i-e9d36d9474f49002-3	Madam President, I would like Tony Haddou has asked me what measures I intend to take to prevent Swedish tax money going to international tech giants engaged in aggressive tax schemes. Joar Forsell has asked me whether it is my position and that of the government that individual companies should be able to be given positive action through measures by the government and how, in such cases, I justify my position. The questions concern the same theme, and I am therefore answering them together. Cross-border trade and foreign investment contribute to higher growth, employment and the exchange of ideas and ideas that develop our society. Right now, we are at the beginning of a digitalization of society and business. Then this type of infrastructure is also important for building new services and companies, which in turn create jobs and contribute to welfare and our competitiveness. One of the tasks of the Council is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. To achieve the goals decided by the Swedish parliament, the government works with general regulations and in some cases support for more jobs and companies. Of the three so-called tech giants the interpellants mention, Facebook has received support for its establishment. In Facebook's case, the previous government granted regional investment aid in 2011, and the Swedish Agency for Growth granted additional funds in spring 2014. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, the establishment, which received regional investment aid of just under SEK 140 million, is estimated to have led to investments of over SEK 4 billion. These are significant investments for Luleå and Norrbotten. Sweden strives for a business environment that is predictable and fair, and e.g. support used is general and regulated. In Swedish law we have general tax rules that apply to everyone. However, in some cases the conditions may differ between sectors or sectors. The lower energy tax on electricity consumption in halls is at the same level as for example for the manufacturing industry. It is a general reduction which is not directed at any specific undertaking. Tax evasion, on the other hand, is international, and international solutions must be found to stop it. Over the last decade, countries have increasingly coordinated within the OECD against international tax evasion and planning. This has proved to be the right model, and the work has been successful. However, there are still issues to be resolved with regard to the digital economy. Then there are countries that are pressing for taxation to move from countries where innovation takes place to large consumer countries. We believe that it is reasonable that the interests of small export-dependent economies should also be exploited, not least in order to promote innovation. We must constantly develop and improve the conditions for strengthening Swedish competitiveness. International competition for investment and skills is very tough. And Sweden, which is a small export-dependent country, uses the support and regulations available to meet foreign competition and secure future jobs. Sweden must remain open to trade and foreign investment.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In view of Aftonbladet's revelations, I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will allow me to doubt who wrote the answer – whether it was Amazon or the Ministry of Enterprise. I'll leave the question hanging. The reason we are having this debate is that three of the government's ministers, led by the Minister for Enterprise, have for a long time appealed to the online giants Amazon, Google and Facebook to establish themselves in Sweden. And not only has the government appealed and fettered, it also has East money in the form of tax rebates and subsidies on American net giants. These are not just any companies, but are among the most valued companies in the world. These are multi-billionaires, the richest men in the world, who have peaked their profits during a global pandemic while ordinary people have become unemployed and had to choose between being able to eat or to pay the rent. And when I say, not just any company, I mean that they have become the largest in the world for two reasons, and here Amazon is a regrettable example. Firstly, they have tax evasion as a business model. The model is to circumvent tax rules, and they loiter hard to get as low tax levels as possible. They hardly pay any tax at all. In Europe, they have managed to reduce their tax rate to between 1% and 2% by channelling the profits into tax havens, even though we say that tax should be paid where value is created and even though it is the workers who create the profits. But that rule doesn't seem to apply to the world's largest company. The Minister for Industry further says that tax evasion is international and that international solutions are needed to stop it. Yes, I think everyone who listens to this debate can figure that out. But the problem is that the Social Democrats are consistently blocking EU proposals against tax evasion. You follow a black list of tax evasion that clears the worst tax havens. That would be a good thing if we had an improvement. Secondly, Amazon renounces all social responsibility in the countries in which it operates. It is a matter of rapidly abolishing job security in order to suck as much money as possible out of those who do the physical job. If we take England as an example, we can see that the ambulance was called 600 times to Amazon during a three-year period but only a few times to competing warehouses. Amazon itself commented that this is still a low figure given the number of hours worked. This means using workers as consumables and allowing taxpayers to bear health and ambulance costs. It is known that there are trackers on their warehouses that follow the movement patterns of the workers and that toilet breaks are clocked so that employees can urinate in pet bottles. This is how a company actively works against trade union organization and uses workers to toil and throw away. Thus: The owners live in economic abundance and the workers in bodies that are no longer able. Is this really a winning model? Does the minister think so? Why is the Minister of Economic Affairs sucking up to these giants who have anti-union policies? They have become the richest men in the world, not by making their money, but by taking money. They have built their empires on the back of people who are not valued. And in what way should the Minister of Economic Affairs stop Amazon's tax evasion – they are channeling their money to Luxembourg? Madam President, I would like In order for the government not to waste even more Swedish tax money or dwindle with this type of company, the Left Party has recently presented a committee initiative. The proposal is for the government to return immediately with a strategy to introduce public country-by-country reporting. Then multinational companies would account for their profits and taxes publicly in Sweden, for there must still be economic justice. Is the Minister for Economic Affairs prepared to introduce this? Please give me an answer today.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-22	Madam President, I would like There is a very left-wing debate here. It's exciting for both of us. I react a little to the answer and to what was the previous government's industrial policy. In this case, it was a question of providing grants to individual companies, individual large companies which, in a free market, could reasonably obtain capital for important investments themselves. Gustav Fridolin, who sat in this government, writes in the newspaper Work. It's a newspaper that I don't usually read, but when Gustav writes I like to read it. He has recently been a little extra sharp, not infrequently against the government. He wrote that the Social Democrats like big things. And of course you recognize a little in that: Social Democrats like big industries and big systems. They want to be able to manage and put with the economy and people in large overall systems that are completely intransvisable. Of course, that's mostly a fantasy. But the Social Democrats like big things. I don't really think there's anything wrong with that. We Liberals do not think there is anything wrong with liking large companies – large, profitable companies that create jobs and prosperity. It's not a problem. But the difference between the Social Democrats and the Liberals is in this case that we also like small businesses. We also think it's good when driven entrepreneurs, innovators and companies come from below with new ideas and new ways to do things and manage to overturn the old, big giants. And sure, Facebook isn't an old giant. But it is obvious that even what Facebook does will be done better by someone else in the future. The problem with the policy that the government pursues when you want to promote big things, as Fridolin described it, is that every penny you give in contributions to one of these big companies has been taken from somewhere else. The tax system works so in Sweden that small companies and enterprising people – entrepreneurs who are driven by their own power – are pushed back by large systems of rules. It's a heavy tax system and a huge regulatory system, and then Ibrahim Baylan takes this money and pokes into some favorite projects. What provokes, Madam President, is that the government seems to have been completely blinded. For sure it's cool with Facebook and Amazon! It's big American giants, and it's a little flashy. I can understand that. But it's just that bnp isn't created in PowerPoint Slides at the Ministry of Enterprise. Bnp is created by ordinary people who work, who create companies, who have an idea and who drive innovation development in this country. It is not created by the government's redeployment and control of the economy. It would be better for Sweden, for Sweden's entrepreneurs and for prosperity – and ultimately for the financing of welfare, as the Social Democrats usually say – to instead lower taxes and allow people's own creative power to drive development. The research institute Ratio has examined, among other things, regional development aid and shown that this is not an effective industrial policy, because it does not lead to more growth than it would otherwise have been. It doesn't lead to work. Sometimes, in recession, it can lead to some single job, but that was not the case when the government pursued its policy. My question remains: on what did the government base its policy?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you to my party colleague Tony Haddou, who raises this important issue! Now I turn to the Government. Even in an interpellation debate, it may be useful to establish what you are, or at least think you are, agreed on. We agree that Sweden is a small, open economy, where international trade, international knowledge exchange and international investment play a major role in development. We also agree that it is good that the government is working actively to create good conditions for Sweden to be a leading industrial and knowledge nation. On the other hand, we seem to disagree on how to look at big corporate giants who are trying to play states against each other. And how will a Swedish government view such things as trade union rights and working conditions? Of course, it is a little more disappointing when it comes to a Social Democratic Minister. For example, Aftonbladet's review, which has been mentioned here, quotes an ombudsman of the Union trade union who says: We've visited them and we've talked to them. But they turn it down and say it's nothing for them. ..................................................... In the case of Amazon, working conditions are something that has been very attentive to the stocks where the company has existed in the past. It has become a whole philosophy of how to squeeze the maximum out of the labour force in a way that goes out over physical and mental health while passing the costs on to the surrounding society. This is something about which articles and books have been written. It is about workers who are unable, for example, to go drinking water, as the Government is now doing. Here in Sweden, two of the leaders of the trade union Seko recently reminded us of this corporate culture and said: alas, in the case of Amazon and its establishment in Sörmland, many politicians' standard answers testify to ignorance. We would like to point out how Amazon behaves in other countries where it is established. Nothing indicates that they want to act differently in Sweden. ..................................................... This is therefore a quote from trade union representatives. You might think that this should get a Social Democratic-led government – if you have high thoughts about that government – to analyse risks, think about counter-strategies and find politically smart approaches to protect the Swedish collective agreement model. Has that been the case? Not really, you have to say. Instead, Ibrahim Baylan, together with the ministerial colleagues Mikael Damberg and Isabella Lövin, have written flattering letters to these very companies and finished with the rather ecstatic exclamation: We are ready for business and are at your service! This is remarkable for many reasons. Many have expressed their concern and, among other trade union representatives, these concerns and pressures on health and safety requirements. It can be noted that Ibrahim Baylan's party partner in Eskilstuna then answers: This is done in Communist dictatorships! I think this suggests a rather strange picture of both the municipal policy in Eskilstuna and the systematic work environment work in communist dictatorships. It will be interesting to hear how this partymate and Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan reason, because I think that the conditions of the labour market in connection with large start-ups in addition to on-the-spot employees also affect entire industries. So these are extremely important issues for the future. It affects what jobs are emerging and how the economy is developing. It basically leaves its mark on the whole of Swedish society. Then it is important, not least for the Swedish trade union movement, to know if you can count on the government to stand on the same side as they do. Or is it the worst case that the government, by being servile and open for business, ends up on the opposite side of the draft struggles that arise? I think it would be important to be able to sort this out today.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-42	Madam President and the Minister. I would like to give a description of the Swedish business community, and I hope that the Minister has the same picture as I have. Swedish business is based on small and medium-sized enterprises. A large majority of private employees today work in a small or medium-sized enterprise. The number of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises is increasing much more than in large enterprises. In addition, SMEs contribute to more than half of Sweden's GDP. That is why I am surprised that the government is going so far in trying to attract these large companies. I am thinking, for example, of the hearing held in the US Parliament on, among other things, Amazon's exploitation of smaller start-ups, where Amazon has simply invested to obtain information that they have subsequently used to set up competing companies. This has meant that companies have been crushed in the process. Facebook was also questioned, due to copying of smaller companies' solutions and how to buy up competitors on the market. Facebook eats up businesses. What does the Minister think these companies will do with Swedish SMEs – companies that make up half of our bnp? In addition, I wonder what the Minister thinks this will do for innovation in Sweden, which is so important – especially for our export trade.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-47	Madam President, I would like Yesterday I had the privilege of going to Sundsvall together with my colleague Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. The reason for this was the many premonitions that have come in Sundsvall. Up to 1 000 people have been given notice of dismissal, mainly at SCA Ortviken. To be told that in the midst of a very deep global crisis, you are at risk of losing your job is serious. It is serious for Sundsvall and for the country but of course most serious for the people concerned. The job isn't just anything. It is not just a livelihood, it is also a context, a sense of being needed. Yesterday we sat down with employers and unions who wanted to meet together, as this is an important part of the Swedish labour market model. We reviewed what we could do together to help people with education to find other jobs. For those who will remain, it is about how we can help each other to move forward within the same company. This is a very important part of the collective agreement model that has made Sweden very successful. It is not just about the sense of justice, but I also think it is very good for competitiveness and for our economy. But it is clear that basically it is also a question of a small, open economy like ours being able to get this type of investment that SCA is now using at the same time as they give notice. Digitalisation, which is the basis of what we are talking about, has begun and has been going on for a few years, and although we think it has gone very far, I think we are only at the beginning of it. It is clear that Sweden should be a country where it is also invested in the infrastructure of digitalisation. Against this background, Madam President, the government has argued and will continue to argue for investment in Sweden. People in Sundsvall, Luleå, Stockholm and Skåne will also need jobs in the future. This job is so incredibly important. It's good for people, and it's good for our welfare. Now there were a number of questions, Madam President, and if only we had endeavoured to read beyond the heading, we could have seen that there are facts that contradict some of them. Take, for example, the attempt by the Left Party to suspect the Social Democrats – something that has been done all these years – in order not to stand up for the Swedish collective agreement model. I have my background as a trade union ombudsman in the Union, where I went around Västerbotten and Norrbotten to argue precisely for the writing of collective agreements. Why? Because it is good for employees, and it is good for companies. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I have contributed to the fact that the state companies now make demands in their ownership policy for collective agreements with subcontractors, because it is good for employees and good for the country. I hear accusations that the previous government has contributed a lot of money to these three net giants. But if Joar Forssell had read the answer properly, he would have seen that the previous government refers to the government in which the Liberals sat. After all, in 2011 we had an alliance government with the Liberals. Madam President, I would like Tax evasion is a nuisance, and we must do our utmost to make it as difficult as possible. The digital economy makes it harder, but we must not shoot ourselves in the foot. The proposals referred to here would shift taxation from small countries such as Sweden, which has a lot of innovation and many large companies, to large consumer countries. We'd lose out on that. We must have fair taxation, but that must not mean that large countries deprive small countries of tax power.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-58	Madam President, I would like It was tax evasion that I mentioned, and of the four minutes, perhaps 15 seconds were spent on tax evasion. One question, however, is unanswered, namely whether Baylan would like to vote in favour of a public country-by-country reporting. Then these giants like Baylan would be publicly showing where they pay their taxes and how much of the profits they send off to Ireland or Luxembourg. It was taken up, and it is incredibly sad when it happens. I think Baylan should think about what jobs are being knocked out and what labour market you create when you bring in companies like Amazon, because while the world's countries are currently discussing how we should tax online giants – Baylan was in on digitalisation – the Social Democrats do exactly the opposite. You're buying lobbyism from big business that doesn't pay taxes. Companies play out states against each other. They come to Sweden but should not pay any tax here. As the world enters into an economic depression and crises intertwine – we are in a deep crisis right now – billions have rolled into the American online giants who continue to make billions of dividends and pay no taxes. Tax evasion is their business model, and the net giants we are talking about now have become so large and rich that they have taken over the world's market share in this industry, in the whole area. I hope the Minister for Economic Affairs understands how domino works: it is a piece that knocks out another piece that in turn knocks out another one. When Baylan sits here and counts on jobs that are established, you also have to count on jobs that are knocked out. When the government counts on tax revenues that come in because people are working, perhaps you should have a column in an Excel file at the Ministry of Enterprise for how much tax evasion costs or for how much tax money disappears when smaller companies are forced to lay down – smaller companies that do right and pay taxes, while Amazon eventually has a monopoly on the market and does not pay any tax. The Minister for Industry addresses Facebook in his reply. They got 140 million from the government, which led to 56 jobs according to Aftonbladet's review. It is over 2.5 million SEK per job. It is very expensive labour market policy. In addition, the company is leading the Panamanian leak in companies that build their business on tax evasion. When it comes to Amazon, the money goes to Luxembourg. For Facebook, the arrangement is not to account for revenue locally but to pass it on to the company's European head office in Ireland. This is also why the Social Democrats must start to see European countries as tax havens. Unfortunately, the government is not doing so today, but both Luxembourg and Ireland are free of the EU's black list of tax havens. The Social Democrats seem to think it's all right; we have digitalisation and then we work internationally on it. But you are blocking the proposals when they come internationally. You blocked the proposals on public country-by-country reporting by last autumn. Now you have another chance. Such an initiative lies with the Swedish Parliament. The issue is raised again in the EU, following the OECD framework. Why do you not vote for public country-by-country reporting so that you can actually see where these companies move their profits and how much they are taxed in the countries where they are? I think Baylan should take a look at that. The question then remains whether Sweden should be a centre for this type of arrangement and agreement, where the big companies take part of everything we have built together in the form of infrastructure, roads, public service and fibre while they give nothing back at all but on the contrary will knock out smaller companies that actually do the right thing and pay taxes.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, may I start by saying! From my perspective, this is about the government's and the government's view of how industrial policy is conducted effectively, based on the examples given in the interpellation. It is also about tax evasion, and I agree that country-by-country reporting would be reasonable, something that the Left Party is pushing very well. Then it is a bit strange to get up in the debate, draw a small anecdote and talk about the crisis that Sweden is in right now. That is not what this is about. It is clear that in a financial crisis there may be a need for support for individual companies, as I said in my first speech. Support that is generally designed to reach those affected by the crisis may be needed. It is something that comes from outside and would not have affected you if it were not just for the crisis. We agree on that. It is part of the January Agreement. It is not something that Ibrahim Baylan has made up all by himself. It is a little strange that the question is not answered, because I believe that we can protect from politics jobs that could have been damaged by the Corona crisis. But I don't really think you create jobs using Powerpoint images at the Ministry of Enterprise or any other tool that Ibrahim Baylan has in his box. On the contrary – jobs had been created entirely regardless of whether it was a social democratic or moderate government or, for that matter, a liberal-led government. Jobs are created because people have driving forces. Individuals drive development through their entrepreneurship and hard work. However, jobs are created to a lesser extent when the Social Democrats build a large system. You like big things that involve many regulations, high taxes and bureaucracy that will channel the money here and there, take from those who build something and give to those who are already big. That way, fewer jobs will be created. Although one can point out that some single job has been created for those crowns, fewer jobs have been created elsewhere. This is because economic development has been curbed by high taxes, i.e. entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs build society and create jobs from below. It is unpleasant with the Social Democratic view of the economy, i.e. that it would be Ibrahim Baylan who creates jobs. The source reported is the Swedish Agency for Growth. I was waiting for Vinnova or any of the state or semi-state parts of the subsidy industry complex to be addressed. The problem is that the Government does not state any basis for government policy that is not an anecdote and that does not mean that someone else receives a contribution by appreciating the system that the Minister likes. Would it not be reasonable for me to highlight academic research, such as economic research, which says that it is inefficient to build a system where a lot of money is taken from tax funds and tries to reallocate in ways you think are good, to respond with something else that is not part of the same system? Of course it should be a question of digitalisation. Everyone here believes in digitalisation. My generation is very digital, but I believe that digitisation will take place regardless of whether the government is contributing to Facebook or not. Broadband will be extended throughout the country, and basic infrastructure will be built, but there is no need to contribute to profitable businesses at the expense of the drive of young entrepreneurs.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-77	Madam President, I would like We are not discussing whether it is good or bad with investments or jobs, for example, or whether collective agreements – fortunately – are good or bad in this discussion. I can certainly congratulate Ibrahim Baylan on a previous certainly successful work as Ombudsman in the Union. However, I do not understand how it dispels the fears that exist today within the trade union movement about the problems I mentioned. I quoted the trade union representatives who are specifically concerned with the establishment that the Minister for Economic Affairs now has only good things to say about. I guess that's where it's squeezed. No one here has expected the Minister for Economic Affairs to chain up outside the headquarters and protest against the existence of the companies. But does the government see the problems that Swedish trade union representatives see before their establishment? Does the government see the problems that other trade union representatives in countries where establishment has taken place in the past have warned against? Is the government prepared to tackle the problems, discuss them seriously and try to stand on the same side as the trade union representatives? Or is the government, unfortunately, blinded, or at least dazzled, by the very effective and well-funded public relations that companies carry out? That is the question we are trying to decide, and unfortunately I have not received such a good answer during this discussion.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-80	Madam President, I would like I hear that the government still prioritises companies such as Amazon, but what does the government think this will mean for, for example, Sweden's overconsumption? What will it mean that prices are being pushed down so that they are forcing small businesses to go bankrupt, while the number of employees is not going to increase? For example, the Minister for Industry mentioned unemployment. This will not lead to more jobs, rather to fewer jobs. Does the government invite giants who will simply reduce the number of employees in Sweden, increase our unnecessary and unsustainable overconsumption and reduce our bnp? Now the Minister may think that over-consumption will rather lead to an increase in GDP, but I hope that the government does not advocate such a development. Moreover, these companies will not contribute with the structure that enables business development, such as building roads, welfare and housing. I would like to thank Tony Haddou for asking the question, and I very much hope that the Minister will respond to the question of country-by-country reporting.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-83	Madam President, I would like Let me take the questions in turn. It is a well-known fact that several of the companies mentioned here are opposed to collective agreements. It is not only stupid from a fair point of view, it is also stupid from an economic perspective. I am absolutely convinced of that. I believe that when you treat your employees in a fair way, when there is a more balanced relationship of power, it also provides a more dynamic economy and a better development of the company. Since I am a strong supporter of the Swedish collective agreement model, I argue for it not only in the Swedish parliament, but also when we meet representatives of these companies and other companies. This has also happened, of course, when we have met representatives of Amazon. It's mixed and given, and I'll be clear that once we've argued for investments in server halls – Facebook, Amazon Web Services, Google and so on – it's just been about this. Amazon's retail establishment takes place without any state aid. When we have met with Amazon's representatives, we have also stressed the importance of writing collective agreements. Even if they refuse, the subcontractor they have chosen collective agreements, which is a good thing. And we'll keep arguing for that. I think we are fairly agreed on this. How should tax evasion be dealt with? We have done our best, step by step, together with other countries in the OECD and in the European Union, to get rid of so-called tax havens. That work is progressing. It has not been long since it was well known that you could hide your money in Switzerland or other tax havens. That work is progressing. Is that enough? No. The very digital economy is a difficult nut to crack, and we must find models together with other countries. Speaking of country-by-country reporting, we already know that they are trying to avoid tax. It is an atrocity, and we are in complete agreement on that. How do we find a solution? We must not be naive here, and I regret to say that I see some naivety in this. Just to squeeze the companies, we must not create models that involve shifting tax money from small countries such as Sweden to large European and global countries. Let me give you an example. Sweden is one of the world's leading innovative countries. Sweden ranks almost always top five – highest in Europe and often top five in the world. In Sweden there are many large companies that export, such as Volvo Trucks. Volvo Trucks export 98% of everything they manufacture in this country. Should the principle of where to levy taxes be changed, taken out where consumption takes place, Swedish taxpayers will lose billions after billions of dollars of tax power being moved to other countries. We don't want that. Yes! We must continue to work on getting to grips with this evil that tax evasion is, but we must not create models that mean an even greater injustice to small countries like Sweden and others. Then I just have to answer Joar Forssell, because his whole question is based on the assumption that the Social Democratic-led government has contributed to any of these net giants. In his interpellation, he writes, "Maybe that's why Aftonbladet's series of articles about how the Social Democraticly led government used tax funds in the 100 million class to try to attract a number of large American companies does not surprise. We have not done that, but it was the bourgeois government – where the Liberals sat – that did it. That's what I was trying to point out.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-92	Madam President, I would like It's good that Baylan raises the importance of collective agreements, but when companies like Amazon still plan to bring in almost half of the staff on staffing, there's a little more that Baylan needs to do. I also find it a little strange that Baylan tells us, for example, that we have a strong job internationally. I have just made clear how the Baylan Government is blocking all proposals to combat tax evasion. In fact, Baylan even cites Switzerland as an example. Not even a year ago, the Minister of Finance removed Switzerland from the EU's black list of tax havens. You talk about mischief and so on, Baylan, but your government makes this possible. Your government is making tax evasion possible! That is the problem in this debate. Moreover, I think that this whole flair for the online giants shows the extent to which the lobbyists of the business community are directing the political agenda. Unfortunately, this also applies to tax matters, in particular the fight against tax evasion. If this process is allowed to continue, Swedish democracy, which according to the form of government is based on the principle that all public power in Sweden is based on the people, will soon be a thing of the past. Apparently, there is more listening to Amazon. If what we have raised about labour market policy measures does not get a warning bell from a social democrat, we are really in trouble. To illustrate how serious it is in countries where Amazon establishes itself, I have brought with me a bottle of water, which I now hold up. Maybe you should try the Ministry of Enterprise. Maybe you should start clocking the pee breaks and start walking around with a water bottle like this under the suits. That is what is happening in the countries in which Amazon is located: you watch toilet breaks. Over a three-year period, an ambulance has arrived at Amazon's warehouse 600 times. Doesn't that ring a bell at the Ministry of Enterprise?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-96	I would remind the honourable Member that we do not usually use props in the speaker's chair.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-97	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank you for your reply. I have to tell you, one thing is a little strange. I understand that when you as a minister are to answer an interpellation and get many questions is easy to twist and turn the words, but I have always been critical of this kind of politics. It does not matter to me who grants subsidies to companies that do not need grants or who has too high taxes on small companies. It's kind of irrelevant. My question is about the Government's view of this type of policy, and that issue has consistently been ducked by the Government. Madam President, I would like Baylan highlights that Sweden is one of the most innovative countries in the world. It's fantastic and great, but maybe I don't think it's us we should be proud of in this. Rather, it is the entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and innovators who make up the innovation power that we should be proud of. I am not going to take credit for that; it is these people, with their own driving forces, who are creating the innovations. The problem, however, is that our large systems of rules and heavy taxes make these innovations far too rarely become real companies, real services or real products. They could have been if instead of pumping out money, spreading it here and there and thinking that one should be able to control the economy had had less taxes and fewer regulations. Can't you stop sucking up to these big, cool giants and make sure that entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and innovators – as Baylan himself says he likes – can grow from below? It would create real bnp and real jobs, not those created in Powerpoint at the Ministry of Enterprise or at any of the meetings that Baylan attends with any of the other actors in the subsidy industry complex.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-101	Madam President, I would like I think whoever's watching this over TV is easily confused. In fact, the Swedish Government always argues for investment in our country. It provides economic development, and economic development leads to better welfare in our country. The reason I point out that it was the bourgeois-led government – the alliance government, which included the Liberals – that took this decision is that the whole interpellation assumes that it was the Social-Democratic-led government that did so. I think it was a good decision. Why? Well, for a very simple reason: It was a grant of 140 million, but the investment it gave in a part of the country that has not seen that type of large investment in a very long time – outside Luleå – was 4 – 4 1⁄2 billion SEK. It provides economic development. It will be built and delivered with more services, making it a completely different dynamic than if there is no investment. Madam President, I would like We're in a very difficult time. In this difficult time, many people today are told that they can lose their job or have lost it. Then it is our duty and responsibility to do our utmost to ensure that we get investment and thus more jobs in our country, so that people have a job to go to. No, we must not be naive – some of these companies have the fundamental idea of opposing collective agreements. That's wrong. Trying to tax evasion is also wrong. Both of these things we should continue to argue against, along with unions and the employers in our country who also like collective agreements. We must be able to keep both of these thoughts in mind at the same time: to argue for investment in our country and, at the same time, to ensure that it is done in a fair way. We are not there yet, but there must be no doubt that we will continue to do both.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-105	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether I and the government intend to invest in increased language and skills development for nurses in health care and care for the elderly. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked what I and the government intend to do to ensure that those working in the care of the elderly have secure employment and a higher professional status. Finally, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked what I and the government are going to do to make men look more for the profession of nurse. The main responsibility for the quality of the Swedish elderly care lies with the municipalities as heads of both own and private activities. The new coronavirus has revealed shortcomings in care and care for the elderly. Among other things, it has become clear that staff must be better placed to perform their work safely and that skills need to be strengthened. It is essential for the quality of care for the elderly that employees can communicate with the elderly. The subject Swedish has already been included as a compulsory subject in upper secondary school care programmes. In particular, the expertise of the nurse is important for the safety of care and care for the elderly. A special investigator was appointed in autumn 2017 and submitted proposals in spring 2019 to introduce a protected professional title for the profession of assistant nurse. Such a regulation, assessed by the investigator, will clarify both what the profession entails and what knowledge is needed to work as a nurse. An additional basis on competence requirements and transitional rules is currently in the process of being consulted until 10 October this year. The state supports municipalities through several different initiatives. In order to raise skills directly, the Government will also finance the Elderly Care Lift in 2020 and 2021. The initiative aims to strengthen competence in municipally funded care and care for the elderly and covers approximately SEK 2.2 billion. In addition, new figures have now arrived, which have been presented in connection with the draft budget, so now it is for 2021 as much as SEK 3.4 billion. We can come back to that in the discussion. The elderly care lift provides an opportunity for staff to train as a nurse or a nurse on paid working hours. The studies include courses in Swedish. SKR and Kommunal have agreed that those employed within the framework of the Elderly Care Lift will be offered an open-ended full-time employment. Here, too, I would like to add that an increase in resources in 2021 will enable this target group to be broadened. In addition, the state spends SEK 54 million in 2020 on regional vocational adult education in health and long-term education. In addition, the Folkhögskolan has received SEK 50 million in 2020 for an extension of general and vocational education, with emphasis on educations in health and social care. The substantive agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states that opportunities to learn Swedish at work will be strengthened. Another measure is that the Government appointed a national coordinator in autumn 2019 to promote sustainable skills provision within the operations. The coordinator will support municipalities by, among other things, stimulating change work for a more attractive working environment, strengthening leadership and proposing welfare solutions that can relieve the workforce. Within the framework of the mandate, the coordinator shall also support and initiate change work in order to enable the retention and recruitment of personnel. The directive to the coordinator explicitly states that this applies to both men and women, as the recruitment base would be broadened if a larger number of men applied to the profession.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-113	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Lena Hallengren for her excellent answer. Of course, it is gratifying that the government is making an extensive effort, although it could not be enough for everything that has been for almost two decades. Elderly care has been very neglected. During the pandemic, there has been a catastrophic situation in the care of the elderly, which has created further serious debate on the backwardness of care for the elderly. Some have drawn simple conclusions that this disaster would have happened because of a lot of immigrant women and men whose Swedish is poor. It is only unfortunate in this debate. It is clear that Swedish is important, but working conditions and wages are equally important – for example, full-time employment and not part-time employment. During this debate I was contacted. Many of my friends and people in my own family work in the care of the elderly. I myself have experience from working at service housing in Västerås during my studies at Komvux, and when I studied at the university, I worked in Botkyrka's home care service. When I was in Västerås, my Swedish was not great, because I was new. I couldn't share the same joy with the older ones when I came in. Almost every time I didn't want to leave the older ones, because the conversation went so well. I myself was experienced and a little older, but it was also – above all – about having time to listen to them. Sometimes they didn't want you to clean; they rather wanted you to make coffee with them and to sit down and talk or walk. The good old days are 20 years ago – they do not exist today. Today, most people are closer to their mobile phone than to the elderly – it's always next and next. At the beginning of the pandemic, there were also no rules for the elderly to see a doctor or nurse. My friends and acquaintances, who come from Eritrea and Latin America to Kurdistan and Turkey, tell me that they have a lot of stress and pressure. The result is that you feel bad yourself, and that the elderly get sick and need more care when the situation is as it has been for all the people in this country and around the world, not least for the elderly. Investments are good, but there is also a need to make working conditions and wages much better. Those who work part-time today or who have worked hours for years must be given full-time employment in order to make them feel safe in their work. The development of the profession also makes it possible to learn Swedish better. Education is always good, and it should be ongoing.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-120	Madam President, I would like I thank you very much for setting up the interpellation. I myself lacked the welfare and care of the elderly in yesterday's party leader debate. Clearly, there was no time to talk about this, even though we are still in the midst of a pandemic. I agree with a great deal of what Amineh Kakabaveh says about the need to make structural changes and improvements in care for the elderly. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise that it is important that we do not generalise, as with all activities. After all, there were many parts of elderly care that worked very well at the beginning of the pandemic. There were accommodations that didn't get infected. There were also accommodations that got infected but where you handled it very well. Work methods have been found. Right at the beginning it was a new virus, and no one really knew how to behave. However, I would like to emphasise that over 100 000 people have been trained. They have taken courses in basic hygiene practices and in building routines in the business. It has also been about introductory trainings, as extra staff who have not had a long experience have to be brought in. The health inspection went in and reviewed and continued its work to ensure that all matters have been handled correctly. Of 1,700 retirement homes, 91 have been moved forward, where people do not feel confident that the individual assessment has been carried out. This means that it can look different and that the criticism will be able to look different, but we will of course learn from this. I do not think that the question is just about the coronapndemin. I think it is important to say that we have done a lot over the years, although as Minister of Social Affairs, of course, I think we can do even more. I am pleased with the support and response that is now available. Since 2014, the resources for well-being have increased, and the number of employees has increased to 100,000. In part, this has gone to care for the elderly, but now it is even greater resources that should go specifically to care for the elderly. On the other hand, it is up to the organisation to decide whether resources should go to pay, conditions, working hours or skills development. Is it that the municipality needs to build new ones? Where do the resources make the best use of the local conditions? I think this is going to play a very big role. I think we're going to see a difference. Hopefully, for example, we can see an end to shared tours. There is not much left of this, but I think that the rest that we see really should be worked away. If it has been a resource issue, it should no longer exist. I will use a minute to tell you how important it is to understand each other in the activities; I have done so many times. One thing is, of course, that you have the necessary skills. You cannot step into the care of the elderly and think that it is enough to step in with two hands, but to step in with both heart and brain. You should know what you're doing, and you should understand what you're doing and why you're doing it. I am absolutely convinced that it will be noticed among colleagues when many more are trained and examined as nurses. The relatives will also notice, and, of course, those who live in a special dwelling or who have home care will notice when they meet an even better - equipped person. Having the skills to be a nurse and being able to do the nursing profession itself is one thing. Another important part is to be able to communicate with your colleagues and with your boss, to hand over when the passport is over, to be able to communicate with a patient who in many ways needs to be given special consideration when it comes to how you formulate and to be able to communicate with relatives who wonder what it really is like. The elderly care lift is about becoming a nurse. This includes having the required competence in Swedish.
i-2z7TgHZtAok1SxL5bSHiW2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Lena Hallengren, for the report! There are many different parts that are connected to ensure that you have better working conditions for those who provide care and satisfied patients. Of course, training in language, skills development, wages, safer working conditions and less stress are linked to the care you give, if it is given with empathy and also with care for each other, because you are so close to people when working with the elderly. It's actually a very heavy job. I myself know how heavy it is, and it is for many women, both with Swedish background and with immigrant background, who unfortunately have lower education for some reason. Most of the people who work there enjoy their profession quite well. But they also tell us that it is very difficult for them to assert themselves and say that they want to attend, for example, an education. And the unions do not always exist for them, for most are not unionized. There are different reasons for that. They have not worked in their home country, and if you have worked it is not in a democratic country like Sweden, where you have unions that back you up and can represent you in different conflicts. That's why this bet is so important. Let's not brag that we're betting now. That's good, but there's actually a lot that's being cut down. In this context, I would like to mention the debate on LAS and that there will be fewer working conditions for hundreds of thousands of women, particularly in the areas of health and social care. There are many women who have the heavy weight of work in both child care and care for the elderly. Here we talk mostly about care for the elderly, which is extremely important. There should be no need for a pandemic in order for us to speed things up. The financial effort must be long-term and continue every year. As I said, more employees are needed. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Government about the welfare technical solutions to be reviewed by an investigator or coordinator. Well-being solutions can mean different things. This can mean that you are more efficient, that there is more stress and that you become like a digital device. A person cannot work in this way, but needs more time, more resources, more security at work, better wages, good skills and more staff to meet the needs of the elderly. Good and safe work is to be done, which is needed in that sector. I want to know what the proposals on welfare technologies mean.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-137	Madam President, I would like Well, I'll be happy to come back to welfare technology. It is an example of many where we have had an investigation and where proposals are being prepared, and they were launched long before the pandemic. I will come back to the last parliamentary term, when efforts were also made. There were investments in more staff, in education and in welfare. At the end of the day, each municipality must make a choice and put the resources where they are most needed. I'd be happy to continue that discussion. I'm on the side of the Elders in that case. When it comes to the full-time journey, a lot has happened since they finally decided to enter the right to full-time in collective agreements. All of a sudden, those who work in the care of the elderly are getting something to really take off from. Safe employment is important, permanent employment is important and a salary to be able to live on is important. But it is also important to have the opportunity to continuously develop skills. After all, those who began caring for the elderly 25 to 30 years ago met other groups of the elderly in part. We know that dementia is on the increase. We also know that the person who is going to care for a person with a dementia can not only come in and be two hands, as I said in my previous speech, but it is really about understanding that the competence you possess or have to gain is absolutely crucial to understand what it is like to care for a person who has a disease, as dementia is. Well-being technology is incredibly interesting. I also think it is a good or a bad example, depending on how you choose to see it, of the inequality of, among other things, the care of the elderly. Had it been a male-dominated business, welfare technology had dominated that business for decades. But that's not the way it is, but until now it's written on small notes, you have big knacks to go and get before you go to a new user. What is welfare technology is that you have this on your mobile phone and you don't have to travel unnecessarily. I think security cameras are amazing. It is a pity, not to say a little sad, that we have not managed to speak them home to the group of older people. It's getting better now. I find it hard to see that it would feel like a restriction in privacy, freedom and co-determination if someone comes at night, opens the door, steps in and looks at you when you sleep. But I think quite a lot of people actually prefer to turn on a small camera so that the staff can see if the person is in their bed. You can also have a carpet on the floor, where you can see it when you get up and when you go to bed. You can have security alarms on your arm. All of that is welfare technology. You can have a robot that can help you eat, instead of someone sitting and feeding you. You may live in a relationship and you don't want your partner to feed you, but you want to eat food together. You don't want anyone from the home service on site either. So there are really so many benefits from welfare technology. I think that it should be seen as an opportunity for staff to really use their skills where it is most needed, where the heart, brain and hands are needed and where people are needed to think and reflect on what is the best effort. But it is also a matter of integrity and self-determination for the elderly to have no one in the toilet when instead you have a self-winding toilet or that those who can it can actually shower themselves with the help of a robot. At a certain stage of life, you are so fragile and so sick that you need help there too. But I think we should see welfare technology as something that helps both staff and relatives. Above all, it helps the elderly themselves to have as independent a life as possible. The investigation was presented at the end of February. For understandable reasons, it did not receive the attention it should have received. But we are also working on these issues.
i-6N7J2gLDQ92KVFfVavpm6e	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the explanation of welfare technology! It is of course important that this part of care is also developed. But hopefully it will be individually adapted and not allow a robot to replace the human contact and human needs that everyone has when you get older. When I worked in care for the elderly, I wanted everyone to work in care for the elderly at some point, because it's about us and our family. It is important to have a person close, and the elderly generally feel a distance from different types of technology. It is therefore important to have more staff, more nurses and carers who have time and are trained. The elders have created this country, and it's because of the people we live. Therefore, we will provide them with good and dignified care for the elderly with safety and integrity. I understand what the Government means by developing technology. But the human resource is always so important when we work with people. I speak from my own experience. There are also those who tell me that we should give the opportunity to the women who did not get the chance but who today provide the most important care to our elderly and fragile. It is therefore important to invest in them and their salaries. I hope that the Government can answer: if this with LAS goes through, will it affect their conditions even more? Are they going to break out and become competitors? That wouldn't be good.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-150	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you for the opportunity to speak in this House about elderly care and the human dignity of the elderly! It's really needed. We have for some time stressed that we are facing major challenges in recruiting a lot of new staff and also doing our very best to retain existing staff – because experience is important and plays a major role. In nte at least those who are new need colleagues who have been involved and know routines and make it easier to get into work. When I meet staff in care for the elderly and home care, I am impressed. These people have great respect for the elderly and are sensitive to their needs. They're professional, but they're also human. Of course, they should continue to have a great deal of support. It was therefore a little sad that yesterday's party leader debate was not allowed to deal with elderly care. But we'll have to take other opportunities. Let me conclude by saying that large resources have been added, but not as large resources as we now see. That is why I also have high expectations of what will happen in the care of the elderly around our country. It is about getting rid of shared tours and about the full-time journey that has begun. It is about enabling many who do not have a nurse's training to get it, and now they will get it on paid working hours. In addition, they will be given permanent employment. The resources are about educational opportunities but also about doing much else. I know there are different needs in different municipalities. Let us highlight everything that is happening today and is positive in the care of the elderly and what is going to happen! Welfare technology is an exciting part, and it may provide increased resources for increased welfare technology here as well.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-155	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damsgaard has asked me what measures I have taken to strengthen the security of the State Departmental Council's youth home and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the sanction of closed youth care can be implemented in a satisfactory manner. First of all, I would like to say that the armed release that took place at Råby Youth Home and mentioned by Mikael Damsgaard is a very serious incident. In the preparatory work on the regulation of closed youth care (prop. In 1997/ 98:96), it was noted, among other things, that the activities carried out by Sis have a broad experience of work with young people who are eligible for detention and that in recent years units with a particularly high level of supervision have also been created to enable the most care and supervision-demanding young people to be taken care of. However, the reality is that the escalation of gang violence is also reflected among the young people detained. The safety of special youth homes is a very important issue for the government. The government and the cooperation parties have earlier this year made large additions to Sis. In the spring change budget, the agency's funding was increased by SEK 250 million, among other things to strengthen security at Si's special youth home. The violence capital shown by gang-criminal youth means that the State Department Board needs to work purposefully with the security-enhancing work on several fronts, and I therefore welcome the security work carried out by the Director-General of the Authority. The safety work was also particularly emphasised by the government in the latest regulatory letter from the Authority. Security must not be compromised. At the same time, the rights of the convicted need to be respected. D is the National Board of Institutional Affairs itself, which decides on restrictions on the right to use electronic communications services. This under the Act (1990:52) with special provisions on the care of young people, LVU, and lgen(1998:603) on the enforcement of closed youth care.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-159	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for its answer. On 19 August, two young men from Råby youth homes outside Lund were released through gun threats against personnel. The released men, aged 18 and 19, were sentenced to closed juvenile care for murder and attempted murder. We see a social development where crime creeps further down in the ages. Younger and younger children are being recruited by criminal gangs where minors sometimes also account for very serious crime. Over the past ten years, the number of young people suspected of crimes such as murder and attempted murder, gun crimes, drug offences and rape has increased. This is a very worrying development. Johanna Bäckström Lerneby describes in her very readable report book The Family how a criminal clan rules in the Gothenburg suburb Angered. From the same Angered we are reached by information on how criminal groupings set up roadblocks to check who is moving in the area. Police intervention against offences is subject to threats and pressure. Deputy Chief of Police Mats Löfving described in Ekot's Saturday interview that there are about forty family-based criminal clans where children are raised into crime. Those who have followed the issue testify that the culture of silence in these networks is monumental. It is against this background that we must understand the armed release on 19 August and the other rescues that have been carried out in the near future by people sentenced to closed juvenile care. When gang crime and people with high violence capital enter youth homes, a completely different focus on security is needed from what has been the case so far. Because as things stand, safety seems to be seriously flawed. It is to be welcomed that the Authority has now received a Director-General who has drawn attention to the shortcomings and has begun to take action. However, the government's capacity to act seems to be more limited. Increased funding is of course welcome, but we should remember that these SEK 250 million will also be enough to significantly reduce the fees to the municipalities. How much remains to strengthen security is not reflected in the Government's response. The Government also states that the safety work is particularly emphasised by the Government in the latest regulatory letter of the Authority. I think that it may therefore be in place to read out what is in the paragraph on health and safety in the regulatory letter. The State Department Board shall report how the Authority follows up reported incidents in order to ensure a safe environment for both clients and staff regardless of gender. The State Department Board shall also report on how the Authority ensures that incident reporting is carried out in an equivalent and fair manner within the various activities and across the country. ..................................................... To be honest, I find it difficult to understand how a letter of regulation to an authority responsible for those serving the sentence in closed youth care can place less emphasis on security than this regulatory letter does.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-171	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Damsgaard for the interpellation. If Mikael Damsgaard wants to have a general criminal policy discussion and discuss raised and tightened sentences or penitentiary efforts, I assume that he will put that interpellation to one of the ministers at the Ministry of Justice. But of course I am discussing Sis, and I think there is every reason to do so. Let me begin by saying that the Authority has not received a new Director-General. The government has appointed a new Director General. Very consciously, Elisabeth Åbjörnsson Hollmark has been recruited from former Deputy at the Prison Service. There is, of course, a thought to that. We see a very great need to tighten up the security work, just against the background I described in my reply and as Mikael Damsgaard describes. We have a harsh social climate and gang crime, and it's crawling down in our ages. It's another clientele, if I may use that expression. This does not apply to all young people who are cared for with the support of LVU and who are placed in a Sis home, but to a smaller part. I really want to say this, because there are, of course, many young people in Sis-hem today who may feel that they are included in this discussion. There are about seventy of us talking about who are convicted by the LSU and who serve their sentence in a Sis home. We need to tighten up security, and that's why Mikael Damsgaard referred to the last budget, at which point there was 250 million in addition, of which 10 million which the Agency estimated could be translated into safety promotion work during this year. Then we are working on a budget which I cannot comment on at present and which affects and tells us what the Agency has for the coming years. This is important. These are both security-enhancing measures, which I think we can see before us, such as perimeter protection, and what exists in some institutions and institutions and which I believe we would all experience provides a high level of security. But it's needed on more of them. We are talking about groups and constellations of young people who may not be in the same place. You just have to split up. This is an important piece of work. It is also about the competence of those who are to treat, care for and ensure that young people have the opportunity to serve their sentences in these institutions. Of course, it is incredibly traumatic for personnel to be exposed to weapons threats. It's not about just being lax and letting someone walk around. Of course, being exposed to threats of arms as a staff requires a lot afterwards, and we do not want any staff to end up in such a situation. It is therefore about physical changes, management and control, competence and that staff should be able to meet much more difficult situations than they have previously done within the framework of Sis.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-180	Madam President, I would like Of course, being sentenced to closed juvenile care is a severe punishment for the young person. But it can also provide an opportunity to break with destructive behaviour, to be motivated to leave the criminal networks and, not least, to complete an often inadequate schooling that these young people have brought with them. A prerequisite for this success is, of course, that the activity is drug-free and that the young person is not constantly affected by destructive contacts outside the institutions. Sometimes these contacts are just their own family. As a natural consequence of the escapes, the issue of fences and shell protection around the plants has been much discussed. It is important and was also touched upon in the Government's response. However, the way in which operations are conducted also has a significant impact on safety and security. Trade unions within the National Board of Institutional Affairs are testifying to an increasingly tough environment in youth homes. The incidence of drugs is increasing and the number of incidents of threats and violence is also increasing. This picture is confirmed by the Authority's own reporting. In youth care, the number of incidents involving threats and violence against staff has increased by 22 per cent between 2017 and 2019. During the same period, the number of incidents between young people has increased by as much as 47%. ST's union chairman at Sis writes in Svenska Dagbladet on 31 August how the situation has deteriorated in recent years, not least due to legislative changes that, in some respects, have limited the staff's ability to maintain a safe and secure environment in the institutions. Keeping drugs outside the institutions, as I mentioned, is crucial for the success of the operation. This work has, according to ST, been made more difficult by the staff's powers to perform visits and to require that the kid leaves urine samples have been limited. Increased access to mobile phones and the Internet also increases the risk of diversions, discharges and the introduction of drugs. It is true, as the Government stated in its reply, that the Authority itself decides on restrictions on the right to use electronic communications services. The concern is that under current legislation, the Authority needs to make individual assessments every 14 days, which in itself is very laborious and difficult for the Authority to cope with. It may also be sufficient for a single person in a department to have access to a mobile phone so that even individuals who are not entitled to it can maintain destructive contacts. As I see it, it is clear that this regulation needs to be reviewed. I now come back to what the ST union chairman at Sis wrote in Svenska Dagbladet: a few years ago, borderline and clear structure was a matter of course at the SIS youth home; it was part of giving young people the tools to get on the right foot and work in society. The treatment assistant who talks today about the need for a clear structure and limitation risk being seen as less suitable for the job. [...] It seems to have become more important to be friends with the young people than to be a borderline adult. .....................................................
i-e9d36d9474f49002-190	Madam President, I would like There is much in this that I agree with. I usually say that you would sometimes have one of those buttons that you agree with the speaker when you stand in the speaker's chair. There are a lot of problems, and I'm not trying to hymn it. Nor does the Director-General, who not only has a great many proposals, but has already initiated a work that is being done. As Mikael Damsgaard said, some of the changes require us to investigate and change the legislation. I think this is a very good example, or a very bad example – how to say it now. It is a fact that today it is possible to limit electronic communications, but it should be assessed individually every 14 days. There are aspects to this. On the one hand, one might think that the possibility should be limited, but on the other hand, it is, just like Mikael Damsgaard himself was on, so that there is a will and a task to try to rehabilitate back and find the right way to draw the line that allows the kid to have the right contacts but not the wrong contacts. This is indeed a lamentable piece of work. This is partly linked to the competence of the staff – that you feel that you know what applies – and a collective culture of authority. None of us agree that you should be friend rather than borderline, but basically it is a profession. You really need to feel that the knowledge you have is enough for the difficult balance to make. But very briefly: it is clear that we need to look at the issue of electronic communications. It's absolutely active, I can say. Pending that, the Authority must use existing powers. This is important to say. In fact, even if you may find it complicated, if you see the need, you can tell a whole department that even if they themselves may not use the phone, the padden or what it is about for a purpose, there is a clear risk that others will do so, that they may be exposed to the group's composition and that for 14 days they may not have it either. This takes a lot of work, and every 14 days you should try it again. The possibility exists, and it is important that it is used. However, both the Government and the Director-General have identified this problem. I am a little unsure whether Mikael Damsgaard is in or has access to the meetings of the Social Affairs Committee, as they are digital. The Director-General visited there not long ago and gave his picture. If Mikael Damsgaard himself has the opportunity to visit a Sis institution or similar, I think this is important to get a good picture. There is active work, but it takes time. It's an extensive operation. There are 23 institutions around the country, and again: some of them have a great need for the security-enhancing elements, to really make sure that they change, develop and follow the unfortunately tragic development that we have with increasing violence capital. There are also institutions that have other challenges to ensure that young people who are placed there have a chance of a better future. I am pleased that Mikael Damsgaard talks about how important it is for them to receive care and treatment. Nevertheless, we must hope and believe that they have an opportunity for a different future. With this, it will be important to think about preventive measures and so on, so that the new recruitment that happens all the time when someone is picked from one of the gangs or a context of high crime does not continue. It fills up, so we have many challenges. But now the discussion is about Sis. There is a regulatory letter and a new Director-General. It is about money and security-enhancing measures, and there are many other things that we will see in the near future.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-200	Madam President, I would like I sit on the Committee on Justice and I follow sanctions with great interest in various ways. I have visited several prisons and Sis youth homes and have seen a lot of interesting things there. As we have been aware, we are living in a new reality where minors increasingly commit very serious crimes, and these crimes often occur within criminal networks. It is clear that the rule of law in the broad sense is not able to respond adequately to this. We Moderates see that the penalty system for young people who commit crimes needs to be developed on a number of points. Perhaps much more lies on the justice side. It is about being able to impose longer sentences in the form of closed juvenile care. For gross criminal youths, perhaps the kind of Sis youth home that we have today is not the right place. Instead, consideration should be given to special youth prisons with a significantly increased level of security in order to cope with this particular group. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate and ask the Minister for Social Affairs if she considers these very youth homes to be appropriate in the future to deal with this target group – grossly criminal young people.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-204	Madam President, I would like In fact, I did not know that Mikael Damsgaard was a member of the Committee on Justice. Of course, I should have checked that. But I am pleased that he also has the perspective of prevention. Sis is a place where you're supposed to serve a sentence that you've been given. At the same time, we must not give up on young people. I will answer the question as to whether we believe that this will be enough and whether the Sis homes will be sufficient. With the security-enhancing measures being taken with the necessary skills development, with changes in communication and other things, I think we will go very far. The question then is, rather, what is the difference between what the Moderates would call juvenile prisons and a Sis institution adapted with a lot of security-enhancing measures. The ambition is, of course, to be able to cope with this group. That's the task that Sis has – it's not a question to ask yourself – and you should be able to handle it. I would like to stress how important it is that we not only have dialogue in this House, but also that Sis has a very close dialogue with the Prison Service and with the Police Authority to ensure that we cooperate and learn from each other. As this creeps down at the age and another form of violence has been introduced into Sis homes, there is a great need and a great exchange for dialogue with the prison services. Sometimes it is also a matter of borrowing staff and making sure that you really take impressions. Correctional services have, of course, come further in the security-enhancing work and have even more professional expertise in this area right now. But Sis is going there too.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-207	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to clarify the regulatory framework so that it covers all persons belonging to the risk group and have LSS operations, whether it is the state or the municipality that pays for the efforts. As I have already replied to the questioner, on 25 June 2020 the Government decided that persons at risk, certain relatives and parents of recently seriously ill children, who are totally or partly giving up gainful employment in order to avoid infection by covid-19, should be entitled to compensation. The new provisions have been developed in close dialogue with the Riksdag. The decision is based on an agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-210	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This interpellation is literally about life and death. It is about the survival of those who are the weakest in society. It is about the right and duty of parents to protect the weakest in society, i.e. children, young adults or adults who live in family communities and who have a multi-functional disability or disability, so that they can survive a pandemic. That is what this interpellation is about. Everyone knows the background. The government was quick to raise the unemployment fund for fully healthy and others. However, the Riksdag struggled with an announcement in the spring to ensure that there would be compensation for risk groups at all. Finally, as the Government said, the Government followed the announcement of the Riksdag and introduced a compensation system. It was done in such a way as to say that people are entitled to compensation from 1 July but that they can apply from 24 August. The money will be paid out sometime this fall, but we don't know when. I'm sure the government doesn't believe in a moderate Member of Parliament. But what does RBU say, and what does FUB say? What do the organizations representing parents who have severely ill children say? I don't know if the government reads Aftonbladet. On Monday, however, the RBU had a debate article entitled We are tired, angry, sad and frustrated to be repeatedly overlooked by our politicians and authorities. Not just on this issue. ..................................................... The article gives examples, and there I am so surprised by the government's response. It says: a financial allowance must also be paid to parents who stay at home with healthy children with disabilities, just as for other relatives. ..................................................... According to the Government's reply, she believes that compensation is paid to parents who must be at home with disabled children. I don't know if the government usually reads on FUB's website. It is an organization that organizes families with special needs. That's exactly where you say the same thing.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-219	People with multiple disabilities are completely dependent on other people and live close to and with their relatives. This applies to all family members of the household community, whether they work as personal assistants or not. The proximity and support of a person with multiple disabilities do not stop because a relative is not a personal assistant. ..................................................... The next item, on which my interpellation and my previous written question are concerned, is: The compensation covers only persons granted state assistance, which excludes persons who have municipal assistance. The narrow remuneration rules have serious consequences for people with disabilities who have already been severely affected by difficulties in receiving state assistance compensation. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This means, then, that if a child has government assistance, you get risk group benefit. Therefore, if a child with a similar disease picture has municipal assistance, you do not receive risk group compensation. But, Madam President, I am absolutely sure that covid-19 does not distinguish between what LSS compensation is paid – whether it is state or municipal. It's the disease that the children are supposed to be protected from, isn't it?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-225	Madam President, I would like I gave a brief answer because there was really no difference between a written answer to a question and an interpellation answer. However, there is of course the possibility of dialogue in an interpellation debate. I don't want to go in too much polemic with Lars Beckman. I realise that this has been a very difficult situation, and it is still a difficult situation. Although the whole tone of the pandemic has somehow fallen away in the political debate, there are, of course, people who are still living with the yoke and concern about this. At the same time, I think it may be reasonable to give the right description of reality in the Minutes. The government and parliament had the same ambi-tion. One should not underestimate the speed at which we basically introduced a new social security benefit in the midst of a pandemic. It happened very quickly, and it started with the National Board of Health and Welfare defining risk groups. Risk groups were defined among working people, because that was the mission. Children generally do not belong to any risk groups, but children at individual level can – of course in dialogue with doctors and others – be considered to be particularly vulnerable. Again: I have no new news to give to Lars Beckman or to anyone who listens to the debate. I realise the dilemma, I do, but I would also like to say that the reason why there was somewhere a delimitation was that it was defined as the one with extensive needs, which is seen as state aid. It has been discussed many times, and I am aware that there are shortcomings in it as well. I have no other information to give to Lars Beckman or anyone else today.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-229	Madam President, I would like I would like to quote Maria Persdotter, whom the Government has probably met many times, not least in the former role of Head of Communication in the Workers' Movement: Here and now we see no end to the Coronaeland and for many RBU families new problems arise now that the schools have started again. There are still no recommendations for children with extensive disabilities and respiratory problems. The authorities still believe that children can never belong to a risk group precisely because they are children. However, children who need breathing help in the form of various machines even in their healthy condition, those children are at risk. Risk group for seasonal influenza, risk group for different viruses, even in the case of an ordinary cold. Last spring, RBU had a debate article published in Svenska Dagbladet, where we demanded a round-up for children with extensive physical disabilities. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This question is about life and death. This question may be about a girl who has a breathing machine 24 hours a day and who dies if she gets covid-19. She'll die if she gets covid-19. It should be the prime concern of the State Council in such a serious social situation to begin by protecting the weakest. Start by protecting those who need society's safety net most of all: those who are dependent on not getting covid-19 because they basically know that then it is over. This has been solved by parents in many different ways. There are families on leave if they've managed to fix it. You try to solve it in every way. But I am concerned when the Government says that she has no word to give. Does this mean that the government is not working on the issue? Does this mean that the Government does not take seriously the concerns of RBU and FUB, along with all the families involved? A lot of people are expecting a message. Has the Government understood the absurd difference? Here we have a person who has lost his state assistance allowance. We know the consequences of the regulation letter 2016 when thousands of people with high care needs were thrown out of the state LSS compensation. Since these people still have the same needs, municipalities have been given a great deal of responsibility. The Government is well aware of that. Then the next insult comes. Those who were thrown out of the state LSS compensation now get the next humiliation when they can't belong to the risk group. Can the Government imagine what it's like to have a baby or a young adult like this? Of course, parents feel a great responsibility to protect their child from a serious illness. And so they get the next mockery, namely, that the Government says I have no new news to give to you. This is about life and death. It is a question of our having an unabated responsibility in this House to ensure that the most vulnerable people in society are protected most and first. I think the Swedish people would have understood if we said that we could not raise the unemployment fund this much for those of us who are healthy and become short-term unemployed, because we had to protect the children with severe disabilities. I think a lot of people would have accepted that.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-239	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to remind ourselves of the joint responsibility of all of us in this pandemic, namely to ensure that the general spread of infection is stopped. We are certainly in a completely different position today than we were last spring, when we were thrown into the pandemic, when the knowledge was limited and we chose – very consciously, and I think it was wise – to listen to the science and knowledge we had. It was considerably more limited at first than it is today. It was then that we all need to adapt and keep our distance so that we create a society in which all people have the opportunity to live as normal lives as it is now possible despite an ongoing virus spread. What happened in this? Well, they have tried to find ways to describe what risks could be seen collectively. Then the group older has been the one that has been pointed out. We work hard to make it possible for that group to feel freedom and be a part of society without increasing the risk of spreading infection. To say, on the other hand, that children in any constellation collectively are a risk group has not been what they found support for. On the other hand, there is absolutely and no doubt, no discussion about it, children who may have increased sensitivity to infection. Then they have it regardless of covid-19. Covid-19 does not make things any better, one can of course add, but I think that when Lars Beckman describes it it is as if we should describe the whole group as a risk group. I am not prepared to politically describe the whole group as a risk group, but I think it is important that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Public Health Agency are the ones that define both risk groups and which systems or what protection is needed. On the other hand, care needs to take the situation of individuals seriously and make recommendations. We also have other compensation schemes, I would like to emphasise, such as family allowances when it comes to the care of children. The delimitation that was made in relation to relatives is the one that I have explained in a question answer to Lars Beckman. I have also explained it in my answer to the interpellation. I do not currently have any other answer to give to Lars Beckman on this matter. Of course we'll keep following it. We are pleased that the situation is looking better, but we realise, of course, that the situation may also deteriorate. I also understand that there is a concern in the group described by Lars Beckman.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-245	Madam President, I would like Just to be clear: My interpellation is therefore about children who have a disability, not about all children if the Government believed it. I note that the Government has no information to give to the thousands of families in Sweden affected by this issue. I note that the Government has no answer to give to the RBU. Maybe that's why the government hasn't responded to their debate article in Aftonbladet... because there's no news. It seems as soon as possible that the Government does not even want to take action on this issue. I think it's troubling. I think that when she wakes up one morning, the minister should think like this: As Minister of State in Sweden, I represent the whole of Sweden. What's my most important role? It is, of course, to protect those who are weakest in the event of a pandemic, those who need the protection of society most. That's the role of the government, isn't it? Now the Government is obviously aware that there are major shortcomings in the protection of children who need society's protection most. I am absolutely sure that the Government can see the picture in front of her of the girl who needs around the clock breathing help and that she understands why such an infection is not allowed into that household, whether it is through parents or assistants or any other category. That's why this interpellation is about life and death. And I can make a promise to the Government: we will be seen here again in a few weeks' time unless the Government has taken any action, because I really believe that it is the government and the government's absolutely most important task to protect the weak in society, to have a conversation with the RBU, the FUB and others who have seen these major shortcomings and come back to Parliament with a regulatory framework that will work for everyone but which specifically protects the weakest.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-251	Madam President, I would like In this debate, it deserves to be said that I assume that the person who needs great assistance, the person who needs breathing aid 24 hours a day, has state assistance. Of course, those who are in such great need need of state assistance. I realise that it is not easy, but I still want to bring in the question of how long everyone in a household should stay isolated. It is also a question of keeping a distance in a household. The possibility of being at home with the allowance has been limited to a relative who is a personal assistant for the reason that you cannot keep the distance you can otherwise keep. It will be impossible for a whole family of adults and children of different ages to have no contact with society outside. It is important to really relate to all the rules and recommendations that exist and that society as a whole is adapted. The person who needs round-the-clock breathing assistance should have state assistance and be covered by the proposal. Otherwise, I have no new information to give today. I very much hope that those who have these needs will seek the sickness allowance that is now possible to apply for.
i-6t7UJeNov8R5UcwdcrtVou	I warmly welcome the ministers to the House. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-255	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. I believe that many Swedes' hearts are with the struggling people of Belarus and follow the daily struggle from not least the streets of Minsk as reflected in the media. It's a struggle for freedom. It is also a question of red-white self-esteem and a demand for righteousness. We see this most recently with the Nobel Laureate Aleksijevitj Aleksijevich, who sits in something that can almost be likened to a voluntarily elected house arrest. Among other things, she does so with the help of a Swedish diplomat, who is there to protect her from abuse by the Belarus regime. This is what we see in Belarus: the naked face of violence. This requires action and action. With disappointment, we note that the EU has not yet been able to move from words to action. Therefore, I wish to see a more active role from the Swedish side where we, together with like-minded people, try to do more to push for sanctions and demands against Belarus.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-258	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. Of course, we share our deep outrage at what is happening in Belarus. I can assure you that Sweden is extremely active on this issue, which should not have escaped anyone. We are one of the countries that is by far the most active both in terms of support for civil society and in terms of demands for sanctions, and in various ways to initiate a dialogue in order to restore democracy, freedom and justice in Belarus. What is now happening goes against all our values, including those we have in the European Union, in every way. No one can more than I hope that further sanctions will be quickly imposed on Belarus.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-260	Mr President, I would like to One country that also has a high level of activity from both government and opposition is Lithuania, which is a neighbouring country to Belarus. They have called for other countries to also try to do more if now the EU itself is not able to do what would actually be the most necessary, that is, to pursue a policy of sanctions. Could this be something that Sweden could coordinate with other countries, such as the Baltics, in order to put the light on the importance of getting so-called Magnitsky legislation in place? With this, we could punish human rights violations.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-261	Mr President, I would like to My Socialist fellow Minister for Foreign Affairs in Lithuania and I have very close contact on these issues. We have together made sure that the diplomats have come to Aleksijevitj Aleksijevich's apartment, and we look at everything you can do. As far as the Magnitsky legislation is concerned, negotiations are now under way. We're in favour of one. We are very active, and I hope that this will also soon be in place. There's something delayed because of covid.
i-5TqKaKtUJVU46jTM85vjLG	Mr President, I would like to On the morning of August 23, two teenage boys were found in a cemetery in Solna. They had been subjected all night to what has come to be called torture kidnapping and rape robbery. The boys were stabbed, raped with various objects and buried alive because they didn't want to buy drugs. Suspects have a foreign background, and one of them was sentenced in February to 18 months in prison for arson. Due to full prisons, the sentence was to be served only in December. Does Per Bolund feel that the government made this possible when one of the perpetrators would have been in prison if the government had secured sufficient places of detention?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-264	Mr President, I would like to The deed that Tobias Andersson describes is, of course, terrible and despicable. It is to be condemned by all means. Of course, anyone who commits such abuse should be put in prison. You should take punishment when committing crimes like these, no matter what background or ethnicity you have. It's not what's crucial, it's what kind of crime you commit. We have made great efforts to increase the capacity of the judiciary to deal with criminals. We have significantly increased the allocation to the police. We now have more police officers in Sweden than we have ever had. We have also invested more money in the Prison Service and, not least, in Sis, who is in charge of youth care centres. So we spend more money and make sure there are resources. We will do everything we can to put the people who commit crimes in Sweden behind bars.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-267	Mr President, I would like to Despite this, a sentenced individual was in Swedish streets and squares and had the opportunity to commit this terrible act. I find it ominous that when Swedish youths are robbed today, it is no longer enough for them to get rid of their possessions. In addition, they should be damaged, dominated and humiliated. Does the Government feel no responsibility for this development of society?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-269	Mr President, I would like to I think we should all take responsibility for doing everything we can to combat crime in our society. Crime is a social danger, and we need to do much more to combat it. We've made a lot of effort. We have been able to implement a number of points during our term of office, and they will make a big difference in combating crime in our society. However, I do not agree with the Swedish Democrats' analysis, which seems to be that there was no crime in Sweden before we had migration. We know that this is not true. Unfortunately, this is a social problem that we need to deal with with with the full force of society.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-272	Mr President, I would like to The support is strong for all the hundreds of thousands of belarus who so courageously demand freedom from Lukasjenko and from oppression, torture and electoral fraud. Despite police violence, torture, and arrests, they have gone out into the streets all over Belarus, forming chains and holding hands. It has now been going on for just over a month. The Secretary of State was yesterday in the Baltic States. I hope that she then received many greetings in terms of efforts that can be made. Our Baltic neighbours have imposed their own sanctions. They have sanctions against Lukasjenko but also against 29 other official representatives. They say it's better to speak with one voice than none at all. Why does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not speak in the same way as the Baltic States?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! I share the outrage at what the Belarus people are being subjected to, and I share the very strong feeling they express in order to have a free and democratic Belarus. Sweden does not have national sanctions legislation. We have sanctions legislation following EU and UN decisions. We are working hard to bring about a Magnitsky legislation, as we call it, according to the negotiations going on in Brussels. I hope that these negotiations will come to an end, so that we can have the same legislation in Sweden.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-276	Mr President, I would like to But it is actually the case that it is possible to make national decisions on a Magnitsky law. This has been done by our Baltic neighbours. They have decided to impose sanctions themselves and not to turn themselves into any form of prisoner in the camp of any other Member State. Why does Sweden not, as Lithuania, for example, do and introduce its own Magnitsky legislation?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-277	Mr President, I would like to This is because we in Sweden – with the support of the Riksdag, as I understand – have always said that common sanctions are much more effective. That is why we have sanctions legislation based on common sanctions in the EU and the UN. Now we're going to be there to get a Magnitsky law in place. The issue of national sanctions has not yet been raised. If that requirement is made, we will of course investigate it in the usual way, but we do not have national sanctions legislation in Sweden. Moreover, we have extremely good relations with the Baltic countries.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-280	Mr President, I would like to Turkey is now more or less waging or starting war in five places in the world. In Syria, the Turkish military has marched in – first into Aphrin, then, last autumn, into Rojava. It is war that Sweden and the Swedish Government have condemned. In Iraq Kurdish refugee camps are being bombed. In Libya, mercenaries have been sent into the midst of the unrest that the world has created following the overthrow of dictator Gaddafi. It is clearly trying to win the support of the outside world, but at the same time it is in direct conflict with, among other things, the Egyptian military regime. With Cyprus, the conflict has existed for almost 50 years. It is an old conflict that has been revived now that Turkey is looking for oil and gas in Cypriot waters, which has led to sanctions being imposed by the EU. The next place is the Greek island world, where Turkey wants to gain power over the area around the Greek island of Kastellorizo. In this critical situation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, has chosen to highlight the good cooperation with Turkey in a tweet. Now is not the time for happy tweets. Now is the time to speak clearly with the Turkish regime!
i-e9d36d9474f49002-283	Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid I didn't get the question. Should I stop tweeting? Or should I not have a relationship with Turkey at all? Nevertheless, I can say that we have been extremely clear about Turkey's violations of human rights and democracy. We have a relationship with Turkey on both the Swedish and the EU side, which condemns when necessary, for example, the military offensive in Syria, but also dialogue when necessary. In this case it was something that I am absolutely sure Håkan Svenneling had found important to bring about.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-285	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State doesn't seem to remember what she tweeted as late as Friday. She tweeted about Turkey's Foreign Minister and their talks. It is problematic if you just highlight the good conversation and do not speak out clearly about the human rights violations that Turkey is committing both in Turkey and outside the country in many places. Turkey is currently one of the countries that is creating the most wars in the world. It is time to speak clearly and stop chattering. There must be clearer information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs than the information we receive today.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-286	Mr President, I would like to If you believe in total isolationism, in having no dialogue, and in never talking to anyone whose actions you condemn, you don't get much done in this world. The discussion with Turkey's Foreign Minister focused on specific issues relating to OS S E, where Sweden is now a member of the Troika and will chair it. It is not a good idea to always condemn in all contexts, but we condemn, for example, the military offensive in northern Syria.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-290	Mr President, I would like to I also have a question for Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. It is an issue that has been highlighted in the international media recently. It is about the doctor Denis Mukwege, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize 2018. For his life may be in danger. He has operated and helped over 50 000 survivors from sexual violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo. He has been open to criticising violence against women and other human rights violations. Thus he has become one for the country uncomfortable person. In 2012, he was subjected to an attempted murder, and he is still living under constant threat. He has since been protected by UN peacekeeping forces, Monusco, but at present his personal protection is not secure, at least not in the long term. He has now been threatened by telephone and social media. Rwanda has also voiced threats in public media. How can the Foreign Minister influence his situation so that he can have long-term personal protection?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-293	Mr President, I would like to Dr. Mukwege is a person who deserves the greatest respect. It is one of the individuals in the world who has really made a difference. He has also received several prizes, including the Olof Palme Prize. I have met him myself on a number of occasions. I have nothing but the greatest respect for him. What he is now exposed to is the fact that, because of covid-19, the troops who previously also helped to ensure that his house and himself were protected have been withdrawn. Those soldiers have been withdrawn. We are now in a dialogue with other countries on how to provide protection. But that's what it depends on.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I really hope we work for the same thing. Denis Mukwege has expressed criticism of the DR Congo leadership. Now the UN is saying that it really wants the Congo to take over personal protection. But then it really takes us to know who is going to do this protection. Training of these staff is also required. That's what Monusco said you can do. I would really like to appeal to the Minister to ensure that there is long-term protection through the UN and not just through the DR Congo.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-297	Mr President, I would like to We have no intention but to try to protect Dr. Mukwege in the very best way. As I said before, there are not enough words to express the great respect for what he does. Of course, the international community must ensure that he is protected in various ways.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-299	Mr President, I would like to I put my question to Minister Eva Nordmark. This week, Försäkringskassan presented a new report showing that four out of five sick people with fatigue syndrome are women. This is a very large and growing problem that we see in the labour market. It mainly affects women in the middle of life with very demanding occupations but also children and families – women of my age, quite simply. Extensive research shows how important the working environment is to physical and mental health in the workplace. Mental illness and burn-out are a major and widespread problem, not least in the civil servants sector. According to the report, the length of sick leave is also increasing. The report must be taken very seriously. Otherwise, this will risk threatening equal opportunities in the labour market.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-304	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Avci for this very important issue. There is no doubt that our working life places very high demands on women and men. A lot of women experience a duplication of work – they take responsibility both at work and at home. It is clear that gender equality efforts and many different gender equality measures are crucial here. Basically, it is like creating a working environment where it is possible to reconcile work and private life and where it is possible to both feel control over their work situation, have power over it and also have time for recovery and reflection. That is why it is important for the social partners to be given the conditions they need to sign their collective agreements in order to develop the conditions. This is also why we in the Government have for a long time been providing resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, for example. It does a very important job to identify the problems that exist in the labour market linked to these issues.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-307	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment, but I do not think that answer is enough! These are problems that we have had for decades in the Swedish labour market and which, above all, affect women because they are often forced to take the great unpaid responsibility at home. Last spring we had a very big debate on health and safety at work. The government also presented a bill. However, it did not highlight the health and safety problems that were just linked to mental illness, which mainly affects women. I hope that the Minister is a little more clear in his final reply here to me on how to proceed concretely in order to act. This development must stop.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gulan Avci, for your great commitment to these issues! I believe that together we have a very big task in ensuring that there are plenty of resources for the work environment policy and the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but also for municipalities and county councils to really invest in welfare. We know that it is mainly women, well-educated women, in this kind of responsible roles that are being hit very hard. We're talking about everything from nurses and nurses to teachers. It is clear that the conditions here will be absolutely crucial.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-313	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to focus on the working environment in my question to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. Over the past ten years, nearly 100 Swedish construction workers have died at work, and nothing indicates a change. This summer, the media reported that while fatal accidents are decreasing this year overall, we see an increase in the number of fatal accidents in the construction industry.
i-8XbBzmdSBtueHJSs3dBsT3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Serkan Serkan, for your important question! No one should have to die at work. Everyone should be able to come home after their working day or shift. Nothing but a zero vision should apply to our work environment. The government intends to come back with a strategy for health and safety at work. In the current strategy, the zero vision of fatal accidents is a very important objective. I see that it will continue to be so. We need to roll up our sleeves to make sure no one has to die at work. I tabled a sharp bill last spring that could play a very important role. It is about giving access to regional safety representatives in all the workplaces covered by collective agreements. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected by the bourgeois parties together with the Swedish Democrats. I think it would have made a big difference. Of course, we need to do much more. I hope that more parties will be able to support the important work that is about creating the conditions for safety representatives to do their important job in collaboration with employers.
i-GJc6iTKAbsrsidZi2RENsg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva Nordmark, for your answer. If we are going to problematize the discussion a little more: does the Government see any link between criminal activities on construction sites and fatal accidents? If so, how are we going to get to it?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-321	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Serkan Serkan. In fact, we see a clear link between workplace accidents and occupational crime. The companies that carelessly work with the work environment are often sloppy with a lot of other things. Sometimes it's about purely criminal elements in the business. From the government we have invested in the work against unhealthy competition. We have made sure to create a collaboration between authorities that produces very big results. That work needs to continue. We just need to nail the bad guys, that's all.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-323	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Bolund. Last summer I read some distressing articles in DN about unserious credit. It was about credit companies that market themselves as: With us you can borrow even if you have debts. The person in the article describes how he has been exposed to a very aggressive sale from lenders who can see that he is very indebted. I wonder what is actually protecting consumers in that situation and how the Minister for the Financial Market sees this person's situation with a life of indebtedness because of rogue creditors.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-326	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for a very important question! We know that too many people in our society are unfortunately over-indebted. We also know that it affects their health and their prospects. It affects the circle around them, their family and children, very strongly. This means that we have a huge responsibility to do everything we can to prevent people from ending up in the very difficult life situation. We have also acted very clearly since the Red Green Government took office six years ago. As Minister of Finance, I have also ensured that we now have a much stricter regulation of, for example, short-term loan companies and high-cost credit. We have introduced a maximum interest rate and a cost ceiling which means that you can never pay more than what you have in loans in the form of fees. We have also introduced a new debt restructuring law that allows people to be lifted out of debt and become debt-free. That said, we're not done. We need to keep track of market developments and always do what is necessary to ensure that people do not end up in debt.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-331	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the articles, I was contacted by a person who has a gambling addiction with gambling on digital casino games. It handles the person using a gambling break. It is something that is being informed about in all advertising from the gaming companies. This person describes an experience of falling into the clutches of rogue creditors and describes how gambling abuse has moved to the stock exchange. There is always someone who is prepared to lend or perhaps even pushes to lend money to speculation.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-333	Mr President, I would like to It shows that we have a task to do also forward. As far as gambling is concerned, we have introduced a ban on having credits that are directly linked to gambling. It's an important connection. When you're into gambling, it's hard to keep the restrictions and limit yourself from taking out loans, for example. That's why it's important to cut that connection. We need to do more ahead. We need to coordinate credit information much better so that we can get a uniform picture of all debts. We need to improve the information for the debtor so that we know the costs involved. We need to stop rogue creditors.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-335	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. The Coronapendemy has put heavy pressure on working life. People in health care are being pushed to the extreme. Many have also been forced to work in isolation in the home under unusual circumstances. Many also testify to how employers have cancelled training and other preventive measures. Preventive work environment management is a priority at a time that is unlike any other. There is a risk of serious consequences. We also know from experience that economic crises are followed by stress-related mental illness and increased sick leave.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-339	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Saila Quicklund, both for your commitment to health and safety at work and for a very important issue! There is no doubt that the pandemic has tried us in many different ways. It is clear that for many people who work in the field of health care and care, this has been a very special situation. But it has also been for thousands of people working from home who have been working remotely, for good and bad, during this time. I believe that we will learn a great deal from labour market changes and the impact that a pandemic has had on jobs and jobs. Mynak will carry out a knowledge compilation, and it will focus on outbreaks of epidemics and pandemics and their impact on the working environment. It is also the case that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been commissioned by the Government to perform a special supervisory role in healthcare and care. We need to ensure that the social partners – unions, employers and safety representatives – can carry out their important work and that they can carry out their mission, because we know that research shows that.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-344	Mr President, I would like to Klaner and the growing gang-related crime have finally brought the government to life. For many years the Swedish Democrats have warned against this development, while the government has been busy denying and assigning to us the condescending epithet. The government has even placed responsibility on the opposition, during the short periods that the opposition has held power in Sweden. This form of crime has been known since the 1980s. Gunshots, clan-related crime, roadblocks and so on have allowed the government to continue growing for 40 years. The fact that the Prime Minister is now finally seeing the link between irresponsible migration and the explosive increase in crime is good, but there are not only links between immigration and crime, but also between immigration and increased insecurity of women. My question to Per Bolund is therefore: does the government see any link between immigration and women's increased insecurity, or is it something that the government will continue to deny?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-348	Mr President, I would like to There are clear research results from which we can base ourselves. We in the government choose to design our policies in the light of research and not in the light of public opinion. We believe that this will lead to better results. It is very clear in research that there is a link between poverty and crime. There is a clear link between social divides and crime. There is a link between bad integration and crime. But there is no connection between color and crime. I think that anyone who links immigration to crime is doing a great disservice to the overwhelming majority of people with immigrant backgrounds who go up every morning to go to work and do their job in welfare. It is my doctor, your bus driver and our children's teachers we are talking about and doing a fantastic job to make Sweden work every day. I find it rude to accuse them of being the basis of crime. I think that the Swedish Democrats, if they are in favour of this line, should give them an apology.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-351	Mr President, I would like to My question relates to skills deportations, and it goes to Eva Nordmark. In a short time I have been faced with two cases, one on Gotland and one in Halland, which is completely unreasonable. Two formal minor errors committed by the employer lead to expulsions. In our case, it is a woman who comes from New Zealand who has received very contradictory information from the Migration Board. The Finnish Immigration Service does not follow its own rules, and they are not available for contact. Once they fall, you have a week to leave the country to go to New Zealand. In addition, this is a work visa case. This means that the corona clause does not apply, and so there is no way to come to New Zee.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-354	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue which in the government is under the authority of Minister for Migration and Justice Morgan Johansson. Since I answer questions of general policy, I am happy to answer this question. I am pleased that we have a common vision in the cooperation where we are now shaping government policy in Sweden – this is the government's cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals. We have clearly written that we should ensure that labour migration works well and that we can stop the use of skills. It is a problem in Sweden that people who come here with skills that our companies need have had far too much uncertainty, and we have not been able to guarantee them the security they deserve because they come here and contribute to a thriving business and economic development in Sweden. This is a work in which we are closely involved. We are making sure, with many different means, that we can stop the type of expulsion based on small mistakes or minor errors in accounting or accounting. We will continue this work, and what is in place in the January agreement will be implemented.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-358	Mr President, I would like to Tomorrow is 11 September, and we know what that date means for the Chilean people. Today, Chile has a government that has introduced more and more authoritarian laws. In addition, a large proportion of political prisoners have been held in Chile since the social uprising, which started on 18 October 2019. Many of them are children. On 25 October, elections will also be held in Chile around the constitution, for which the social movement has fought. My question to Minister Linde is: will Sweden send election observers, and what will the Swedish Government do about Chile's dictatorial government?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for the question. Questions about election observers in all countries come to the Olympic S E. They then ask questions to the different countries. I do not know what the situation is in this particular case, so I will have to come back to that. As far as the Chilean Government is concerned, of course, Sweden expects human rights to be respected in all circumstances. We have noted and we are concerned about the data in reports from the UN and Human Rights Watch, which criticise the use of violence and Chilean police during the demonstrations last year and highlight the serious human rights violations that have occurred. The Chilean Government has acknowledged that the police forces have not followed the practice of using violence during the demonstrations, and they have begun work to reform the police.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-364	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Energy and Digitalization, Anders Ygeman. One of the challenges in Sweden's energy conversion is long permit processes in the construction of, for example, electricity grids. It can be about permit processes in maybe eight, ten, twelve years when it comes to getting a new management in place. It risks, of course, hindering the positive development that is taking place in the country – both individuals and companies are in the middle of an energy transition in order for it to become climate-smart companies and for Sweden to become a climate-smart country.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-367	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Patrik Engström, for the question! It's just like you say. We have large electricity surpluses in Sweden. Last year we exported three quarters of Denmark's total electricity consumption from Sweden, and we are contributing to the green transition around Europe thanks to our electricity exports. But it takes too long to build the electricity grids, and this makes it difficult for the electricity to reach the final consumer. That is why we need to speed up the licensing process for the construction of electricity lines. We set up the online concession investigation, which has now come up with its proposals. There are proposals to halve the time for building certain important electricity lines and to cut at least two years for the others. These are proposals that we will go forward to Parliament in the autumn and winter to ensure that it is faster to build electricity lines in Sweden and that Sweden's electricity consumers can be sure that all the electricity produced will also reach consumers.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-370	Mr President, I would like to For four decades there has been persecution, imprisonment and execution after summary trials of activists, workers, women, lawyers like Nasrin Sotoudeh, union leaders like Jafar Azimzadeh and many others in Iran. Now the wrestler Navid Afkari will also be executed, which has upset the sports movement around the world. My question to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde is: will Sweden ask the Islamic regime in Iran to release all those who have hunger striked in prisons, such as Nasrin Sotoudeh, Jafar Azimzadeh and Ahmadreza Djalali, and that the wrestler Navid should not be executed without the release of all?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-372	Mr President, I would like to We have discussed the human rights situation in Iran several times in this Parliament and have found it extremely problematic. We have repeatedly also stated officially and directly to Iran that we are totally opposed to the death penalty, including, of course, Iran. We always demand that everyone threatened by the death penalty should have the sentence changed, or be released depending on what it is about. We shall never ever accept the death penalty, nor, of course, for the current wrestler who has been sentenced to the death penalty. We also call for the release of political prisoners and for the full implementation of human rights and democracy in Iran.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-373	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Bolund. The Prime Minister has made it clear to the Swedish people that people at risk of corona should stay home from work and be compensated for this, which I support and consider to be a balanced priority during the crisis. That's good! Now, however, the reality and the government's call to the people is on patrol, when the Social Insurance Agency rejects applications from the 70-plus group on the grounds that you have to be sick in order to receive compensation for being at home. Prior to Corona, the group contributed expertise, experience and tax to the system. We have, for example, Kent, 71 years of age, in Södermanland, who normally works 100 percent but who now has estimated that he can probably work 50 percent from home and thus apply for compensation for the remaining 50. Result: rejection, because he has not been considered ill.
i-6N8WLjnqyU5Z7xNHgeXNjd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Lifvenhage, for an important question! The government has made enormous efforts to manage jobs and finances through the crisis that Sweden has been through, the pandemic that we are still in. It has included supporting companies but also supporting employees and ensuring that hundreds of thousands of employees have been able to keep their jobs that would otherwise have been lost, according to the authorities' assessments. So our efforts have been effective and useful. We have also made efforts to ensure that people at risk are able to stay at home and have a livelihood so that they do not have to expose themselves to the risk of infection. As for those aged 70 and over, it is generally people who have a pension and who then have a livelihood through their pension. I cannot interfere with the Authority's assessment of an individual matter, but I will take the question with me and see if there is anything we can do forward to ensure that even people over the age of 70 who are still working can receive compensation for the lost income.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-380	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Per Bolund. In the wake of the irresponsible immigration policy of recent decades in Sweden, authorities have pointed out that they do not have proper control of where people live or who are in the country. Among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency reported in 2017 that between 30 and 50 percent of newly arrived migrants had stated more than one identity, probably in order to somehow manipulate the system. We also see problems with people who are in Sweden not having the right to be here. This could be a refusal after the asylum application or an illegal entry into the country. According to the Delegation for correct payments, SEK 18 billion per year is wrongly paid out from our welfare systems, and there is reason to suspect that the amount is greater than that. In view of this, I would like to ask the question whether the government sees a need for a new census and whether it also intends to address the problem of people with multiple identities and people who are in Sweden illegally.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-383	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eric Westroth, for an important question! Of course, it is important that we have information about what the population of Sweden looks like. We should have the best possible data to base on when designing policies and when, for example, we make payments from the state and from other authorities. Not least, it is important that we can also help people in a vulnerable position, such as vulnerable women and children, people who are victims of trafficking and the like. Of course, it is also valuable to have an up-to-date task on how the population looks and how it is distributed across the country. As far as I know, it is a bill of the population planned for next year. That is something we welcome. On the other hand, we do not interfere in exactly how this is done, but it is up to the authorities to find the best possible form to make a calculation of the population in Sweden.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-387	Mr President, I would like to Despite the pandemic, house prices have continued up in Sweden. The large housing shortage proved to be an even stronger force than Corona. According to the Swedish Brokerage Statistics, prices have risen by an average of 2 per cent in the last month for dwellings and villas. In Gothenburg, from which I come, prices have increased by 5% in just three months. The more prices rise, the tougher it will also be for young people, people who, despite their fixed income, find it more difficult to buy their own housing, because of the credit restrictions that are now in place and who make demands both on their own contribution and on a high amortisation rate. Only those who already have it strained can get a loan and buy a home.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-390	Mr President, I would like to One can rely on a moderate when it comes to always being able to describe developments in dark terms. When we entered the pandemic with its economic consequences, many were afraid that we would have sharply falling prices, that we would, for example, have a housing bubble that broke due to increasing unemployment and decreasing ability to pay. We're not there now. We have stability in the housing market. We do not have a situation where prices fall. This is something that is positive and shows that there is a strength in the Swedish economy. It also shows that the risks of a rollover to a housing crisis and then a financial crisis are not great. So I think it is a positive development that we do not have falling prices. Of course, however, we need to do everything we can to enable our young people to enter the housing market. That is why the government has a more active housing policy than we have had in many decades. That is also why we are now at a very high rate in the construction of rental apartments, which are also supported by the state through investment aid. This means that there is now a wider choice for young people who are going out on the housing market.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-392	Mr President, I would like to Recently, more and more votes have been raised for increased property tax in Sweden. With the proposals under discussion, house owners and owner-occupiers would suffer tens of thousands of dollars in increased taxes each year. Ordinary people are in danger of being forced to move from home again. The Minister of Finance has replied in this House that she does not exclude a tax on smiles – let alone a reinstated property tax. I would therefore like to ask Per Bolund: Can you reassure Sweden's small house owners that no property tax will be reintroduced in Sweden?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-394	Mr President, I would like to This is not on the government's table. There are no plans to introduce a property tax according to an older model. However, I think that we need to be able to see the challenges and problems that exist in the real estate market today. One such challenge is that the property tax imposed by the bourgeois government has created a rather unfair system whereby, for example, those who have a hugely valuable property in a wealthy urban suburb have to pay as much a fee as a person who lives in a low-valued property in our countryside. I think that this kind of unequal distribution of justice is misdirected. I think it is reasonable to pay for the value of your capital, even if it is linked to a property. If so, it is a question of seeing how we can make the system that exists today fairer and fairer. However, there are no plans to introduce property tax at present.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-398	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. Mr President, I would like to There will be a winter this year too, and it will surely be very cold. If this cold were to occur in the whole of northern Europe at the same time, there is an imminent risk that we would end up in a situation of partial switch-off of our electricity grid. A few years ago the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise carried out a survey among its member companies, asking what preparedness there was for a partial switch-off and whether the companies were aware of this at all. Of the companies that responded to the survey, 89% did not know that there was a risk, and 86% had no plan for dealing with partial extinguishing.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-402	Mr President, I would like to No, we will not make any such efforts as Lars Beckman describes. Our efforts are, of course, aimed at ensuring that electricity consumers have good access to electricity. We have a well-functioning market in Sweden and the Nordic countries to ensure that consumers have power. As Lars Beckman probably knows, during the coldest hour of the coldest winter day in recent years we have exported power. We've also imported power. This is how a market works: You both export and import electricity, and then the price will be influenced by supply and demand – something that the Moderates in most other contexts think is a good order and that during the years they have been in government have also thought was a good order for Sweden. We will ensure that the largest electricity surplus in Swedish history will also benefit Swedish consumers and continue to contribute to the climate transition across Europe.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-405	Mr President, I would like to In the wake of the Corona crisis, the situation in the labour market is now getting darker. In Fyrbodal, which I myself represent, unemployment has already risen to over 10%. For jobs and growth in Fyrbodal, it is now extremely important that the government gives the green light to Preem's development plans regarding the refinery in Lysekil and that the government contributes to the fact that Europe's biggest investment in land-based salmon farming can become a reality in Sotenäs. For Strömstad, another of Fyrbodal's 14 municipalities, the Corona crisis has been not only a hard blow but a real punch in the mouth. More than 30 percent of Strömstad's working population is currently laid off or announced. Now the state must help Strömstad to tackle the acute crisis and change its labour market. Can the Minister of Labour promise Strömstad targeted support measures, specifically in the form of financing of a conversion office and in the form of specific training initiatives?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-407	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg! We are in the midst of the worst crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. Over 100,000 people have been announced. More than 270 000 people have been enrolled in the Employment Service since March. I was as late as yesterday in Sundsvall, where more than 1 000 people have also been given notice. This is a very difficult situation. We need to make sure that we now move from a very active policy, where we have added many temporary measures and saved thousands of jobs, to also investing sustainably in new jobs, climate change and welfare. The historically large investments that will now be made, in the form of 100 billion in the budget that the Finance Minister will soon present, will thus be very important to turn the development in Sweden and on the Swedish labour market.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-409	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. Per Bolund mentioned earlier that we Moderates always black paint. Now I thought that I would give the Government the opportunity to be a little positive for the future. At the moment, Lysekil and Preemraff are waiting for a message from the government about starting the process to make Preemraff climate neutral in the long term. It is about billion-dollar investments that create jobs and increase access to biofuels, which must be made to make our fleet fossil independent. The local government in Lysekil has just said yes with a resounding majority. Only the Green Party said no. The Land and Environment Court has agreed to the investment. Now I wonder: when does the government intend to give the go-ahead for these investments, which are important for jobs, the environment and climate?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-412	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby, for a current and interesting question! This is a matter that is now on the government table and where we now take in data from, for example, the municipality – the decision to which Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby refers. We are then responsible as a government for carrying out a proper examination of the application and providing a well-founded and legally assured answer. This is the first time such a large investment has been tested from a climate point of view, so of course we have to do a solid job in relation to that test. I cannot, therefore, give Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby an answer exactly when a reply may come, but the government is obviously working as intensively as possible to provide an answer to the question as quickly as possible. In parallel with this, the government is also working to create the best possible conditions for producing biofuels that enable us to drive our cars with renewable energy instead of fossil energy, which is also important for reducing our emissions.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-415	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs; it is about Hong Kong. Hong Kong has been given a so-called security team. China has acted, and continues to act, very forcefully by imprisoning people, preventing media from working freely and adversely affecting Hong Kong's legal independence. Here it is a question of the rest of the world remaining safe and firm for Hong Kong's freedom and rights. Other crises are going on – Belarus has been mentioned here – but it is important not to forget Hong Kong. This is also about the rights of other countries; it is about Taiwan, Tibet and much more than Hong Kong. I would therefore like to hear how the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that Sweden should continue to work on these issues.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt! I fully share Margareta Cederfelt's dismay at what has happened in Hong Kong. Last, just a few days ago, there was once again a great wave of arrests in which, among others, several Social Democratic opposition politicians were put under arrest. I protested against this, through Twitter, through our embassies and so on. Unfortunately, it seems to me in some quarters that Hong Kong has fallen down on the international agenda, and I think we should do everything we can to counteract that. It is still the case that what is happening in Hong Kong after the new security legislation is totally unacceptable.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-419	Mr President, I would like to Citizens who suffer from post-covid problems – shortness of breath, heart problems, joint pain and brain fatigue – have become ill this spring and had symptoms that are different. They have then made it to work but realized that the aftermath is too great, and they continue to have problems with sick leave. Those who have these and similar problems and became ill in March are now starting to have trouble with Försäkringskassan.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-421	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! It is incredibly important that we create the best possible security and protection for people affected by this terrible disease, which has hurt a great deal. Not least, our elderly have suffered a lot of hair t. It is also the government's task to ensure that we do everything we can to alleviate the effects of covid-19 and the pandemic that has hit our country. That is also why we have made historically great efforts, both to provide additional support to municipalities and regions so that care and well-being can be maintained and so that as many people as possible can keep their jobs and that companies can continue to have people employed. We will do everything we can to ensure that people who have suffered the disease receive compensation that they can live on. As far as the individual case is concerned, I shall take the question with me. However, I would like to point out that this group had not been helped by Moderate policies on sick leave, which were of course about a backlog in the health insurance system which automatically kicked people out after a certain period of time. That's not how we treat people in our country.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-424	Mr President, I would like to David Josefsson has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration what concrete measures he intends to take in the autumn to tackle the increasingly visible organised serious crime that characterises our major cities. Furthermore, David Josefsson has asked within what time frame the Minister for Justice and Migration's ambition is to reduce the shootings and organised violence in Sweden. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The violence caused by criminal networks, which we have seen several examples of this summer, must be tackled with the full force of society. This government delivers measures step by step that will fight crime. The criminal networks are to be broken, the rottility is to be pushed back and the backness is to increase. With the 34-point programme, we implement the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The programme includes actions in the short and long term. We give new tools to the authorities and tighten the penalties, but we also ensure that we get good and long-term crime prevention work. The legal system in Sweden has undergone extensive development in recent years. We are now halfway towards the target of 10,000 more police workers in 2024. Last summer we could see that there were more police officers than ever before in Sweden. Correctional services have been expanded, penalties have been tightened for violent and gun crimes and police surveillance has increased significantly. And progress continues. In the coming years, the Police Authority plans to set up another 150 cameras, and the Agency is also ready to start using biometric facial recognition when reviewing surveillance images in criminal investigations. Several measures are under way that will hit the criminal gangs hard. In the recent bill on additional penalties for possession and smuggling of illegal weapons and explosives, a general starting point is that the new penalties should hit criminal networks particularly hard. At the same time, a special investigator has the task of making proposals that will tighten the penalties for crimes related to criminal settlements. It is also very important that witnesses dare to participate in criminal investigations. Here the government's message is clear: the culture of silence must be broken and the judicial process strengthened. This is why we have set up an investigation to analyse, among other things, increased penalties for violations of the law and protection and support for witnesses and their relatives. An important measure to prevent and combat crime is that individuals receive the support they need to be able to leave criminal environments. To strengthen this work, the government has given a mandate to four authorities to set up a national defector programme. In March, we'll get their accounts. The government is working both broadly and vigorously against serious and organised crime. It's long-term work, and we don't have any plans to slow down.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-433	Mr President, I would like to It is 20 minutes for two Wednesday 26 August when I walk past Drottningtorget in the middle of Gothenburg. There is something wrong in the square — a mood that is difficult to describe but that can literally be touched. Around the square stand men dressed in black posted in small groups, some of them masked or with hood drawn over their heads. There and then both me and all the other Gothenburgers who just pass by have difficulty understanding what is happening, more than that something is happening – something unpleasant. Afterwards, the media tell us: Several criminal gangs have been in prison in a hotel negotiating. Out in the square, guards have marked their presence, for each other, but also for the police and for all who passed by. The police did a good job that day by quickly strengthening and meeting up. But nothing more could be done than to control the men dressed in black and then let them go. Mr President, I would like to The weeks before, three shootings had taken place in Gothenburg: the first at a gas station on Bäckebolsvägen, the second on Akkas's street and the third at Friskvädertorget. In fact, the fact that no passerby met in one of the three shootings is just pure luck. During the same time criminals had also set up roadblocks and checked cars in Angered. In addition, a schoolman had been kidnapped and assaulted and alerted about armed men at his place of work. Mr President, I would like to The Government Mikael Damberg has said in an interview with GP that the criminals who set up roadblocks in Angered ran when the police arrived. But the problem is that no one ran when the police came to Drottningtorget. And even if the police were able to unblock the roadblocks, home workers testify that they have been stopped and controlled by the criminal gangs. The Prime Minister called the criminals "small gangsters" in an already notorious interview in Expressen. But these aren't petty gangsters. These aren't criminals running when the police come. A few days ago a film was released showing how two police officers are surrounded in Angered's square when they stop a mopedist. A menacing man yells at a cop to put the baton down or be raped with it. According to the police, it is the same people who figure in the film who have also set up roadblocks. Mr President, I would like to In fact, I do not know if Mikael Damberg understands the seriousness of the situation that many Gothenburgers experience every day. Then you don't say this is about people running when the police come. If you understand the seriousness, you don't call these people petty gangsters. These are organizations, constellations and clans that want to establish parallel social structures and not back to threaten witnesses or police officers or demonstrate their power, also in broad daylight and also in the middle of central Gothenburg. These are criminal gangs that threaten our society and that must be destroyed. Mr President, I would like to My questions to the Government remain. What does the Government intend to do in concrete terms this autumn in addition to tightening the penalty for illegal possession of arms? And within what time frame does the Government intend to reduce the violence and shootings?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-444	Mr President, I would like to We're gonna break the gangs. We're going to exterminate the gangs. This is what the government, with Morgan Johansson at the head, and also Löfven, says. These are tough words, but what's the truth? For the past four years, while Damberg and his friends have been in government, 150 people have been killed and a lot of people injured in over 1 100 shootings. So this is everyday crime in Sweden. When I wake up in the morning and watch TV, I'm almost surprised when there hasn't been a shooting or a bombing anywhere. It is simply terrible that it has become so commonplace. In recent times, violence has become more and more severe. Many have talked about the 12-year-old, and you can imagine yourself: a 12-year-old little girl who gets shot down with automatic weapons! It's so terrible that you almost don't even want to believe it's true. The second example is what happened in Solna with the two young boys in 16 years who were tortured for ten hours, raped, buried and stabbed in the legs. Violence has become so terribly serious and gross that sometimes I feel I don't know what to do. I know it doesn't look like this in Finland, and maybe I, who's a pimple from the beginning, should move back there. It seems a little calmer there. Damberg is also welcome. I know you have Finnish roots, so maybe we can move together. Police say there are 5,000 people in these criminal gangs. The majority of them have an immigrant background. Most people know that. That's what the police say, and I know that myself, too, after working as a cop for 30 years. We in the Moderates have long said that migration, with the poor integration that we have in Sweden, fattens gang crime. This has been denied by the Löfven One into death, until yesterday evening at 2.30 p.m. 21. Then he suddenly saw a connection. It is good that he is finally beginning to acknowledge this. Given that you're saying you want to destroy the gangs, I wonder if that's really the case. The first step is then to significantly reduce migration to Sweden, as we Moderates want. But the government does not want that, but you have proposed increasing immigration from today's levels. We have calculated this, and that is what your proposal means compared to today's levels. That's why I wonder, how do you get into it with you doing everything you can to crush the gangs? This doesn't make any sense. If migration continues at this high rate, you will never crush the gangs, as you have said you want to do. I would like to hear how you think increased migration can destroy gang crime.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-451	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, David Josefsson, for an important question that is being asked in this House today! I will return to my county of Gävleborg in a little while, but I wanted to start by asking my first question to the Government. The question is of course: How can you sit in a Swedish government and be responsible for important social issues without informing the Prime Minister about the clans that exist in Sweden? How is it that the Prime Minister must listen to the Swedish Radio Ekot's Saturday interview to find out that there are system threatening clans in Sweden? Was there not a single small room, was there not a single small opportunity and was there not a single time when Minister Damberg had been able to take the Prime Minister and say this? He could have said, Stefan, I need ten minutes. I have to tell the Prime Minister something. There are 40 clans that threaten the system in Sweden. If Minister Damberg had told the Prime Minister this, perhaps more decisive action would have been taken on this matter in the past, what do I know? In the interpellation response that the Government read out, I heard that the same interview talked about a 34-point program. Those of us who saw Aktuellt yesterday found that two of these points could in some sense be said to be cancelled, but 32 points are under investigation. If there is anything we can be sure of, it is that investigations and empty talk will not solve the situation. Mr President, I would like to Gävleborg has a very, very strained situation. Anyone who follows the national media can note that there have been serious shootings in the larger cities of Hofors and Gävle. Gävle has had three serious shootings. It's unprovoked, and maybe it's gang crime. Of course, the police will have to sort that out. At the same time as this happens in Gävleborg, the police and the police union are alerting us that resources have been taken from our county. In the region to which Gävleborg belongs, resources have been moved from Gävleborg down to Uppsala, while at the same time there is a wave of shootings in Gävleborg. I have some concrete questions for the Government. Why has no minister taken the opportunity to inform the Prime Minister of these clans? He says himself that he did not know about this, but he learned about it when he listened to the Swedish Radio Ekot's Saturday interview. Would it not have been important for Minister Damberg to have mentioned this to the Prime Minister at some point? That is one question. The second question is: How can those living in Gävleborg be protected, and how can the crimes be solved when there have been so many fewer police officers in our county because they have moved them to other areas?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-460	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday the Gothenburg-Post had news that twelve clan-like criminal gangs control the crime in Gothenburg. In Borås there are similar problems with groupings that commit serious crimes and also fight each other. This is what it looks like in many Swedish cities today. Unfortunately, there are many common caring people who feel insecure in their own residential area and who hardly dare to go out in the evening and walk the dog or take a run. It is distressing to hear police officers sound the alarm about how one lacks resources and is forced to back away from criminal groups and to follow news about how ordinary people get in the way of the criminal's weapons and, at worst, lose their lives. We are also affected by a great deal of car fires and other fires, explosions, aggravated beatings and robberies, billions of dollars in our social security systems, an increasing number of drug trafficking and more and more children being forced or lured into crime. Organised crime takes its place in our society. Today, SVT also reports another gloomy report. One year after the government presented its action programme against gang crime, the number of shootings and explosions has increased. Perhaps the criminal gangs are not particularly deterred by the fact that the government is launching a number of investigations that will not even lead to sharp proposals during this term of office. I am pleased that the Parliament approved my motion on the enforcement of the law against violations of the law and that this point is mentioned in the Government's action programme. Many other proposals in the action programme are also the result of commissions from the Riksdag to the Government to produce sharper legislation. But what is needed now are sharp proposals in the near future and not an endless series of investigations. Furthermore, as Lars Beckman points out, it is serious that our head of government is not in control. The statement by the Prime Minister that he only learned on Saturday that a number of criminal gangs and clans control the crime in parts of the country was almost embarrassing. Until now, the Prime Minister has also stubbornly denied in all the debates that immigration has any impact on crime. But suddenly, in yesterday's party leader debate and in an interview in SVT, he changes his foot and admits the obvious – that too much migration brings social tension in our suburbs, which contributes to increased crime. It is serious if the whole government does not have a correct picture of reality. If you do not see the problems and do not understand why they have arisen, you will probably not be able to do anything about them either. Mr President, I would like to During the reign of the Alliance in 2006 – 2014, the number of police officers in Sweden increased from about 17,000 to 20,000. This was a significantly stronger increase in percentage than the increase in the population, which means that the number of police officers per capita increased. Today's government often claims that the number of police officers has increased further since 2014. That is not true, however, because, while new policemen have been trained, other police officers have left the profession. The other day the Police Magazine published figures from the Police Authority, which give a gloomy picture of the situation. It can be observed that after eight years of the Alliance there were a total of over 20 000 police officers in 2015. The years after, the number fell to less than 20,000. It was only in 2019 that they were back on a level just over 20 000. In other words, nothing happened at all during the first five years of today's government in terms of the total number of police officers. The question then is how many of these police officers are working in external service, that is to say, moving out in society and prosecuting crimes, and what developments have been during today's government. Here we can see that the number of police officers in external service is lower today than in 2015, both in absolute terms and in proportion of the number of police officers employed and also dramatically lower in terms of population. Mr President, I would like to So we have fewer policemen visible in society today than when the Alliance left the government. At the same time, serious crime has increased. This is a very sad development, and the government's attempt to make its own contribution cannot change that picture.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-474	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the situation in Sweden is serious cannot be mentioned enough. Gang crime is a standing point in everyday life. We do not know what we are waking up to, just as my party colleague Ellen Juntti spoke about in a previous post. In the response from the Government to David Josefsson, the Minister for the Interior says that it is the largest package against gang crime that has ever been presented. But then we must also talk about the situation in which we find ourselves. This is a really serious situation, and we shouldn't have been here. Mr President, I would like to Denmark is Skåne close. There is only a narrow sound between. On the Scanian land, just as in Gothenburg, the criminal gangs have taken ever greater liberties. Malmö has been on the wallpaper for a long time, for a number of years. The problem then spread out with headlines saying that this is not just a problem in the big cities. This testifies to an ongoing, growing problem and a major social problem. It is about drug sales, extortion, increasingly serious crimes and criminal networks with a large amount of violent capital. In Danish soil, a number of gang packages have been implemented for a number of years specifically against serious organised crime. The government's response in the debate forum has until now been that Denmark is not like us in all areas. They have softer legislation than Sweden on certain points. It is not, however, a response to the measures that are being called for. The question is that Sweden must be able to learn and get in place what is missing. And it's urgent. It's been going on for a long time. Denmark has, as I said, been working on gang crime packages for a long time. Among other things, proposals were made in 2017 to tighten the penalties for crimes committed in gang environments and also to increase the possibility of banning sentenced persons from staying in certain areas. For a long time, we have wanted to introduce several of the measures in place in Denmark and have been pointing out this time and again. The Danish verdict after the double murder has sent a strong signal to Swedish gangs about the difference between the two countries. Gangs are mobile, and our country is lagging behind the Danish legislation, which here has a completely different and significantly higher level of penalties. This has also led people in another way to increase their appeal to Sweden's policy to bring about change. It is a mixture of hope that it goes in the neighboring country and grief and anger that it has gone too far and out of control in our own country. People aren't safe. At least I've never received as many e-mails from citizens as I have now. It's a new phenomenon. The goal is according to the Government's 34-point programme that in Sweden everyone should be safe, no matter where you live. The fight against gross violence and recruitment of gangs and network environments must be intensified. In this connection, I would like to reiterate the questions: when will the concrete measures be in place? Will something happen in the autumn to deal with these visible, organised serious criminals? What time frame does the Minister see is the ambition to remove shootings and organised violence from streets and squares in Sweden?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-484	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, David Josefsson, for an urgent interpellation debate! It is a challenge to answer all the questions; I think there are three four interpellations in one here. But I'm going to make an effort to have a dialogue with several at once. I would like to start with the obvious and most important thing: we are in a serious situation. We have a gang criminality that has stuck in Sweden, which is ruthless and which practices violence and creates insecurity in our big cities but also in other places around Sweden. This is not something we should get used to or accept. It should be pushed back, and then it requires determination, long-termness and a great measure of humility in the face of the seriousness of the task. There is not a single measure to reverse this trend, but a number of measures are needed. If we start in Gothenburg, I can say that there are red conflicts in Gothenburg right now. These gangs are not new; they have been in Gothenburg for a long time. Anyone who has not known that there are clan-based networks in Sweden has not been involved in developments in Gothenburg in recent decades. It's very clear. I would like to make it clear that this is such a serious discussion that the debate deserves not to be held at too low a level. The Prime Minister didn't say he didn't know there were gangs that are family- and clan-based. What was new was that the Police Authority went out with a number that said how many such there are in Sweden. During the year, the Prime Minister has kept up-to-date with the Head of the National Police who has told us how the work against gang criminals is going on in Sweden and what situation assessments and efforts are being made. This is not something we should take lightly, but we should not reduce the debate in that way either. We have problems in Gothenburg, and we cannot be satisfied with the situation. I know that the police are now making efforts there together with the municipality and other actors and authorities to put pressure on the gangs. Nor do I think we benefit from a discussion where we glorify the gangs or clans. When I say that when the police came to the roadblocks, they ran, because that's actually what happened at the roadblocks, then we don't have to say it wasn't like that. It gives the impression that the police's efforts do not make any difference. Then the situation was different at the hotel, wasn't it? So let us take the discussion seriously, because the police need support. We should not devalue the police and say that their efforts make no difference when they deposit them and when they have legal support to intervene. This about Gothenburg, and it is serious. I also met the municipal board in Gothenburg and had a dialogue with them. I think it is important to say that we on the government side have a dialogue with all the presidents of the municipal boards where there are particularly vulnerable areas or areas of risk. We do not have that to discuss what they could have done differently, but to see together how we are building up against gang crime in Sweden. I think it is a good way to work so that you also create pressure on these issues over time. There are several different issues that can be addressed here. Starting with police growth, I believe that alongside new tools and strengthened laws that give police and prosecutors greater opportunities to get to the criminals, it is clear that the presence and ability of the police to put pressure on the criminal gangs across the country are crucial to increase security and reduce crime. Here I would appreciate a measure of humility on the part of the Moderates. After all, you reduced police training by 90%. 90 percent! First the police are expanded, and then the training places are reduced. Of course you get fewer cops then. It must be long-term in these efforts. We've opened two new police colleges. We've more than doubled admission to police training. We have also changed the admission system, without lowering the requirements for becoming a police officer, and now we see that more and more people want to become a police officer. More and more people are applying for police training, and more and more people are staying. My speaking time is up; I will come back to you in the next speech.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-497	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. First of all, I would like to say that it is fantastic that the government always wants to turn it into the fault of the previous alliance government, regardless of the subject and regardless of what has happened. Stefan Löfven has served as Prime Minister for six years, and Morgan Johansson has been Minister of Justice for the same time. For the same time, Minister Mikael Damberg has also been in the government, and Mikael Damberg has been Minister of the Interior for a year and a half. So it is time to take responsibility for ourselves. The Government often returns to the Government's 34-point programme when he describes the measures and ambitions the Government has to stop gang crime. However, the 34-point programme is now a year old, and yet violence is now at the same level as it was then. Among other things, SVT only paid attention to this today. But the worst of all is that the criminal gangs are becoming increasingly unified in how they behave in society. Why has the situation not been affected more than a year after the government presented what Mikael Damberg in his own interpellation response describes as One reason may be that if you read the 34-point programme carefully it becomes clear that the number of concrete actions here and now is very few. To date, out of the 34 paragraphs, only 3 have resulted in actual legislative changes. Most of the investigative tasks – because that's what the 34 items mainly consist of – should not be finalized for about a year, some as late as 2024. The programme also lacks several proposals. For example, we Moderates have proposed search zones and to allow secret telephone tapping for intelligence purposes. There are also two measures that Mats Löfving, head of the National Operations Department of the Police, called for in the Ecots Saturday interview last week. What is the position of the Government on the two proposals, Mr President? Why aren't they in the government's proposal box? We Moderates have also proposed, among other things, to relax confidentiality rules in order to facilitate cooperation between the police and other authorities, to remove youth discounts and to tighten penalties for gang crime. But perhaps most important of all is the proposal to criminalise associations with organisations whose purpose is criminal activity. It should not be possible to stand guard for a criminal organisation on an open street in Gothenburg. These are proposals that have been successfully implemented in Denmark but which are being rejected by the government. Mr President, I would like to Breaking gang crime isn't impossible. Gothenburgers – or for that matter residents in Stockholm or Malmö, Borås or Sandviken – should not have to accept gang criminals and clans as part of everyday life. No one should have to accept sentries or roadblocks as part of the cityscape. But for this to become a reality, a government that actually cares, understands the problems and takes concrete action is needed. It has succeeded in Denmark, but it will not succeed if you wave these people away as petty gangsters or say they run when the police arrive. Above all, it will not succeed if one believes that the problems can be solved by burying them in investigations. Concrete measures are needed here and now, and so I have to ask the question once again: what does the Council intend to do, concretely, this autumn? When does the Government believe that shootings and violence will decrease with his policy?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-505	Mr President, I would like to Juvenile delinquency has become very serious. It's humiliation robbery, it's gross rape, and it's murder. It's a terrible development. We Moderates want to tighten the penalties and other measures against offenders under the age of 18. Recently several gang members were convicted in Denmark. Two of them were 17 when they committed murder, and in Denmark they received 20 years in prison. In Sweden they had received a maximum of four years in a closed youth home. Then you can think about what it means. "The end" is thought to mean that the home is the end, but it is not Sweden. This summer, three murderers were freed – one of them had failed the murder and been convicted of attempted murder – from such Sis homes. So it is actually adult killers who have been released. Two of them were at Råby Sis-home, where you can have a phone. So I guess they called friends and said, "Now we're sitting here, and it's really boring." Can you come and get us? The friends came there and threatened through a grate of some kind, and then it was for these two adult killers to basically just walk out. That doesn't make any sense. It's supposed to be a closed institution, and yet two adult killers can basically just call someone and say, "Can you come and help me?" I want to get out. In fact, I find it quite embarrassing for the justice system in Sweden at all. What does Mikael Damberg intend to do in the short term to prevent this from happening again? I don't mean five years from now.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-509	Mr President, I would like to I can't believe I thought Aftonbladet was related to Minister Damberg. But I can read aloud:. Stefan Löfven says that he, like everyone else, took part in the tasks during the weekend. But he does not want to comment on whether they are actually clans coming from other countries. ..................................................... If we assume that the journalists are not lying and if we assume that the Prime Minister has spoken correctly, the question must remain: Why have the ministers Damberg or Johansson not informed the Prime Minister of this serious situation in Sweden? Would it not have been appropriate to take the Prime Minister aside at any time and say that you need five minutes to tell us about this situation? Or, according to Damberg, Stefan Löfven lied at the press conference on Monday. He lied to the entire Swedish people because he had knowledge. You have to decide: either he knew about it, or he didn't know about it. What, then, are the consequences of this? I was in Sandviken yesterday and met a small business owner who opened three months ago. He's got a service store. Three store windows he's had crushed in the last two weeks. His deductible for them is three times 12,000, that is, 36 000 crowns. He has gangs that come into his shop and just pick for themselves, and when he tries to tell them, they answer, "We know where you live. We know where your family lives. This will take place in Sandviken in Sweden in 2020. When you called the police, it took over two hours before they arrived. It's the reality of my country. When will this development turn around?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-513	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I must turn to the Social Democrats' mantra that the Alliance would have stopped admission to police training. It was a semester during these eight years that there was no admission to police training, and it was at the request of the National Police Board. The reason was that the goals had already been achieved. Overall, during the year of the Alliance, far more police officers were trained than before, and we increased the number of police officers from 17,000 to 20,000. I therefore think that Mikael Damberg should stop repeating that myth in the debate. With regard to the 34-point programme, there are a dozen proposals in what comes from the Moderates and other opposition parties. Not infrequently have there been announcements from the Riksdag that are behind this. So I think it will be a little wrong when Mikael Damberg takes credit for the 34-item programme. The problem with the programme is not the proposals themselves, but that there is so much being put into investigations rather than making sharp proposals. Investigations do not cause criminal gangs to be intimidated very much, and it does not make beautiful words about crushing the gangs either. There are no criminal gangs that worry about it at all. For example, I and the Moderates miss the discussion about legislation against membership and dealing with criminal gangs. We lack strong action against the abuse of the coordination number – there are some half-hearted proposals, but they are not enough. I do not have a serious discussion about the possibility of using anonymous testimony as additional evidence, and I do not have a reduced criminality age. There's a lot that you miss in this 34-point program. I wonder how Mikael Damberg stands up to the very things I have now listed. Is there anything that might be willing to add to the program? Above all, I wonder: can we expect something to happen during this term of office, or is everything to be postponed to the future? Then how are we supposed to scare the gangs off their business?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-518	Mr President, I would like to I was going to use this post to talk about prevention. It is important that children and young people get a solid education. We have talked a lot of order in classrooms and schools, and we have also talked about students being able to make choices that take them out to work. We Moderates have pointed out that this is the best preventive measure, that is, to create freedom for the individual and his family to influence their own lives. I cannot see that the government has said that this is the case. Often we have heard of white spots or lack of security and prevention. It was interesting to hear what the Prime Minister had to say yesterday. He didn't say it was exclusion but that it was about that there are environments where children don't see parents and other adults go to work. The Prime Minister pointed out that this is a problem. I would like to ask Minister Mikael Damberg whether we agree if the main issue is not to have an education, that is to say to get through school and get into work, before important measures are taken for the situations that have not been able to go that way.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-522	Mr President, I would like to Let me describe what has happened during the year. Over a thousand new policemen have been recruited during the year, which greatly reinforces the police around the country. They are still too few, and the police need to continue to grow with the 3,000 who are in police training now and who will be in business in the future. Last year the police put up over a hundred new cameras in the most vulnerable areas, and there will be more during the year. This was something to show what is happening here and now to strengthen the organisation that exists to combat crime. In the autumn, the police will have better opportunities to search the premises. I will receive an inquiry into this in the autumn. This is very important. We are abolishing the penalty discount for young people in the event of serious crime. We're imposing the penalty for youth surveillance. It is a new sanction for young people, which will enter into force on 1 January 2021. There will be discussions anyway. I can't get the Moderates' criticism of the 34-point program together. Is it a good program or a bad program? Sometimes it sounds like it's a bad program that doesn't contain anything. Then I hear that almost all the points are the Moderates' points in the program. What's it gonna be? The reason we are putting forward proposals that cannot be implemented right now is because we want new proposals on the table and more legislation. If we had a programme where there was no need for legislation, there would be no need for investigations. If investigations had already been in place, we could have picked them up. They weren't there! We need to investigate new, tightened laws or new tools for the Police Department. Without investigations, legislation cannot be changed. I think Parliament knows that. Let's look at the Moderates' favorite proposals for membership or association in criminal organisations. How long will it take to implement? Are you going to do this without an investigation? It's even a constitutional issue. You must have an intermediate choice. How does it do something here and now? I'm not saying it's a stupid proposal-- you can discuss it if you want-- but it doesn't change anything here and now. And this is your big profile question to do something about the criminal gangs. It doesn't make any sense. If there's to be new, sharp penalties, they need to be investigated. If the police are to be given new tools, they must be investigated. If you produce old stuff, they do not need to be investigated, but then we do not get any new ability in the Swedish judicial system. Then there was the question of prevention. Is it possible to reverse this situation? It will be exciting to see, for example where the police have done the most power collections in Malmö– Malmö was mentioned earlier. In Malmö we have seen more than a halved number of shootings. This is because the police have accumulated their strength there – at most during Operation Rimfrost. This is also because the municipalities, police and other actors work in a coordinated manner and press hard on the gangs. And it seems to be producing results. I also think that the experience from Uppsala during Operation Rimfrost showed that there were no shootings. This means that the 21 additional services provided to Uppsala enabled Uppsala to push back the gangs in a different way than usual. Now the number of police officers has to grow. That's why I come back to the fact that the new police officers across the country are absolutely crucial to pushing back the gangs. Preventive work is great. I'd love to have a big discussion about it, but I think this is the blind spot of the Moderates. You talk too little about how to reduce recruitment to the criminal gangs. It was telling that when, in our budget, we directed resources to the most segregated areas of intervention in schools and social services, this was something that you saved and lowered the tax for when you had the chance to do so, that is, the M-KD budget that was supported by the Swedish Democrats. It was short-term. Now we see the problems in those areas. We will have to invest more in those areas in order to increase the performance of schools and give municipalities the opportunity to intervene, not least to place some of the children who do not belong in those environments.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-534	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the debate, although I do not know if we have come so much further. With regard to the 34-point programme, I think we can sign on to every point. It is not the content that we criticise; it is the implementation. It is one thing to carry out, and it is another thing to bury in investigations. Politics is for me about what kind of society you want. As a moderate, I don't want a community with gunfire on the street. I do not want a Gothenburg where anyone who calls the police is kidnapped and beaten, where the police are surrounded and threatened, where criminal gangs set up roadblocks and put out sentinels in the middle of the city while they themselves settle for justice. The criminal structures of society must be destroyed because they threaten our entire judicial system and the legitimacy of our society as a whole. The residents of Angered, Backa, Biskopsgården and Frölunda, but for that matter in Gothenburg and the rest of Sweden, must not lose faith and hope. Then we've lost. We must show that together we can destroy crime and restore the rule of law. The Government has presented its 34-point programme where most of the investigations will only be reported next year. So are we going to have to stand in this Chamber again in a year's time and have the same debate, Mr President? The Government concluded its interpellation response to me by saying that the government has no plans to slow down. No, it's too well. The problem is that there does not seem to be any ambition on the part of the Government to speed up. Meanwhile, the violence continues.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-540	Mr President, I would like to I do not think this is the last time we will discuss these important issues. They really affect the whole of Sweden. I am keen that this interpellation is actually met with seriosity and respect because this is one of our greatest social problems. We shouldn't get used to the violence. That's why we're going to power-gather. Let me be a little ideological at the end, namely that it is a question of creating a stronger society. For me as a social democrat, when I get the chance, I will give priority to investments in the police, investments in the judiciary, investments in schools and social services before tax cuts. The state, society, is too weak and has been for a period of time. Now we need to move the state's capacity so that we actually prevent gang crime and ensure that young people are not drawn into the criminal environment. We must be able to discuss both issues at the same time. I am absolutely convinced that this can be done. But I do not think that the police will be able to do this by themselves, even if they have more resources, new laws and new tools in their backs to fight criminals. These are new proposals that have not been tabled before, although further changes in police day-to-day life and new legislation are already in place this autumn. It's about the whole community having to stop. What we have talked about too little today are the other authorities, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Immigration Service and the Swedish Public Employment Service. Those authorities, together with the police, can frame the gangs and clans in a way that the police cannot handle on their own. The joint work of government, squeezing gangs from all sides, also shows the full power of society at its best. We have developed this during this period, and we shall continue to develop it. We should not get used to this development, we should push back crime and we should continue to change up the work. This is a work that I take very seriously. My main task as Minister of the Interior is to continue to make the police grow. We are ahead of the forecast of the growth of the police, and we will continue to make the police grow strongly in the coming years.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-545	Mr President, I would like to Gudrun Brunegård has asked me if I see any reason to clarify, through an independent study, why Sweden has up to now chosen, in its explanation of the cause of the tragedy in Ndola, to blame the injured Swedish pilot, and whether I intend to reconsider the Swedish attitude so far and open up to the possibility of external causes behind the crash, based on Mossberg's report. I welcome the opportunity, as this means, to clarify this government's position on the issue of the death of Dag Hammarskjöld and the other people on board the Albertina aircraft. Let me state that the two questions asked by Gudrun Brunegård are based on wrong assumptions. Since 2014, the government has acted to clarify and thus since taken the position that an attack or threat may be possible causes of the crash. At the same time, I would like to thank Gudrun Brunegård for raising the issue of the circumstances surrounding the death of Dag Hammarskjöld. I welcome the fact that there continues to be a great deal of interest in this issue. For the government, it is a high priority that the matter continues to be investigated. Since 2014, when the then independent investigation commission established that new evidence had emerged, the government has consistently pushed for the reversal of all stones and for the UN to investigate the cause of death further. Since then, the government has often stated that other reasons than pilot errors may be at least as likely. It is therefore wrong to talk about some turnaround in recent times. On the contrary, the government has been pushing for clarity and for the possibility of an attack causing the crash to be thoroughly tested. This has been done through a number of resolutions on Swedish initiative, negotiated by Sweden at the UN General Assembly, which resulted in the Secretary-General appointing an independent investigator with a broad mandate to investigate the matter further. During the course of the investigation, Sweden has on several occasions supported the investigator's conclusions and made our line clear in several press statements that the investigation must continue. More information is likely to take the case forward. The government has also stated that the conclusions of the current investigator, Mohamed Chande Othman, that it is reasonable to believe that an attack or threat caused the crash should be taken very seriously. The government's current position is therefore not that it agrees with the conclusion that a pilot error would be the cause of the air crash – quite the contrary. In the context of the 2017 Resolution, Member States were asked to appoint special investigators to report from the national archives. Mathias Mossberg was appointed by the government to carry out this work. Mossberg also received an additional assignment to write a report on his experience of the investigation mission and at the same time highlight Sweden's handling of the matter. We asked Mossberg to take on this additional assignment precisely to find out if further information regarding the previous Swedish handling of the issue was found in Swedish archives. This report, like Mathias Mossberg's other reports, was carefully completed. We do not question the circumstantial evidence that Brunegård refers to in Mossberg's report on the so-called reversals in Sweden's position during 1961–1962 and 1992–1993. I can also note that this issue has previously been investigated by the then ambassador Bengt Rösiö with a report issued in 1993. His conclusions do not coincide with those of Mossberg or the UN investigator. Furthermore, it may be worth noting that the then bourgeois government, before the turn of the government in 2014, chose not to act for clarity, for example through an international UN investigation based on the new tasks. As Mathias Mossberg stated in his report, additional information or traces are unlikely to be found in the Swedish archives. For the government, therefore, there appears to be a limited basis for conducting a study of the kind proposed by Brunegård. The government has been careful to explain in a transparent way the conclusions of Mathias Mossberg's work. Among other things, we invited relatives, interested, researchers and private scouts to a seminar at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs after the assignment ended. Our main priority is to continue to focus on providing support for the UN-led investigation. The government has raised the issue both nationally and internationally and had close contacts with the families of the aircraft crew and other stakeholders. We are particularly concerned that the relatives of those who were tragically killed in Ndola nearly 60 years ago will receive as many answers as possible.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-558	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for this clarification from the government regarding the attitude surrounding the tragic air disaster, when Dag Hammarskjöld and the other passengers and crew aboard Albertina perished. The Swedish people, and especially the families of the victims, have the right to know the truth about what happened, and why, 60 years after the incident. It is interesting that the government believes that since 2014 it has taken the view that an attack or a threat may be possible causes of the crash, but every issue discussed in the UN General Assembly does not always reach the Swedish population. Nor is it all-inclusive to be able to interpret indirect messages as meaning that the fact that you want to examine newly added witness assignments means that you have changed your position. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now speaking clearly here in the Swedish Parliament about the government's willingness to clarify the real cause of the air failure. It is good that the Swedish Government supports the work of independent investigator Mohamed Chande Othman appointed by the UN Secretary-General. It was therefore an important decision to appoint former ambassador Mathias Mossberg to search Swedish archives for the pieces that can be found there, which can contribute to a better overall picture of what happened. Over the years, other important documents and memos have also emerged from private archives. One such example is the notes made by Major Olle Ljungkvist from Hultsfred. He was in UN service in Congo at the time and was the one who closed the aircraft door on Albertina before she took off on the fatal journey from Léopoldville to Ndola. The document was stored for some twenty years at the family Hammarskjöld manor Tuna farm outside Vimmerby. It was sent and delivered to Othman and arrived before his report in 2019. In all likelihood, similar eyewitness reports are available in private archives among Swedish UN veterans and companies – Swedish and foreign – that were active in or had contacts with the mining industry in Katanga and Nordrhodesia. All of these can be significant pieces of the puzzle that together can help clarify events. But who is responsible for calling for them? And where will they be sent if you find something that might be of interest? The UN's independent investigator, Judge Othman, does not know Swedish, and Mathias Mossberg's mission is completed. If Judge Othman needs to ask supplementary questions or ask for further information, to whom will he turn? Has the government appointed a new contact person for interim contacts with UN investigator Judge Othman, and if so, who? These are important questions, to which I assume the Minister for Foreign Affairs has answers.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-567	Mr President, I would like to On October 7, 2019, the latest report from Othman was released. It confirms the conclusions previously drawn, i.e. that it seems reasonable that an attack or threat may have caused the crash in Ndola in September 1961. At the same time, the investigator notes that more work needs to be done and that a number of Member States have not yet provided adequate information. According to the investigator, these are mainly the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia and South Africa. Sweden is mentioned as one of the countries that reported exemplaryly and fully cooperated with the independent investigator. I and other government representatives regularly raise the issue in contact with other countries that are particularly relevant for moving forward in the process as well as in talks with UN representatives. The UN investigator's latest report concluded in recommendations that the independent investigator should be given a mandate to continue the investigation, that key Member States should be given the task of re-aligning or extending ongoing missions, and that conclusions should be drawn by the investigator on whether the Member States have followed the process set out in the resolution and what the consequences have been if this is not the case. In this light, the government again initiated a new General Assembly resolution, which was adopted unanimously only on 27 December 2019 and extended the investigator's mandate. Mohamed Chande Othman thus has a mandate to continue the investigation. We continue to monitor this work closely by the Government and contribute, among other things, to contacts and technical assistance where necessary. The Government has also strived for openness and transparency in our work on the issue. Among other things, government representatives have participated in interviews, and a number of press statements have been made since 2014, particularly in connection with the adoption of a new resolution. When Mathias Mossberg finished his assignment, we invited relatives, interested, researchers and private reconnaissants to a seminar at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, where the investigation work and its conclusions were described in detail. The government also has a close and frequent dialogue with the relatives of those who were so tragically killed in Ndola almost 60 years ago.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-574	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. But the question remains: Is there any named contact person at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs who is in contact with Othman now that Mossberg's mission has been completed? It would be interesting to know. Let me turn to another thread, the one on an independent investigation of the Swedish governments' handling of the issue. What diplomatic and or commercial considerations were behind the Swedish oscillation about the cause of the air crash? This is a mystery after the openly critical attitude towards the way in which the Rhodesians conducted the investigations and which led Prime Tage Erlander to declare in the Riksdag that the Rudholm working group would critically examine all the information that came out. As Mathias Mossberg then puts it: when the working group delivered its report in May 1962, it had reworded and limited its mandate. It was no longer a matter of reviewing and evaluating, let alone critically reviewing it. Instead, the Rudholm working group drew its conclusion close to the North-Rhodesian on pilot errors. The critical reports from the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and the Swedish Criminal Tribunal, which could contradict this, were classified. Why? The Minister for Foreign Affairs rejects the need to investigate this with the argument that there is probably no further information or trace to be found in the Swedish archives. But among the tasks there may well be enough pieces of the puzzle to clarify the picture. Mathias Mossberg notes, however, that in the investigation he did then it was not his task to investigate this. He writes: Above, some aspects of the Swedish authorities' handling of the issue have been highlighted. Questions have been raised about the background to the Swedish positions over the years. These issues deserve further discussion. But the task here is not to make a full evaluation of the Swedish handling of the issue but only to highlight more important aspects of this. Within the framework of this investigation, it has not been possible to determine more precisely where these ambiguities and discrepancies are based. Finally, it may be justified to recall the UN's request to Member States to make all relevant documentation on the matter available and to suspend any confidentiality. There is not much in Swedish archives that is still classified on this issue. Given the time since the events in Ndola in 1961, there are no longer reasonable grounds for maintaining the confidentiality of material relevant to the issue. So there is still classified material 59 years after the incident. Why didn't Mossberg get access to this? Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs prepared to release the secrecy now to give further pieces of the puzzle about what consideration the then Swedish government apparently thought it necessary to take when it stopped critically examining and instead adapted to the interests of the North rhodesian colonial power? Or were there other interests weighing heavier than the truth told by a wide range of eyewitnesses with accompanying airplanes and powerful lights in the direction of the plane? This is Sweden's own business; it is Swedish history. We can't ask the UN investigators to get to grips with that. His mission is to investigate the circumstances and causes of the fatal crash. The question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs wants to participate and push for the truth to become known about the driving forces that affected Sweden's actions almost 60 years ago and in the early 1990s.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-582	Madam President, I would like Unlike the previous bourgeois government, what we have been doing all along since we took office in 2014 is trying to get the truth out. I maintain that the government took a consequence decision when new evidence came to light. And it was self-evident to push to re-establish the investigation into the plane crash that led to the death of Dag Hammarskjöld and the crew aboard Albertina. As has been said, the government has repeatedly supported the conclusions reached by the UN's independent investigators, which differ from the conclusions of the original Rhodesian investigation. As regards a survey of the Swedish handling of the Swedish investigations that have taken place over the years, we have, through Mathias Mossberg's report and other sources, taken note of what is described as fluctuations in the government's position. The government does not question this but cannot explain or confirm the reasons for this. Given the circumstances that existed at the time of Dag Hammarskjöld's death, it cannot be excluded that diplomatic and real political considerations could at that time be an explanation. We will continue to follow this closely. Our immediate priority will be to provide support for the UN-led investigation. Countries that have still not completed reporting need to do so, and access to closed archives needs to be provided. As Mathias Mossberg stated in his report, there is probably no further information or trace to be found in the Swedish archives. For the government, therefore, there appears to be a limited basis for conducting a study of the kind proposed by Brunegård. The government has been careful to explain in a transparent way the conclusions of Mathias Mossberg's work. And as I have pointed out before, we have invited relatives, interested people, researchers and private scouts to a seminar to discuss and come up with their views after Mossberg's work has been completed. Our main priority is to continue to focus on providing support for the UN-led investigation. The government has raised the issue both nationally and internationally and has had close contacts with families, aircraft crew and other stakeholders. We are particularly concerned that the relatives of those who were tragically killed in Ndola almost 60 years ago will receive as many answers as possible.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-590	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Madam Foreign Minister. Obviously, as Mr Mossberg points out, we still have classified documents in Sweden that could shed light on what actually led to the diplomatic balances that Sweden did. I am surprised if the Foreign Minister does not see that there could be a great historical interest in mapping this and getting to the bottom of it. In my argument for the need for an independent working group that examines the Swedish governments' handling of the issue of Dag Hammarskjöld's death in 1961–1962 and 1992–1993, I would like to highlight further aspects. There are therefore still Swedish classified documents on the matter, despite the fact that Sweden has called on other countries to open their archives through UN resolutions. Why hasn't the seal been revoked for these? Shouldn't Sweden lead by example and bring out our own laundry in the light, if there is one? We should be able to handle it after 60 years. Although we are now impatiently waiting for British, Belgian, French, Americans, Congolese and Zambians to place their archives and classified documents at the disposal of Judge Othman, there are other interesting reports that provide important pieces of the puzzle for Swedish action, including Norwegian. Norway was both a member of NATO and had UN troops in Congo, where the seal was released a few years ago. When the Minister says that there is no more to be retrieved from Swedish archives, an independent working group with historical and legal expertise could certainly complement the picture with what is on the other side of Kölen and in other countries. I maintain that it is Sweden's responsibility to investigate the actions of the Swedish governments in this matter, not those of the United Nations, for the sake of sound history.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-597	Madam President, I would like I place great value on Gudrun Brunegård's commitment to this issue. We share the same goals and hopes of getting closer to the truth about what happened in Ndola nearly 60 years ago. Given the international dimension of the event, the high public interest and the importance of the family members receiving further answers, the Government continues to be very keen to ensure that the Hammarskjöld case is adequately followed up. At the same time, we have realistic expectations. What we can demand is that the UN and all its Member States do everything possible to find out what actually happened to aircraft Se-BDY-BDY. We owe it to the families of those who passed away almost 60 years ago, the UN as an organisation and all those who today work in the spirit of Dag Hammarskjöld. Let me conclude with a tribute to Dag Hammarskjöld, his life and his work. As Sweden's only Secretary General of the United Nations, he has left a mark on international diplomacy as few other Swedes.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-601	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me about the criteria and principles I have proposed as a guide to the work of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs regarding previous travel advice regarding the Nordic countries, how I have justified the travel advice for the Nordic countries when there are at the same time agreements for consular assistance to the citizens between the Nordic countries and whether I have taken into account how travel restrictions in the Nordic countries can in the long term affect the feeling of Nordic belonging between the citizens. The Coronapendemin has brought major challenges to many parts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' responsibilities, including our disadvantage instrument. In this debate, I would like to take this opportunity to explain how we have acted during the pandemic. As Hans Wallmark already knows, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided on 14 March 2020 to advise against unnecessary travel to all countries. The rapid spread of the new coronavirus affects travelling conditions in a way that we have never experienced before. The situation for Swedish travellers was characterised by new risks and a rapidly changing and unpredictable situation. There was a need to send a strong signal to Swedish travellers that it was not the right time to travel. The unique decision to dissuade non-necessary travel to all countries was made mainly because of the uncertainty arising from the measures taken by countries to manage a c ovid-19, which could relate, for example, to closed borders or restrictions on entry and exit opportunities, quarantine rules and curfews. It was not primarily the spread of infection that was the basis for our advice, but the possibility for Swedes to travel to, reside in and leave a country with regard to restrictions imposed. These criteria have since been a starting point for the exceptions to the global advice from non-necessary journeys that we have decided on during the summer, even if a disadvantage decision is always made on the basis of an overall assessment. The possibility for Swedish travellers to receive support when travelling abroad, both from local authorities and from our foreign authorities, is part of this assessment. This very fact is an important reason why, since the beginning of the summer, we have chosen to distinguish countries within the EU, the EEA and Schengen, which include the Nordic countries. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has already lifted the advice for many countries in the EU, the EEA and Schengen. It is important for us to continue to take steps in this direction in a responsible manner. No matter what we do, there will be boundaries. We find ourselves in an extraordinary and complex situation. This is exemplified, among other things, by how different Nordic countries have acted regarding, among other things, the introduction of entry and quarantine regulations. On 29 July, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs considered that it was possible to withdraw the advice from non-necessary journeys to Denmark and Norway. Due to the fact that Finland still has entry restrictions for all Swedish travellers who have no special reasons, we have made the assessment that the advice regarding Finland cannot yet be lifted. During the pandemic, we have had a very close dialogue between the Nordic countries. It has been and is about difficult decisions in a complicated and changing situation. That they would have the character of punitive countermeasures, as Mr Wallmark puts it, I can definitely deny. In this context, it is also important to remember that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' decision is about the disadvantage of non-necessary travel. A refusal is not a restriction in the same way as, for example, an entry ban. As Mr Wallmark rightly points out, Sweden has chosen not to close the borders of travellers from our Scandinavian neighbours or from countries within the EU in general. In the dialogue with our neighbouring countries, we have highlighted the negative consequences of entry restrictions, not least for our border regions. Of course, we want to return to a Nordic region without travel restrictions and advice, but in the extraordinary situation we still find ourselves in, there are still no conditions for this. At the same time, I am convinced that covid ‐ 19 has shown that we must continue to develop cooperation between the Nordic countries and within the EU in order to achieve better coordination.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-615	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. First of all, let me point out to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that, since the travel restrictions were imposed on 14 March, the government, and not least the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been careful to emphasise that this has nothing to do with the infection itself, but with the difficulty of providing consular assistance. We also know, and it has been the subject of chamber discussions that both the Left Party's Håkan Svenneling and the undersigned participated in, that there have been distress calls from people who have been trapped in different parts of the world, from Peru to Indonesia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs worked for a number of weeks for high pressure to try to help and assist those you could – but not all – and people were flown home from Morocco, the Canary Islands and other places. This is the absolute picture of why these travel restrictions have existed. At the same time, let us recognise that these months in terms of pandemic management and the various regulatory frameworks that have developed have neither been the finest months of the European Union nor Nordic cooperation. It has been uncoordinated and unclear, and for many people it has been incomprehensible why it has been this way. So there is reason to consider both what has happened and what should not be done in the future if something similar should happen. Madam President, I would like I went into the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' website and read, and there is a fairly long and developing text about travel advice. It says, for example, when the Ministry for Foreign Affairs advises against travel, it is always a signal that the security situation is serious. The reason why the advice is lifted for these countries is that they have decided to open up to travellers from Sweden. ..................................................... I would therefore like, after all, to deny the rement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs a little, even if she tried to say so emphasisely. I find it difficult to see in full that the measures that Sweden, through the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, has aimed at our Nordic neighbours with travel advice have little more than the character of a little retaliation. I understand that it was felt for the government when, initially during the pandemic, Swedish citizens were suddenly faced with closed borders with Denmark, Norway and Finland – with everything it has also meant in the border areas, where this was perhaps more than in other places. Madam President, I would like If you are stuck in Peru or in the Canary Islands it is quite complicated to get home. It is somewhat easier physically and geographically to get from Denmark to Sweden, from Norway to Sweden or from Finland to Sweden. In addition, Sweden has consular assistance agreements with these countries. If you cannot get help at the Swedish Embassy or from Swedish staff in another country, you can always go to the Nordic Embassy and knock on the door. They have an obligation to provide consular assistance. I would like to emphasise, Madam President, that it is a special case with the Nordic countries in relation to – indeed – all the other countries in the world. Madam President, I would like Today's Svenska Dagbladet has a large double spread with the Foreign Trade Minister and also the Nordic Coordination Minister. It is also a little bit about a previous interpellation debate that this minister happened to have with me. The whole article on two ideas is basically about the deteriorating situation in the Nordic region. I believe that closed borders with Sweden but also Swedish travel advice with our Nordic neighbours have contributed to this deteriorating climate.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-623	Madam President, I would like It is not often that you, as a foreign policy speaker, feel like a local politician again. But this has been the case with the closed Nordic borders under the coronapandemine. For me as a Heater it is of course mainly the Norwegian border that has been in focus, but I have also taken note of the problems that have been found both in Tornedalen and in Skåne. We are many politicians who have tried to open the borders. Calls have been made and video meetings have been held, but it has been clear that all politicians in different Nordic countries have believed that their country's strategy is the most excellent one. When it comes to the Swedish-Norwegian relationship, or rather our strategies to meet the coronapandemia, one big problem has been that the strategies have actively opposed each other. Norway, unlike Sweden, has succeeded better with low spread of infection. This was because they had many restrictive measures and partly shut down society and perhaps also closed borders. The Swedish strategy will of course be analysed. We are not going to debate it now, but it is good that it has come to a Swedish Corona Commission. However, as a warming foreigner, a major outbreak in Stockholm did not mean any closures or clear restrictions on the Stockholm region, like other places that we saw around the world. For those of us who live in the border regions, the so-called two-hour rule, which existed during the spring, was not so bad. As a result, people across Sweden limited their travel patterns. In fact, for a while it seemed that neighbouring countries, such as Norway, would open up to their border regions, precisely because no Stockholmers could cross the border. The border with Norway is most important to me as a warmer, just as the border with Denmark is most important for a show. But when the two-hour rule was removed, the border closures in the Nordic countries became more fixed in form. The Swedish strategy clearly opposed the Norwegian strategy. But even the Norwegian strategy definitely has its faults and shortcomings. A very statistical model has been chosen with a number of criteria where the most important is the number of infected per 100 000 in the last 14 days. This measure has meant that regions in other Nordic countries have been classified as red or green, i.e. if you can visit them or not. Therefore, Swedish regions have first been opened and then closed. First it was only Gotland, then Västerbotten and Småland opened and then they closed again. When Sweden finally got started on its testing and caught up in more cases, this led to the Norwegian strategy closing the borders and regions becoming red marked. The Norwegian strategy apparently countered the Swedish strategy with increased testing. For Värmland, many people have had to take the fall, especially companies. It's everything from large shopping malls to small country merchants and car workshops. The lack of long-termism has created twitchiness when the border was first opened on 24 July and then closed two and a half weeks later and then reopened three weeks later. Now it's been open for a week. The question arises as to when it will be closed down rather than knowing that it will be open in the long term. Now we're in a new position. Since a few days back, the spread of infection in Sweden is lower than in Norway for the first time since the pandemic started. By Norwegian standards, the whole of Norway is now red. You can be happy about this as a left-wing party or as a social democrat, but in this case it is wrong. But I am glad that we Swedes do not panic or fear Norway. I think that much of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' strategy has been a good job at a difficult time. There are now many important elements to discuss in order to develop cooperation. Let me give you a few brief examples. I think the Nordic Association's idea of a Nordic Corona Commission is something we should look at from all parties. I think we can consider whether we should not pay attention to the Nordic passport union, which turns 70 in 2022. And, above all, in the long term, we need to strengthen our joint preparedness.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-636	Madam President, I would like I will come back to parts because I do not have time to say everything at the same time. I will begin with what Mr Wallmark, in particular, raised about the Foreign Affairs Department's rejection of travel. It is just a piece of advice and a recommendation. A recommendation does not constitute a ban on travel, and the decisions that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken under the coronapndemin and which also includes the Nordic countries have not meant that Sweden has closed the borders to Swedes who want to or need to travel to our neighbouring countries. It is always an individual decision whether you choose to travel or not. It should also be recalled that a decision of the Council is taken on the basis of the best interests of the traveller. It may thus seem to go against other Swedish interests, but we have first and foremost to relate to the safety of our travellers. There are not often many individuals, organisations and companies who think that we should introduce a disadvantage for a specific country, and there are those who think that we should lift such a disadvantage to the same country. A disadvantage decision never pleases everyone, but it is decisions that have to be taken. During the pandemic we have done this in the same way as before, i.e. based on an overall assessment with the Swedish traveller in focus. The Coronapandemy has meant that we have taken a number of unique disadvantage decisions in an extraordinary and complicated situation. In a rapidly changing world, we have used the disadvantaged instrument in the most stringent and predictable way possible. On the basis of global assessments, we have chosen to lift the advice of a number of countries in our neighbourhood, that is, the EU, the EEA and the Schengen area. In this work we have based on the conditions that exist for a Swedish travel to and from the countries. Since several of the Nordic countries, like many other European countries, have or have had entry and quarantine restrictions on Swedish travellers, there have been reasons for a rejection of unnecessary journeys to our Nordic neighbours as well. It is therefore because of the restrictions in other countries, including our Nordic neighbours, that we have taken these decisions. As Hans Wallmark himself stated, Sweden has allowed the borders with the Nordic countries to be open during the pandemic. We have had the same rules for travellers from EU countries, the UK, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland. We in the Swedish Government have based our decision not to close the borders with these countries on the recommendations that come from, among others, the European disease control authority ECDC that border closures are not an effective means of combating the infection. This is also the position of the Swedish Public Health Agency. Other countries have made other choices. It is too early to tell which choices have been right. However, the follow-up work should be done, regardless of this, because we all need to evaluate and learn about how we and others have managed this pandemic.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-644	Madam President, I would like When the pandemic began and began to rage, there was no manual to go and look up and see that this is how it should be handled. It is clear that the ability in a number of countries to deal with a forthcoming pandemic is much better after what we have now suffered than it was before. It is mainly in border areas – we have listed them: Norrbotten, Tornedalen, Värmland, Bohuslän and the Öresund region – as the closed borders for Swedish citizens, travel advice and travel recommendations have perhaps been felt the hardest and also perceived as most frustrating and in some sense provocative, not least initially because it was very closed, locked and closed. These are areas that have historically always been based on openness and movement, and in some parts not least on border trade that have been the prerequisites for jobs, employment and the living municipality. Madam President, I would like That is why what we have experienced is painful. I have to use this word. Then you also have to think about whether everything has been right and right. Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling mentioned a few things during the last 15 seconds of his post. I just want to follow them up. I also find the idea of a Nordic Corona Commission quite interesting. I also think that there is reason to celebrate the idea of the Nordic passport freedom that came well before the European passport and Schengen. That is something to be fundamentally proud of. Precisely with this pride, there is also reason to be a little sad about how we have handled the pandemic between the Nordic countries. The Nordic Corona Commission is dismissed in the article in Svenska Dagbladet to which I referred. The responsible minister thought it was a bad idea. I'm afraid she spoke for the government. Let me just remind you that the Moderates ran the idea of a Swedish Corona Commission. We had a counterattack, and it was dismissed. Then the Swedish Government finally appointed a Swedish Corona Commission, and that was a good thing. In the introduction to the article, referring to the Foreign Minister's colleague Anna Hallberg says: She first says she's worried. Tastes the word, and then changes it Anna Hallberg does not seem to be afraid to say what she thinks, but in the study at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs diplomacy may be in the warm yellow walls. ..................................................... I think it's right to speak plain language. I think it is right that the Government says that one should be concerned and concerned. That is why the travel advice that has been put in place has just contributed to the spiral that has turned downwards in the deteriorating situation of northerners. Madam President, I would like I know that the government has repeatedly said that the relationship with the other Nordic countries is the best. We can call each other, and we can try to solve problems. It could be the capitals in between. The problem is that for the ordinary people it has not been this way. That is why I believe that this should be taken seriously. Then it is actually the case that some of our neighbours have had closed borders but still with the possibility of their own openness, i.e. that they have been able to go from Norway to Värmland but then have been quarantined for two weeks when they have come home. What I am also partly calling for, and which I still do not think I have received a proper answer to, is basically what a guiding principle it has been. I believe that the guiding principle has been that closed borders with Swedes meet with a travel advice from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. I do not think that is a sufficiently honourable principle.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-655	Madam President, I would like We land a lot in how to take the Nordic region forward now. What used to work with telephone calls, quick contacts and easy roads between the Nordic capitals has now proved to be not working this time during the coronapdemin when it became at its most stressful in any sense in all foreign departments. This means that we need to take a new look and take a look at Nordic cooperation. It is important that we start this discussion in Sweden and discuss which way we think we should go. Then you can take this discussion in a larger Nordic context. Then the kind of ideas that come up are things that we need to highlight, discuss and think about. A Nordic Corona Commission could have a comparative effect between the different countries' strategies. One could discuss a Nordic context in particular. Why did they choose five different strategies? How could this happen? In this way you can analyse how to move forward. I think it's important to look back in time. Then the passport union is something that we have been holding on to for a long time. It turns 70 in two years. I think it's an excellent idea that Sweden is pushing on to highlight the basic values that came out in the 1950s and that we somehow need to reconnect to now. The Passport Union has been a model for Schengen cooperation and other types of cross-border cooperation around the world. If we can demonstrate the values that the passport union has given to the Nordic countries, it is time for us to highlight them. Otherwise, every time you have a problem, you risk saying that you close the border. It could be gang crime, migratory waves or something else. It will always damage Nordic cooperation in the long term.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-658	Madam President, I would like There are several differences in the measures taken in the different Nordic countries to deal with the pandemic. We would have liked to have had a dialogue about the decisions affecting travel and trade across our Nordic borders. Given what the Nordic neighbours mean to each other – we are often each other's most important trading partners, and 65 000 people work commutes normally across the Nordic borders – the decisions to close the borders gave several obvious negative consequences, not least at local and regional level, which Håkan Svenneling has pointed to several times in particular. For example, Norwegian citizens' border trade decreased by 99 per cent in the second quarter. The Norwegian system for categorising Nordic areas as a basis for quarantine for incoming residents, where among other things the number of new confirmed positive cases should be less than 20 per 100,000 inhabitants in the last two weeks, has led to some Swedish counties having gone from being open to being closed and reopened. It gave Håkan Svenneling concrete proof of that. When Norway again introduced quarantine requirements for travellers from Värmland, among others, on 12 August, only three weeks after the border trade started again – where the Värmland key figure was 20.2 per 100 000, i.e. it was 0.2 over the border and concerned fewer than ten infected persons – both I and Minister for Foreign Trade Anna Hallberg pointed out that this was a decision that had completely disproportionate consequences. The Norwegian Public Health Institute, FHI, is now recommending the re-introduction of quarantine requirements for Jämtland. The recommendations come just a few days after the Norwegian Government has opened the border with Jämtland. This is based on very small changes in the transmission statistics. This type of behaviour creates an unpredictability and uncertainty which has serious consequences for individuals and for trade in border regions. This is exactly the example I used yesterday at an official meeting with all the NB8 countries, the Nordic and Baltic countries, with a significant focus. In the Öresund region, approximately 15 000 commute daily, and about 90 percent of them commute from Sweden to Denmark. According to the latest figures, 11 percent of commuters from Skåne work in Danish health care. Denmark also introduced a requirement for six days of hotel stay even for those who were allowed into Denmark. To me, this seems incomprehensible. If you are now afraid of infection from Sweden, you should not let people stay for six days. Instead, it would be said that they can stay for six hours. The objectivity of these restrictions must be called into question. In Norrbotten, the decline in border trade with Norway and Finland has hit the business world hard. 80 per cent of the companies in Norrbotten have been adversely affected by the pandemic, and 70 per cent have had to take saving measures. I think we are in a good position to do it better in the future. I and my fellow ministers have had an intensive dialogue with our Nordic colleagues, and we have raised these issues about the negative consequences several times. We have worked towards regional and local solutions for people living in the border areas of our countries. And in our contacts with the Nordic countries, we have highlighted the regional differences in the spread of infection and the importance of continuous dialogue.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-668	Madam President, I would like This is precisely what is at the heart of the issue, that is, how extremely important the Nordic countries are to us and to each other. It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that these are the economies that are most important to us and that is where we have our closest friends. In the border areas family and families live on each side of the border. That is the starting point, and that is why it is so sad to observe these downward spirals that have been going on during the management of the pandemic because it has been handled in different ways. It has also been seen that different countries have had different attitudes towards each other. I mean, Madam President, that various measures each have been involved in damaging the relationship. Together, it has created, I believe, a rather dangerous climate for the Nordic region – especially if we have the starting point that the Nordic region is important. Then we must do everything we can to protect it, to safeguard it and to ensure that we really do have an exchange. Madam President, I would like In his last speech, the Foreign Minister made a long list of what could be described in Swedish as the Chinese in the various relationships – how a rule changes suddenly, overnight, and people cannot make these natural trips. She also wondered where objectivity was in how the other countries have acted. That is precisely the question that other countries can ask our Foreign Minister. Where was the objectivity of our actions? Madam President, I would like I believe that the travel bans to Finland, Norway and Denmark have been fundamentally unnecessary, partly because it is easy to get home if there are more restrictions and partly because the other countries are going to give us consular assistance if we are not able to do so. You have to say, get back on your horse! This hasn't turned out well, but we're not getting off. Now it's time to ride on.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-673	Madam President, I would like Given that we are still in the midst of the pandemic, I do not want to review in detail either our own or our Nordic neighbours' management of the pandemic. However, I would like to return to the fact that Sweden has chosen a path that is evidence-based regarding our borders to our Nordic neighbours, i.e. border closures are not a recommendation from either the Swedish or the European disease control authority as an effective means of combating the infection. The evaluation work already launched, carried out internally at the Government Office as well as by the independent Corona Commission, will examine our considerations, our decision-making and our communication and information about our actions. An even closer Nordic dialogue on how we can cooperate better begins today through my colleague Anna Hallberg, who talks with his Nordic co-ministerial colleagues. It is about finding the forms of discussion and a commitment at political level to take responsibility for Nordic cooperation and mitigate the negative consequences in the interwoven border regions. We need not only an exchange of information but also a pragmatic dialogue before decisions are taken that have an impact on mobility across our borders. This was something I mentioned when I met the Nordic and Baltic foreign ministers in Tallinn yesterday. Above all, I stressed the major impact that decisions have had on border regions and that these are often based on small changes in the transmission statistics. The objective should be a closer dialogue between the Nordic co-operation ministers and the foreign ministers, which will avoid negative consequences for our border regions and strengthen Nordic co-operation.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-678	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has asked me whether I intend to act in order for Sweden's extradition agreement with Hong Kong to be concluded and if any contacts have been made with the other EU countries for joint action. Furthermore, Kerstin Lundgren has asked me whether I believe that what has now happened in Hong Kong means that the image of a country two systems, which has been the basis of the China strategy, needs to be reconsidered. Finally, Kerstin Lundgren has asked me if I am prepared to work towards, in the same way as several other EU countries, shaping a clearer Swedish presence in Taiwan in the form of a Sweden Office in Taipei. Let me begin by emphasising the seriousness with which I and the government look at developments in Hong Kong and the introduction of the new security legislation there. Sweden has on several occasions presented its view to the Chinese authorities, even after the new security legislation came into force. It was urgent that the EU raise the issue with the Chinese leadership at the EU-China summit at the end of June. On 24 July, the EU Member States agreed on Council conclusions stressing that the new Security Act is contrary to China's international commitments and Hong Kong's constitution. The Council conclusions set out a series of concrete measures in response to developments, including a review by EU Member States of the impact of the new security legislation on extradition agreements with Hong Kong. As regards the first question, the fact is that Sweden does not have an extradition agreement with Hong Kong. Ending something that has not been concluded is not possible. With regard to the second question, Sweden and the rest of the EU are behind the principle of one country two systems This position is protected by the 1984 agreement between China and the United Kingdom, which is deposited with the United Nations. It is of fundamental importance that the human rights and freedoms granted to Hong Kong residents under this law are fully respected. As the Government's letter to the Riksdag shows in its work on issues relating to China, it is of central importance for Sweden that the EU conducts a common and clear China policy. This line is, of course, consistent, even with the situation in Hong Kong. It is through the EU that Sweden can have the best impact. It is important that we act in agreement, and a discussion will be held on the way forward. On the third question, I would like to point out that Sweden has good relations with Taiwan. The government wants to develop these relations. In 1991, the Swedish Export Council opened an office in Taipei, where Business Sweden today conducts important work for Swedish trade interests. The already extensive exchange currently takes place within the framework of Business Sweden's office in Taipei.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-684	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Chinese Communist Party's decision to enforce the so-called National Security Act for Hong Kong has clearly demonstrated how afraid the regime is of people's freedom – freedom to share different opinions and have different opinions, academic freedom, freedom of the press, freedom not to support Xi Jinping and the CCP. During the summer we have been able to follow the arrest of students and the dismissal of law professors. We've seen the leader of one of the media agencies arrested. We have also seen one of the leaders of the 2014 peaceful umbrella demonstrations arrested. In the run-up to the planned elections last Sunday, the biggest demonstrations on the streets of Hong Kong were those which again demanded the right to choose, the right to freedom and the right to what was in the Constitution. What happened? Yes, 300 new arrests. On the day we opened the Parliament, we saw pictures of a 12-year-old girl who was attacked by the police on the street in Hong Kong. There is no doubt about the attitude of the new Security Act to Carrie Lam and the Hong Kong government. It is no longer independent of the Communist Party. The new security law has changed the image of a China two system. Against this background, it is, of course, important to see what we have built up for something together on the basis of a China two system. I have noted that on 13 July Finland's Foreign Minister Haavisto was able to say that the Nordic countries had to terminate their extradition agreements. He used that expression, but it's MLA that we're talking about. The Foreign Minister also knows that I know that this is not an ordinary extradition agreement, but that it is an MLA agreement, which is a mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. That's what we have. We started work on it in November 2013, and it came into force as late as 2018. It contains such things as identifying and locating people, providing support, information and documents, tracking and so on to help each other in criminal matters. For China, of course, it is about terrorism. We see how to deal with our citizen Gui Minhai, who was also active in Hong Kong. It is, as I see it, against this background that it is not reasonable to continue with the MLA agreement that we have reached with Hong Kong. That was one reason, as was written in the press release, to accentuate Hong Kong's unique position under just one country's two systems. On the basis that it has now been eroded or demolished by the Communist Party of China, we must conclude that the agreement should no longer apply. That is what Finland says, and we should say so. I will come back to the other answers because I see that my time is running out. But thank you for your answer so far, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-692	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of July, the Left Party called for the agreement on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between Sweden and Hong Kong to be terminated. It is important to note that Sweden does not have an extradition agreement with Hong Kong, as some other European countries have, including Finland. We have an agreement on legal assistance. This means, however, that according to the agreement Swedish authorities are obliged to help, nowadays, China with information about Hong Kong requests it. I think it is unreasonable for the government to leave it to individual police officers to assess whether a person is a political prisoner or a criminal person. If it is a political prisoner, Sweden does not need to disclose the information, but if it is a criminal person, Sweden must disclose the information. The government must therefore make it clear, preferably here and now, that all requests from China, in this case from Hong Kong, will be covered by § 4.1(c) until the agreement is terminated. This means that all requests are classified as political prisoners. The best thing would be for the agreement to be terminated immediately. It shall be made in writing. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister responsible should send a letter immediately. As soon as it arrives, the agreement is terminated. Until then, however, all petitions that have been made before Sweden has sent the letter and it has reached Hong Kong. Then they must be dealt with in accordance with the agreement. Madam President, I would like I have ordered a RUT report on Sweden's contractual relationship with Hong Kong. It's not very long and has no 977. Today we have three agreements. One thing we've touched on. The second agreement is about ferie work. It's not a big deal. But it would be a good principle if Sweden also terminated the agreement on ferie work. There is no logic in Sweden cooperating in this way with Hong Kong, which has now become part of China. That is why that agreement should be terminated. The third agreement is a tax treaty. It is a question of trying to get to tax evaders who are involved in tax evasion. Sweden has similar agreements with some not great regimes around the world. We also have agreements with Macao. Regardless of the democratic situation, the countries of the world need to be helped to combat tax evasion. Therefore, I do not think that the third agreement with Hong Kong should be terminated. I would like to move on to the democracy activists in Hong Kong and the repression they are experiencing. The situation is very serious. A lot of people are now stopped from leaving Hong Kong, or running away, you should say. On 6 September, 300 activists were arrested protesting the end of the elections. It is about the forthcoming election of Hong Kong's local parliament, which has been interrupted and postponed. It's gone really bad for 12 young activists. They tried to escape by boat to Taiwan, but they were taken along the way. Now some kind of sea blockade has been built between Hong Kong and Taiwan. Then there was no sound, until a few days ago when Carrie Lam announced that the twelve persons were taken to mainland China to be judged. It is the ultimate consequence of the new security law that has come into place in Hong Kong. You simply move activists who you want to judge to China. Another case that concerns me very personally is the case of Ted Hui, who is a member of the Democratic Party. He visited Sweden and the Riksdag as late as February and met with a composition of many parties here in Parliament's chambers. He has been beaten in his own parliament, and now he is arrested and accused. It is political refugees that we must give all our support in order for them to escape Hong Kong. Sweden must therefore, in cooperation with the EU, impose sanctions on China.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-702	Madam President, I would like Since several months ago when Håkan Svenneling began to push the demand that we should terminate the agreement, I have also been about to awaken interpellations and ask questions on the same theme as this interpellation: Isn't it time to terminate the extradition agreement? It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, and if you conduct some archive studies you can see that we do not have that kind of extradition agreement. But, like previous speakers, we have had an agreement on legal assistance. But the exception there are political crimes and crimes that you can label as such. I think that the points that Håkan Svenneling made are interesting. It will be exciting to hear the foreign minister's answer. What Kerstin Lundgren's interpellation is about, what Håkan Svenneling from the Left Party is following up and what I stand for here now is that we are all representatives because action is required. It is not possible to have a day-to-day, just any day, with regard to the People's Republic of China after what has been done with regard to the security laws against Hong Kong and the appalling speed at which they are now being used against the freedom-toring people of Hong Kong and against the legal structures that are now rapidly being crushed. I therefore believe, regardless of whether there is an extradition agreement or not and what agreements could actually be terminated, that the most important thing is that we make action visible. What China does must lead to consequences. It's just as has been said and stated– I myself have had an article about it. Last Sunday there would have been elections to the legislature. They are advanced on a somewhat unclear future with reference to the raging pandemic. I do not believe for a single moment that it is covid-19 that prevents the elections to the legislative assembly. It is the People's Republic of China that does not want the people of Hong Kong to manifest their opinion and their will, as they did a few months ago with regard to the local assemblies. It was a real punch in the face of China's henchmen in Hong Kong, Madam President. I also believe, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also points out in his reply, that the EU is the most important tool for us in pursuing a coherent policy against the People's Republic of China. But then countries like Sweden must step forward and say that we must move from words to action. It is not yet another finely defended position by the High Representative, Josep Borrell, who needs to be sent to Beijing. There's something else. It is interesting that so far we have not mentioned anything about the summit now planned between the EU Presidency and the People's Republic of China. I assume that this will be about something more than just a new investment agreement. Beautifully so – but this is also the time to talk about other things, about human rights and freedoms, about Gui Minhai, about the fight for freedom in Hong Kong, about the democracy activists being hunted both in the People's Republic of China and in Hong Kong and, of course, about Xinjiang. If we decide that the EU is the most important body for this in relation to the People's Republic of China, an EU summit cannot primarily be an investment agreement. I also believe that what Kerstin Lundgren concludes her question with is quite correct. I guess we'll have time to get back to that. I believe this: today Hong Kong, tomorrow Taiwan. That is why action is needed.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-710	Madam President, I would like The government pays great attention to the serious situation in Hong Kong. The decision to introduce security legislation in Hong Kong is contrary to China's international commitments and must continue to be recognised in the EU-China relationship. As I said earlier, it was urgent for the EU to raise this issue with the Chinese leadership at the EU-China Summit on 22 June. The day after the decision on a new security legislation in Hong Kong on 1 July, the EU expressed serious concern about the legislation and called on China to avoid any action undermining Hong Kong's independent legal system. At the EU Foreign Minister's meeting on 13 July, I, together with several other countries, highlighted the need for more forceful EU action in view of the situation. I also recalled Sweden's position on sanctions. Of course, the next summit will not just be about investment agreements, but these issues will be raised again. On 24 July, the EU Member States agreed on a number of Council conclusions on Hong Kong which emphasise that the new Security Act is contrary to China's international commitments and Hong Kong's constitution. The Council conclusions also set out a series of concrete measures in response to events. The actions undertaken by the respective Member States of the EU to consider include a further review and limitation of exports of sensitive equipment and technologies, increased support for civil society, continued EU presence in trials against representatives of the democratic movement and a review of the impact of the new security legislation on extradition agreements as well as other agreements with Hong Kong. It is to be welcomed that the EU is now moving beyond statements to more concrete measures. The government is working towards continued clear EU-wide action. The discussion on the way forward will continue. Sweden has not entered into an extradition agreement with Hong Kong. On the other hand, Sweden, like many other countries, has a bilateral agreement on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. The agreement entered into force in 2018 and aims to improve the effectiveness of cooperation in criminal matters. It enables Sweden and Hong Kong to provide each other with legal assistance in investigating and prosecuting crimes. Swedish prosecutors and courts can, under the agreement, receive direct assistance from Hong Kong and, for example, obtain evidence and hold hearings. However, the fact that there is now an agreement in place does not mean that there is an automatic obligation for Sweden to assist Hong Kong with legal assistance. Sweden may refuse legal assistance, for example, if the request concerns political crimes or if the aid would be contrary to Swedish general legal principles. This is something that applies not only in relation to Hong Kong but also to the others who ask Sweden for legal assistance in criminal matters. A trial is always carried out on a case-by-case basis.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-716	Madam President, I would like You can't cancel a deal that doesn't exist. But Sweden has an agreement that can be terminated, and the government could do so. This agreement on mutual judicial cooperation could be terminated. It is similar to a number of other countries' agreements. Finland was ahead of us; they started in 2005. We started in 2013. We all did this because we wanted to mark something with these agreements. This is also evident from press releases and other things. We wanted to make it clear that Hong Kong was in a very special position and that the 1984 agreement between China and the United Kingdom would apply. We thought that agreement was in place. But now we have heard how a representative of the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party says that it is only a paper. So it is not something that is taken more seriously, and that is not surprising. Nor do you care about court decisions, even though you have signed, for example, Unclo. Statements in this section are not enough. Something else needs to be done. The Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the protection of Hong Kong's position under the 1984 agreement between China and the United Kingdom. This is writing history. We can see that it is no longer protected. In fact, we see that China has changed relations by means of the security law that has been pushed through. The question that the government must ask itself and to which I think it is important to get an answer is: how do we prevent this from happening again and that it has a stronger impact? Then you must dare to speak in plain language and not hide behind something similar to the three monkeys who neither see, hear or say anything. We must see what is happening and support those who dare to go out and try to push the demand for democracy or for a special position. Just recently, one of the leaders of People Power was arrested, I think it was. You continue and dot one after another, just as you do in Belarus and other dictatorships. It's nothing new. It is therefore important that the government does not hide behind the fact that it was not the right agreement that was mentioned but takes advantage of the opportunity to strangle the agreement that exists, just as so many other countries have done. We're not alone. I call on the Foreign Minister to join forces with other countries that have denounced their agreements and the extradition agreements they have had. The Foreign Minister is meeting with the Dutch Foreign Minister today. The Netherlands has led the way with regard to Taiwan. They have an office in Taipei. Australia and Austria have too. Why should Sweden not have the Office of Sweden instead of Business Sweden? Because it's more than business it's about. If we stand up for and want to strengthen democracy and freedom, that should be the answer. Let's turn Business Sweden into Office of Sweden in Taipei!
i-e9d36d9474f49002-722	Madam President, I would like I believe that all of us Members here welcome the EU Council conclusions, which, in view of the consequences of the new Security Act, want to review the countries' relations with Hong Kong. What we're asking is what the government has done. Has there been a review of the three agreements you have? Has a process been initiated to conclude the agreements? Is something going on? Sometimes it sounds like that from Ann Linde. I heard some statement in the media where it sounded like it was going on– I think it was in August. However, as we stand here today, we are not told clearly that something is moving. Ann Linde says to make a case-by-case examination. That is precisely what we Members here want to avoid. We do not even want a trial to be carried out, because we know that there is a risk that this will be used against political activists in Hong Kong. It is unreasonable for the government to shift responsibility to individual police officers and to the judicial authorities to see whether a person is a political prisoner or a criminal. It is necessary to clarify whether all requests from Hong Kong are covered by Section 4.1(c), and you need as soon as you can, preferably immediately, terminate this agreement in order for it to become clear. Madam President, I would like I will conclude by saying a few words about Taiwan, which I think it is important to highlight in this context. The thought tank Arena Idé has meritably produced the writing Taiwan – The unknown and threatened democracy by Jojje Olsson. It has been sent to all Members of Parliament, and I urge all Members who are not here to read it. The report shows that Taiwan is a fragile democracy. Sweden and the rest of the world can support Taiwan's democracy, so that it exists forever. But the risks at the moment are very great. The odds are high. This means that there is a great risk that democracy in Asia will be curtailed.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-725	Madam President, I would like What I see unites the Foreign Minister and the undersigned is that we are both convinced that the EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. I am dedicated to the fact that it is right and proper. That is why it is also so painful with the three major things that are currently going on in foreign policy. It is about the poison attack and the attempt to poison killings with chemical agents against opposition leader Aleksej Navalnyj, it is about Belarus and it is about China's draconian action against Hong Kong. The EU is not in a position to be much more than a press release machine. I don't want another statement. I want action in all three examples. Today we are discussing Hong Kong and China. That is why I am pleased that six parties were able to run over two, namely the Social Democrats and the Green Party, in the EU Council and get Sweden to be proponents of sanctions. They have not yet arrived in Europe. I am waiting for the day when Europe will be more powerful. Having said that, I believe that, in addition to the fact that the EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena, it is particularly important in China and Hong Kong that we coordinate and coordinate with the countries of the free world who are also deeply involved in these issues. It is Canada, South Korea, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Taiwan. We cannot ignore the mulcher that is now growing out of the Hong Kong of security laws across the water towards Taiwan. That is why it is important that we have to have the clear security walls around and explain that we are seeing what is happening. We also see what has been done to those who have visited Taiwan. That's not acceptable. Today Hong Kong, tomorrow Taiwan.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-730	Madam President, I would like What we are talking about here is actually China's action in Hong Kong. It is China that has made the change. This is basically the biggest global change since the fall of the Berlin Wall. This place is both us and the EU facing a series of very challenging and new issues. There are opportunities in relation to China, but there are above all challenges. For the Swedish part, it is important that we start from the European Union and our common values because we are then much stronger. Now Mr Wallmark once again raised the issue of sanctions. Unfortunately, I believe that, because I was completely alone in having to make that demand, the opportunity that we had had to reach agreement on imposing sanctions much earlier was delayed. Now, however, we managed to do diplomatic work in the way that it should be done and have gained a greater understanding, and hence many concrete measures. You keep asking about concrete measures, and we have all the concrete measures that we have developed from both Sweden and the European Union. There is no difference in vision when it comes to taking. There is uncertainty as to how China develops in the medium and long term. You have a global influence. It has become much tougher against countries that do what they mean is not according to what China wants. This requires us to coordinate our cooperation. For example, I had the opportunity today to thank the Dutch Foreign Minister for bringing up the case of Gui Minhais, just as we are asking all our friends to address the case of Minhais Gui in all their bilateral relations, and also the EU representative. So do they. It feels very good that the active work that the government is doing to get Gui Minhai free also has the support of as many of them as we ask for help from. As I mentioned in my initial reply, the European Union is behind the principle of one country and two systems of maintaining Hong Kong's self-governing position. That line is fixed. The reason I mentioned Hong Kong's protection status under the 1984 agreement is that it shows that it is in breach of international agreements. It is not at all that Kerstin Lundgren says I say it take because it is a piece of paper. On the contrary, we have here an important proof that this is what should apply, which is deposited with the United Nations. In this way, we can accuse China of failing to comply with its international commitments. That is why such international agreements are so important. It's not because it's something you hide behind. On the contrary, it is something to hold up. It shows they're breaking it. As far as the various agreements are concerned, I believe that when I was Minister of Trade, I signed the Ferie Labour Agreement myself. I think you can look at different things. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that you can get, for example, young people from Hong Kong here to Sweden to meet democratic parties and civil society and see how we live here. That could be a very big advantage. You have to think about whether we're strangling the opportunity for the Hong Kong people to come here. It is possible that this is not the case. But you always have to keep it in the back of your head before throwing the baby out with the bath water.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-741	Madam President, I would like Of course, we have seen that China does not respect agreements. They interpret them in their Chinese way. It is not the agreed interpretation that we perceive. Court decisions on free shipping are not accepted. Statements that the 1984 agreement is just a piece of paper surely say something about how to relate to the order that we have believed has been in force. Then we on our part must reply back and not just say: you have signed. They know about it, but they don't care. There are other things that need to be done. What has now become visible is an answer given by many countries. The extradition agreements have been terminated. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland stated that the existing agreements would cease to be applied. I myself asked the parliamentary investigation service to compare Swedish and Finnish MLA. They perceive that in principle there are no differences in the whole. In view of the fact that Finland can resign or not apply, Sweden and the Swedish Foreign Minister should be able to say: We do not apply. We could also say: we will tear it apart, and we will sign and terminate the agreement. It would be a clear signal, as would if we did as the Netherlands, Australia and Austria and changed to the Office of Sweden in Taipei. That would say: we stand up for democracy, and we act when it is suppressed.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-746	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised when Kerstin Lundgren says that because we have an international agreement that China does not respect, we should not have an international agreement. That conclusion is totally unreasonable. What is important is that we get international agreements that we can then show that we are breaking so that we can take action against them. I do not understand the argument to almost mock international agreements and say that just because they do not read them as we do, you should not have them. We will first and foremost, through the EU, demand that China comply with its obligations under international law. Among other things, we are doing this by holding up the 1984 agreement deposited with the UN and pointing it out. You've signed it, and then you have to follow it. This concerns the serious developments in Hong Kong. However, this also applies to issues relating to Taiwan. It is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. The government's starting point is that we should work for as broad and comprehensive participation as possible in international cooperation. For example, both the EU and Sweden are in favour of Taiwan participating in international organisations. Most recently, this has involved participation in expert bodies such as the World Health Organisation. Conflicts between China and Taiwan must be resolved peacefully and in a manner consistent with the will of the people of Taiwan. As I said before, Sweden has good relations with Taiwan. They have evolved over many years in a number of areas. As an example, I can mention the annual trade talks at state secretarial level that Sweden and Taiwan have held since the 1980s. The government wants to continue developing relations with Taiwan. Taiwan is a developed democracy with good respect for human rights. In 1991, the Swedish Export Council opened an office in Taipei, where Business Sweden carries out important work. As I have said before, the exchange takes place within the framework of this office.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-752	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to give more money to public transport and when the promised 3 billion is expected to be paid out to the regional public transport authorities. The current pandemic places great demands on the safe conduct of collective activity in order to avoid the spread of infection. Therefore, frequency and capacity need to be maintained to the extent necessary to reduce the risk of congestion. The responsibility for reducing congestion in public transport rests with the regional public transport authorities, but it is also for all of us to follow the recommendations issued by the Public Health Authority. It is about avoiding unnecessary travel and working as much as possible from home and avoiding travelling in rush hour traffic. Maintaining the supply of services while reducing travel has led to a loss of revenue for regional public transport authorities. The SEK 3 billion received by the government via amending budget before the summer is intended to compensate for reduced revenues and to provide the opportunity to maintain a sufficient supply of public transport. In accordance with the industry's wishes, compensation for reduced ticket revenues will be provided until June 2020. The Finnish Transport Agency administers the payments on application from the public transport authorities. Thus, the financial statements need to be completed before the application can be submitted. The application period will run from 38 to 40 weeks, after which the Finnish Transport Administration will distribute the aid. I am following this issue closely, and I am not ruling out further measures.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-756	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation. Since the coronapandemy struck, public transport has been halved. This means that half as many travel by bus, commuter train, tram, metro and so on. The reduction in travel is a consequence of the recommendations that we politicians and our authorities make: You should avoid travelling in public transport if you can do so. Work from home! Otherwise go to work or get there by bike if you can! The decline in travel has resulted in a huge loss of ticket revenues for regional public transport authorities. They estimate that they lose about $1 billion each month because fewer people travel in public transport. There is a forecast that you will need about SEK 9 – 10 billion extra in order to maintain normal capacity in public transport. In addition, public transport has additional costs for installing plexiglass, having information campaigns and extra staff and so on so that we can travel safely in public transport without risk of contamination when we need to travel. Yes, the state of public transport is acute. There has been talk of crisis, meltdown and disaster. You can call it what you want, but the situation is urgent. More money is needed. We need to support public transport. In the long term, we want increased travel in public transport. Public transport is a key element in our desire to reduce emissions from the transport sector. Public transport is also very important for accessibility and equality in our country. Everyone should be able to get where they need to go. Now that schools and jobs have started, there is an obvious risk of increased congestion and thus the spread of infection in public transport. I listened to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth in August when he commented precisely on the risk of increased congestion. He then talked about the importance of further expanding the capacity of public transport, such as ordering more vehicles, so that we avoid congestion. That's excellent, I think. But building capacity obviously costs money, and money is something that our regional public transport authorities today have a huge shortage of. Earlier this year, specifically on 11 May, the government promised 3 billion extra to public transport in Sweden. That is a good thing, but I would like to emphasise that that money has not yet been paid out. Our regional public transport authorities find it a little strange that this money was promised last spring but that it has still not arrived. All the data on the size of our regions are available. But now the Minister has replied that this work is in progress, so I must hope so much. However, 3 billion is not enough, but more money is needed. In the Transport Committee today we were courted by the public transport industry, and we received a very important letter from them. They estimate that about SEK 6 billion is needed to maintain the capacity of public transport so that we can avoid the spread of infection.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-762	Madam President, I would like I do not intend to make a long background statement, because I think that both the Minister and Jens Holm have done very well. However, I have a very specific question. It is linked to what I hear from various transport operators in the country about how they perceived the government in spring and early summer. When the coronapandemy started, the government made a statement. It promised to compensate municipalities and regions for, as I understand it, 100% of the costs associated with Corona. Now that we see how public transport is affected by the corona, my simple question is: Is public transport included? Will the government compensate them for 100% of the costs, as I understood it was promised last spring?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-764	Madam President, I would like I thank both Jens Holm and Magnus Jacobsson. I appreciate the commitment to public transport. It's incredibly important. It is important for anyone who does not have a city car or a jeep or who cannot otherwise get to work. From the point of view of fairness and from the point of view of class and gender, public transport is equalising. It creates opportunities. However, the pandemic has presented both public transport and society as a whole with a challenge that we were not quite prepared for. It is about being able to maintain a society, to have the right resources for health care and to be able to support people in a pandemic. At the same time, it is about ensuring that we have a functioning labour market – we chose to have schools open. It's a path that I think has been incredibly important. It has also meant that we wanted public transport in place with volumes that do not make it crowded, so that we do not contribute to the spread of infection. That is why I made early contact with the whole transport industry, not least public transport. We have worked well together to ensure that traffic is not cut back. In the beginning it happened, not least in the Stockholm area, with congestion on buses as a consequence. That is not acceptable. Since then it has worked somewhat better in the Stockholm region. I note that Jens Holm quotes an interview with me in his interpella speech. For the record, I would like to say that this quote is incorrect. What I said was the following: and it is important to take advantage of the experience we had during the spring. Then the public transport still worked well. The volumes were maintained, extra buses were put in, and in fact they largely managed to avoid a situation where there was congestion. ..................................................... Then I said, ‘If you look at the evaluation so far that I think the radio actually did, it has turned out that you did not return to 100% capacity, but rather the capacity has been significantly lower in almost the whole country because of a substantial reduction in travel. So there is capacity available and there is also good foresight and the possibility of taking in extra capacity. ..................................................... This was in the middle of the summer, in a situation where they actually in many parts pulled down the volumes properly. In a discussion for the autumn, when people were going back to work and when schools started, it was important to have a dialogue on how we make sure to have the right capacity. There we have made changes that enable principals and schools to change school hours in a way that does not require students to leave in the middle of peak hours. I believe that this is the way we need to ensure that we are able to cope with high volumes of public transport and, at the same time, reduce the risk of infection. We have given proper resources not least to the municipalities and regions responsible for public transport. For those who follow the debate, it may be good to know that this is not the responsibility of the state. It is the regions and municipalities that are responsible for public transport. There we have given general state subsidies in two different rounds, first over 20 billion and now more than 10 billion – 12.5 permanent billion – in the budget that will be presented in the future. However, we have also made it unique to go forward with earmarked state subsidies so that the state specifically goes in and supports public transport. The statement of the 3 billion has been important for public transport to feel ahead and maintain capacity. Now the application period, week 38 - 40, begins to account for actual figures, not forecasts. The forecast of SEK 1 billion a month was a forecast based on how the travel was during a week in April. We need to be careful about taxpayers' money. We must ensure that it is the ticket revenue loss that we cover and that we have the order and the accounting that takes place. But public transport is important, and I think it is absolutely crucial that we continue to have good capacity to reduce the spread of infection.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-775	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister clarifies his quote from Swedish Radio. It is clear, however, that what the Minister says is that additional capacity is needed compared to today. And if additional capacity is needed compared to today, more vehicles, more buses, more bus drivers and more staff are needed. All of this costs money. If the Minister does not think so, say it clearly here and now so that we can hear it in the Chamber! If public transport does not receive compensation for the loss of ticket revenue, the risk is obvious that bus routes will be withdrawn, bus drivers fired and the capacity of public transport will be reduced. None of us want that. Unfortunately, we are already seeing this happening around the country. I am thinking, for example, of Skåne, where almost 200 bus drivers have now been fired because bus routes are being pulled in. This is totally unacceptable, I think, both from a general public transport perspective and, of course, from the point of view of infection. We hear from X traffic in Gävleborg that they will have a deficit of about SEK 100 million this year. You lose between 2 1⁄2 and 3 million SEK a week. Anders Eriksson, Head of Transport Development in Region Gävleborg, says: Three billion is promised so far, but that is not enough. We hope that the government will make more money. It is probably a very well-found quote for public opinion in the public transport sector around Sweden. We hear from Upplands Lokaltrafik that they will do a minus of about SEK 360 million. You talk about whether to pull in bus lines or raise tariffs. When it was about money for SAS and for the companies it was fast. Then there was a lot of money. Public transport is now saying collectively: we need more money. We're losing $1 billion a month. We need at least SEK 6 billion more, somewhere between SEK 9 billion and SEK 10 billion in total for this year. Then it won't be as fast. We need a powerful government that saves our public transport. The alternative will be withdrawn bus lines and fired staff. In the long term, I fear that there will be a loss of confidence in public transport. We risk having to reduce the ambitious and important climate targets we have in this area. We saw that public transport was growing in proportion, that more and more people travelled collectively, before the Corona crisis. I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure how he assesses the public transport sector's figure that an estimated SEK 9 to 10 billion is needed in total, i.e. at least another SEK 6 billion, from the state in compensation. In the previous speech, it sounded as if the Minister thought that this was a loose forecast and that those figures could not really be trusted. I believe that our regional public transport authorities have very good knowledge of their figures. And if these figures are reasonably correct, why does the government not send this money so that we can save public transport?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-784	Madam President, I would like This summer I have been out doing some study visits. It may not be so strange when you come from Bohuslän, or Fyrbodal as we call ourselves. We have been hit hard by Corona in the form of reduced border trade and Norwegian closure. I was, among other things, quite early this summer in the Social Democraticly led municipality of Strömstad. We sat and had good conversations and briefings. We met municipal management and business and talked about elderly care, among other things. We also talked about that Strömstad, just to try to mate, had hired young people who would have some control in the village so that people didn't get too close to each other. In that conversation, the very question that I asked earlier appeared. The government promised to compensate for the cost of Corona. In Strömstad, of course, I am asked as a Member of Parliament: Do you think these young people will be included? Do you think our public transport will be included? Or does the government just mean the care? I note that I did not actually receive an answer to the question whether the government intends to include all the covid costs or whether it is just some. I know, based on the study visits I have made this summer, that this is where you sit and think about – municipalities, regions and politicians regardless of colour. As I said, I was in Social Democratically led Strömstad. They had the same question that I also encountered in some bourgeois municipalities: Will the government stand for its promise, no matter what area it is about?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-788	Madam President, I would like With regard to the last question, I would like to point out that the support announced on 11 March by the Government in a bill was about covering extraordinary additional costs related to covid in the health sector. Magnus Jacobsson has voted in favour of this proposal. That's the limit. It is not a question of covering all covid-related costs for all events that occur. It's actually a responsibility we all have to share. However, so that there would be no doubt in the health care sector about prioritising saving lives and health, the government gave the extraordinary promise to ensure that resources could be redistributed to IVA and to ensure that people were given the support and help needed in a situation where we did not actually know what the pandemic would get. It was to save lives. In that situation, that promise was made clearly to the health care system. Otherwise, we have had to share the costs and challenges of the pandemic. Whether we are talking about public transport or the whole transport sector or about businesses and jobs, the historic sum we are talking about is 250 billion, I think the last sum was, in investment and support to meet the challenge. Here too, municipalities and regions must help. When Jens Holm mentions public transport in Skåne, I think that the management in Region Skåne has also previously, before the pandemic, reduced public transport because they want to reduce it for political reasons. This is one of the reasons why I will be careful to ensure that the resources we provide for public transport go to maintaining a volume and a range. This must not be an opportunity to lower ambition levels. Public transport must be there to reduce the spread of infection and ensure that you can get to work safely. Not everyone can give up, work from home or ride a bike. For some, public transport is the only option. Therefore, the state provides additional resources in the form of both general and earmarked state grants. It is clear that this also means that we provide better conditions. It is not up to me to assess whether Swedish Public Transport's forecast of 9 – 10 billion is right or not. I think that the starting point for those of us who are responsible for the economy and for what efforts we make in the country, whether we are in parliament or government, is that we should find out how big the ticket phase is and what the costs are. This is why the public transport authorities are now going to report so that in weeks 38 – 40 we get a proper account and in that way can provide the right compensation. Unlike a small business owner, a restaurant owner or a taxi company, municipalities and regions do not need to know about the resources this week or next week because they otherwise choose to close down. We are talking about resourceful organisations. Of course, the government also engages in dialogue with these actors. I think it is important that we consider what support we are now giving in order to maintain society. I am proud of the more than 20 billion we first gave in general state subsidies and the announcements that have now been made in connection with the presentation of the budget regarding additional general resources for regions and municipalities, which can also be used for both regional airports and public transport. But it is also an important signal from the government that we are now, for the first time, going forward with special-destined state subsidies precisely to help public transport. I do not, of course, rule out the possibility that the government may continue to use that option.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-797	Madam President, I would like Ultimately, this debate is about what it is for Sweden we want after Corona. There's so much we're going to have to do after the coronapndemine. Ensuring that we have a well-functioning public transport system that contributes to greater equality in society, increased accessibility and reduced emissions of greenhouse gases is one of the most important issues to crack in this context. The government, as the Minister was on, has presented more than ten additional budgets with over SEK 250 billion in emergency corona support. I welcome this. But now we see that some of the support that has been presented is not enough. We must be able to continue travelling safely in public transport when we need it. The industry, the bus drivers, and our regional public transport authorities, who organise the traffic, say about the SEK 3 billion: Thank you for them! We haven't got them yet, but they'll be fine when they come, but more money is needed. I would like to ask the Minister a question. Week 40 is all completed at Trafikverket when it comes to applications for the SEK 3 billion. When, then, will they be paid out, Tomas Eneroth? I would also like to ask the Minister: in view of the fact that so much money has been paid out to other areas and that we have a clear indication that an estimated SEK 6 billion is needed for us to have a well-functioning public transport system, does the Minister think that this is a reasonably reasonable figure? And will the Minister return with additional support, in addition to the SEK 3 billion, to public transport in Sweden?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-801	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we think long-term, and I am convinced that Jens Holm and I have the same starting point. We must ensure that we have strong confidence in public transport, that it can survive in the long term and that municipalities and regions responsible for public transport also assume this responsibility. One can sometimes get the impression from Jens Holm's agitation that Jens Holm thinks it is the state that should take responsibility for public transport in the future. I like the idea that responsibility is shared, but I also like the idea that we have a developed dialogue on how public transport can be strengthened in Sweden in the future. It is important for a lot of people when it comes to getting to work – all those who do not have a car or cannot ride a bike and where public transport is the only option. This also means a responsibility for all of us not to use public transport if we can refrain from using other alternatives or work from home. It goes without saying that we in the government not only follow developments closely, but also ensure that municipalities and regions are well placed to meet these challenges. This is why we and the Riksdag have supported the historically great efforts made on general state grants, but also on earmarked state grants. I believe that this is important in order for there to be a feeling in the future that we managed this crisis together. Pandemine strikes all walks of life. It will also be long-term. The repercussions of what is happening now will be felt for a long time. Then it is important that we make efforts that meet all parts of society. I am proud that women's shelters have received money, that civil society and companies get it and that in this way we ensure that all the different parts that are affected are given the opportunity to meet the challenge. But we will have to do more. During the current budget presentation, it will certainly be possible to provide information in several sectors of society. Jens Holm and I will certainly have good opportunities to continue discussing support for public transport.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-806	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me three questions about the carbon price and infrastructure planning. Let me begin by stating that Sweden has a very ambitious climate policy. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The climate targets set shall be met. In the latest budget bill, the Government also made it clear that the Parliament decided on the climate target for the transport sector should also be a milestone in the transport policy target structure. When it comes to how the socio-economic calculation values are determined, this is the task of the Finnish Transport Administration. I have full confidence that the Authority will carry out this task in a competent manner. The impact of the new CO2 assessment on the outcome of the socio-economic assessments is too early to comment on. The new valuation established by Trafikverket has just entered into force. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the socio-economic calculations are one of the bases on which the decisions on the measures to be implemented are based. In the run-up to such decisions, all aspects of transport policy objectives will, of course, be taken into account in an overall assessment.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-810	Madam President, I would like I have, on several occasions from this pulpit, praised Minister Tomas for having found that I have received very good answers. This time, however, I am not quite as happy. I think the answer is very thin. What has happened is that the Swedish Transport Administration has made new calculations for the analysis of infrastructure investments. In practice, these mean that the actual value of carbon dioxide per kilogram has been increased by 700%. Today, approximately 1.14 is expected to be a negative value per kilogram of carbon dioxide. This krona is what a number of researchers have found to be roughly the value. The European Union has come to the conclusion that it is about SEK 1 when it comes to meeting the Paris objective. Yet, our authority presents an estimate of $7 (U.S.). This will, of course, lead to changes when calculating. Earlier in this House and in the committee, we have had discussions about how strong the scientific basis for these traffic analyses is when an assessment is to be made of the types of traffic we are going to invest in over time. Since I did not understand that I actually received answers to my questions, I still wonder how the Minister sees this in terms of calculations and what consequences he believes this will have for the future development of Swedish infrastructure.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-814	Madam President, I would like I have discussed the Swedish Transport Administration's time values and calculation values with the Minister for Infrastructure before and would like to thank the interpelletant Magnus Jacobsson for raising the issue so that we can talk about this once again. However, I do not really agree with Magnus Jacobsson that it is a problem that the Swedish Transport Administration is now weighting up the price and cost of releasing carbon dioxide. I think that is quite right. That is exactly what needs to be done. It has for far too long failed to take full account of the major societal negative impact of CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases. Linked to this are also values that Trafikverket should do in its infrastructure planning. For example, you do time assessments when you compare different modes of traffic, such as travelling by your own car, by train or by bus. A lost minute by car is about twice as important as a lost minute when traveling by train or bus. This means that if Trafikverket invests in expanding car infrastructure, it will be socially profitable, because it will be faster if you travel by car. But investing in public transport, such as rail, is not as socially profitable. Magnus Jacobsson mentions that this is a shock increase when you raise the price of carbon dioxide by 700 percent. I would like to point out that different types of traffic are valued differently. Other countries do not, but we do so in Sweden. These two perspectives show that this is basically not an exact science. Instead, it is a question of making political choices. Maybe that's how we have to do infrastructure planning. We're making different choices. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what he thinks of these balances. How important are the different calculation values actually for the Minister and other members of the Government as well as for the Swedish Transport Administration when doing their infrastructure planning? Is there an exact science for this, or is it ultimately a question of political judgment? In that case, I think it is clear that in future we should invest more in what is reducing our emissions and less in what is increasing emissions.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-819	Madam President, I would like I thank both Jens Holm and Magnus Jacobsson for an interesting discussion. The answer to the last question is yes. We need to invest more. The last time we presented a historically large infrastructure budget. Over 700 billion are being invested. This is the biggest railway investment in modern times. Never before have we invested so much. Now I'm going to correct myself: Well, when during Gripenstam's time you were going to expand the main tracks, it was a larger proportion of the bnp. However, we are now making historically large investments, and we will continue to have to make large investments. This is needed to keep the country together, to continue repairing a badly worn-down railway system after years of underinvestment and to meet the climate challenge. Herein lies the challenge: electrifying, connecting and digitising the entire transport sector. In addition, we must ensure that technical progress is made in terms of road safety. So it is important that we have high ambitions for infrastructure investment in the future. Not only does this help to meet climate objectives, but it also drives jobs and jobs. We are building Sweden. This is the point of taking heights to have good ambitions. But then the climate factor must also be included. I note that the first thing the Christian Democrats did after the change of government was to cut 2.1 billion in the climate budget. After that, they have cut their draft budgets by almost 2 billion more. The Christian Democrats as a party have lower ambitions in terms of climate change. However, I do not want to believe that Magnus Jacobsson has this as a starting point and that this is what is behind his question about the different values of the Finnish Transport Administration. I assume that the climate law that we have and the importance that we in Sweden give to the fact that we will cope with the climate transition will have an impact in other parties' policies as well. It is not up to me to decide which socio-economic calculations and models Trafikverket should use. But they are – to answer Jens Holm – important data when looking at different options. It is, however, a matter of basis. At the end of the day, it is also other assessments that are important when we make political decisions. In the infrastructure planning directives that the Finnish Transport Administration received this summer, the Government mentions socio-economic factors. The gender perspective is also important enough after we have found that much of Swedish infrastructure has been built based on the needs of men and cars. We need to think differently. We must be based on climate, gender, socio-economics and regional policy. This is how we need to look at social planning in the future, so that everyone gets a share of the investment. They must be done right so that we can cope with climate change. Then Trafikverket's different calculation models are part of the basis, the socio-economic calculations, we have for us to take a position on both an infrastructure proposal and of course future national planning. The answer to Magnus Jacobsson's question is that it is not for the government to take a position on different models. It is the Finnish Transport Administration that has to answer for this. Of course, this is one of the bases when we then take a position. Let me ask myself a question back to Magnus Jacobsson. Is this a sign that the Christian Democrats continue to have low ambitions in the climate transition?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-828	Madam President, I would like The answer to the latter has been debated before in various budgetary contexts. In reality, the government has been criticised for spending money that has not had a very good effect. We in the Christian Democrats want an effective environmental policy. We want it to be successful and to have high ambitions. Let us get back to the debate! Traffic analysis has pointed out that the change has the consequence that vehicle traffic, such as cars, trucks, shipping – many of us think this is an important environmental area – and also to some extent aviation, which is important for Sweden, which is an elongated country, will be disadvantaged in these calculations. What will benefit is bike and train. I can understand very well that individual parties in this House, which debate well, think that this is important. I think that bikes and trains are incredibly important. But that does not solve the whole of Sweden's transport problems. I would like to mention a small number that I have taken with me from home Uddevalla from when I was once chairman of the Technical Board. Of all visitors to Uddevalla city centre, 82 percent come by car – 82 percent! Even if we were to invest so much in bicycle roads, additional railways into Uddevalla, trams or anything, it would be much more expensive than letting people use better cars with better environmental standards. Cycling paths could be developed in themselves, but if we now take the rail-bound, which benefits from this calculation, it would simply not be profitable. That's probably what it looks like in many cities. Uddevalla is a medium-sized municipality with 50,000 to 55 000 inhabitants, and it is not a giant flat municipality. The car gives Uddevalla people the freedom to move to work, to preschool, to school, to health care or to visit the elderly. For most people living in rural or sparsely populated areas, the car is part of freedom, and our assessment is that these new estimates will put rural areas at a disadvantage. I will come back to my question on how the Minister and the Government view this. If it turns out that the new calculations will have a clear negative impact on rural areas and the population of small towns, in places where we do not really have a subway with our own station every kilometer, but where we are actually completely dependent on being able to move between jobs and homes, between jobs and schools or between jobs and loved ones, is the Minister prepared to look at this stuff?
i-e9d36d9474f49002-834	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say to Magnus Jacobsson that you can turn it around and ask yourself if it is not a problem that more than 80 per cent of those who travel to a medium-sized Swedish city travel by car and that there is almost always only one person in the car. Should we not do something about it and build up an infrastructure system that rewards public travel and rewards walking and cycling where possible, so that you take the car only when there is no other alternative? That's how it's gonna be sometimes. I think what the Minister for Infrastructure says is interesting, but I think he is a little too self-righteous – SEK 700 billion is actually not enough to meet the enormous challenges that we have in the area of infrastructure. In the national plan that we have today for infrastructure investment, there are a number of major motorways that consume a lot of money. The earmarked bicycle investments contained in the draft of this plan were abolished, and the money for rail and railway maintenance is not enough. Now there will be a new infrastructure bill, and I am really looking forward to that. Now that we have a completely new climate law in Sweden, we have a golden opportunity to ensure that our climate goals become superior in future infrastructure planning, so that we can build a sustainable and fair infrastructure system in Sweden. We haven't managed to do that. I think the new assessment of carbon dioxide, which Magnus Jacobsson is critical of, is good. But there is much more that needs to be done to solve these problems.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-838	Madam President, I would like When it comes to Magnus Jacobsson's questions about car, I am a little surprised, because what we are talking about is the CO2 price. We should remember that there are now electric cars, charging hybrids, biofuels and reduction obligations. There are a lot of different ways to change the car park. Recently, the government was also able to provide special support for those who want to rebuild their petrol car and ensure that it can go on bioethanol. I like the car – I have worked in the automotive industry myself – but I think it's great that we now see a faster development than we have expected when the car park is changed, electrified or switched to biofuels. This is probably so important, and it is absolutely necessary to meet the climate requirements. An important part is that we make sure that this is possible for everyone in Sweden. That is why we are making extra investments in rural areas, and that is why we are ensuring that the expansion of charging infrastructure applies to the whole country. That's how we work. When I talk about infrastructure planning and directives for future national plans, it is incredibly important that we are able and dare to be clear about climate change as well as socio-economics, gender perspectives, housing construction and regional policy. This is the perspective that has often been absent. In the national plan we have now, which I had the privilege of presenting in 2018, there are historically great efforts, not least on what is climate-smart travel, i.e. the railways. There are for the first time major government investments in bicycle – this was previously a municipal or regional responsibility, but now the state is taking greater responsibility for bicycle policy. There are more resources available for shipping than has ever been possible, as the state is now taking greater responsibility to ensure that shipping plays a more important role as part of our transport system. That's how we use politics to change society. It is not least important in a Sweden that is transport dependent – perhaps more than a lot of other countries, with the great distances we have. We are also an export-dependent industrial country that needs good opportunities in the future. I note that Magnus Jacobsson believes that climate resources should be used effectively. This is an argument, of course, but the Christian Democrats' draft budget actually involved brutal savings in the climate allowance. You do not get away from that; it was reduced ambitions. Other things were prioritised, and that worries me. After Greta and thousands upon thousands not only of young people but people around the world have demonstrated and shown their concern about climate change, politicians in all parties must understand that this is a new situation, that we need to change and that we should make that transition jointly – in rural areas, in big cities and with all the different modes of transport. We will use our common resources to help industries change. Sweden can become a world leader here. Those of you who know me and have heard me before know that in the discussion about us becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country, I tend to point to the need to be a permanent world exhibition. It has become a challenge for industries to see what they can do to be part of the world exhibition. Now we see how with the work in Fossil-free Sweden we get both the car industry, shipping and aviation to move forward the positions and show that you can change. The instruments of taxation and calculation, which today's interpellation is about, are important parts of this, but the most important thing is the determination to cope with the transformation that we all now have to demonstrate and to know that it also creates jobs, hope and confidence in the future in Sweden. I'm convinced of that.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-848	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my fellow debaters for a frivolous and wonderful debate – it is appreciated! I'll take the last question first. If I remember correctly, the joint budget of Moderates and Christian Democrats that went through in this House at that time had Sweden's second largest budget in the field of the environment. It is therefore correct that the Social Democrats had a larger proposal, but it cannot be said that Sweden's second largest over time is bad – it becomes a bit strange, Madam President. I would also like to point out in all humility that we car and lorry electrification agencies in our own budget have set aside more money than the government. We have devoted more money than the government to the electrification of aircraft, and we have also on several occasions – as we will do in this budget – argued for a new vehicle and fuel taxation that aims to be able to face up to the injustice that exists in rural areas but also to be able to be more governing in metropolitan areas. Today I have the privilege of living a part of my life here and being able to travel collectively. It's a privilege I don't have at home. I don't have that freedom. I do not really share the view that you are alone in the car. Every morning when I drive my daughter to school, I find that the other cars I meet at school are full of children; there are not so many alone. Parents do not tend to go to school, but they depend on getting there and being able to leave the children there. With regard to the question I have raised, Madam President, it is an environmental policy problem if you have research saying that the price should be around SEK 1 but our authorities go forward with SEK 7. This concerns me because it is also about the credibility of research and politics. If it is the case that rural areas are once again disadvantaged, it creates a lack of credibility for both environmental research and environmental policy, and I regret that, Madam President.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-853	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for a frivolous debate and interesting discussion! Basically, this is about the starting points we should have when building societies, what directives we give and what socio-economic calculations we have for calculations. The fine thing is, and this is because of the interpellation, that there are publicly reported figures, figures that can be reviewed. The socio-economic calculations can be reviewed by researchers. We can have a political discussion on this, which is probably so important, and then we can reach agreement jointly, at best, politically. After all, it does not always happen that we come to joint decisions on the political priorities we are about to make. My point is that we should have as good a basis as possible. We will ensure that they are based on scientific evidence. The authorities have a responsibility to provide politicians with good data on socio-economic calculations. It must be borne in mind, to a greater extent than ever before, that climate is actually a factor affecting all our conditioning. We have a climate law that our authorities have to deal with. These bases form the basis for the political assessments that we will then make of what level of ambition we will have for infrastructure building and what instruments we will have in the future. I, who originally come from Kosta, a small community in the middle of Småland with 800 inhabitants, have all the understanding, respect and sympathy that the car is important. Maybe there was a bus a week. There was no subway or high-speed train. I know how important the car is. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that we look at how we can reset the car park, phase out the fossil fuel, find electrification, biofuels and reduction obligations, so that you can drive a car where you have no other alternative and do so without feeling that you are a burden to the environment. So technology-optimistic I am, and so I hope that we will be able to build Sweden stronger even in the future.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-858	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked Prime Minister Stefan Löfven if he intends to develop some form of regional matrix within the framework of the Council of State's work in order to jointly assess the issues the government decides on or acts so that the relevant ministers take the initiative, so that no part of Sweden feels disadvantaged or neglected. The question has been handed over to me. The government believes that it should be possible to live, live and operate in all parts of the country. Good and attractive habitats where women and men want to live and develop on equal terms wherever they live are important. The Government therefore has an ongoing dialogue with municipalities, regions, state authorities and business stakeholders on development issues, regional needs, challenges, and we are monitoring developments throughout the country. To this end, the county boards have the task of monitoring the state of the counties and informing the government of what is particularly important for the government to know about. More recently, much of the dialogue and government efforts have focused on the consequences of the ongoing pandemic. The government has taken a number of measures aimed at mitigating the consequences of the pandemic for, among other things, jobs and entrepreneurship across the country. Work to help businesses and public actors through the crisis is ongoing. Decisions have been taken on, inter alia, a system of short-term lay-off, conversion aid, broad investment in more training places, state aid for the costs of sick pay for companies, reduced social security contributions and rental discounts to reduce costs for businesses, to avoid notice and to overcome the acute crisis. The government has also contributed SEK 3 billion to the regional public transport authorities. The government has so far provided increased general government grants to municipalities and regions totalling SEK 2 6 billion onor in 2020, of which SEK 12.5 billion onor is a permanent addition. The support has been allocated according to the population and has been done to strengthen the ability to maintain socially important functions such as care, school and care. In addition, the Riksdag has provided an additional SEK 2.5 billion in 2020 through committee initiatives. In addition, the cost adjustment changed from 2020 onwards, benefiting municipalities and regions in more populated areas. The Government and the cooperation parties have also announced that the budget proposal for 2021 proposes an additional contribution to regions and municipalities of another SEK 10 billion for 2021 and that SEK 5 billion is also calculated for 2022 in general state grants. General state aid to the sector means that it is up to each municipality and region to decide what purpose the funds should be used for. The municipalities may, among other things, use these funds for their airports. According to the regulation(1997:263) on regional transport infrastructure planning, the county plans may also include grants for non-state airports which are considered to be strategically important. It is the stakeholders in each county who make such an assessment. Continuous dialogue and cooperation continue to be essential in order to respond jointly to the consequences of the pandemic for the entire country's entrepreneurs and their employees. The government has therefore set up an organiser whose role is to strengthen and support information gathering, coordination and communication in the government's work to address the consequences of the pandemic's effects on business and social partners across the country. The government and some government agencies also cooperate and engage in dialogue with our Nordic neighbours on border issues. Cooperation and dialogue are about finding solutions that enable continued work commuting, goods transport, border trade and tourism and responsible travel to and from Sweden. I would like to end by emphasising that regions, municipalities and other actors are doing a fantastic job to meet challenges and contribute to creating long-term sustainable development in Sweden. At the same time, the Government is engaged in active and long-term work to create the conditions for the whole country to seize opportunities and deal with the challenges that arise.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-868	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now, by the standards of the House, it is beginning to be the late hour. We are on the eleventh, closing and last interpellation today, and we have had a Question Time, so in some sense it can be said that everything has only been preparation for this crescendo, this fireworks that now ends it all. Madam President, I would like After all, I put the interpellation to the Prime Minister, because I think this is a horizontal government issue, and he is the main representative of the government. Now he has chosen to refrain from replying to it and Minister Nilsson has to shoulder this cloak to defend the government's policy in this area. Madam President, I would like In my interpellation, I developed a number of issues that took their starting point in South Sweden, the part of the country that I represent in the Swedish Parliament in addition to representing the Moderate Coalition Party. It is notable that in his response, Minister Jennie Nilsson has no South Swedish dimension at all. Then let me just remind you a little bit of what I highlighted in my interpellation. Now, during the pandemic, we in South Sweden have met with closed borders. We also had travel restrictions and the recommendation not to go to Denmark. It is probably perceived as rather tone-deaf in South Sweden how to handle this from Stockholm's side. I think there is a general feeling that there is no interest and commitment in Stockholm. A few months ago, in early spring, we had a discussion about the fact that Danish was about to pump 290 000 cubic metres of waste water into Öresund, and there were no contacts between the Danish and Swedish authorities. It took a good while before anyone woke up in Stockholm. There was a feeling that there was no interest and commitment in Stockholm. After the outbreak of the pandemic, we've had this with the plane. The government tried to find some solutions quite quickly. They procured a support system that made there were flights to and from Stockholm to Visby, Kiruna and Sundsvall – but nothing south. I think there was a feeling that there was no interest and commitment in Stockholm. There have been complaints from industry, not least in Skåne, that important investments have been prevented because there is uncertainty about electricity supplies. Managing directors of well-known companies such as Pågens and Lindab have publicly been out in this discussion, but this has been dismissed by government representatives. There is a firm feeling, Madam President, that there is no interest and commitment in Stockholm. The migration wave during the last three months of 2015 meant that Skåne and South Sweden in particular received the first blow, which then resulted in us introducing different forms of passport regulations so that the Öresund trains, the commuter trains between Skåne and Själland, came to get border controls on board. There was a definite feeling that the interest and commitment to what happened in Skåne was lacking. All this I emphasise in my interpellation, which then lands on the issue of making decisions and dealing with different things from different countries, there is some interest in understanding these people's conditions. Madam President, I would like In Minister Jennie Nilsson's answer, there are on an abstract level billions here and structures there. But there is absolutely nothing to say that we are wrong in South Sweden who perceive that the commitment and interest are lacking in Stockholm.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-878	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. It has been clear today, following the debate on television, that there is a firm need to be allowed to debate again in this House, so there have been many debates and a long day for many. I have noted that Mr Wallmark has been busy in the speaker's chair during the day. That is good, and I appreciate Members of Parliament who want to debate, raise issues and are committed. Regarding Hans Wallmark's specific questions from Skåne's and South Sweden's perspective, he began by saying that he is a representative of Skåne as well as he is a representative of the Moderates – this is based on the fact that this is where he lives and where he has his constituency. I am a representative of Halland, which is an adjacent county to Skåne, so I also know well what it is like to live in another part of Sweden and to spend the week in Stockholm. I also partially recognise the debate that exists on the country versus Stockholm. I have been given the responsibility to answer this interpellation which contains a number of different issues, a little too many actually for an interpellation. As the question focuses on our responsibilities and on regional development, and in what way we see it, it is up to me as the responsible minister of state to answer. However, I do not share many of Mr Wallmark's conclusions on the government's lack of interest in a number of issues. As far as the waste water is concerned, Minister Isabella Lövin contacted us as soon as we learned about this, which we, like everyone else, got through the media because the Danish authorities failed to inform them in the way they should have. She made direct contact and stopped the situation, both there and from time to time and in a longer term perspective. Nor do I share the view that there is a lack of interest in the issue of electricity capacity. I know that there are many constructive discussions on how to deal with the capacity shortfall that may occur in some parts of the country on certain occasions, even though we do have a surplus of electricity overall. It is about making massive investments in transmission capacity, removing bottlenecks, reinvesting in renewables and so on. This discussion is ongoing with Skåne, among others. However, I share the concerns expressed by Mr Wallmark about the situation we are in at the moment. The Pandemin has shown a clear point which is raised in the interpellation and which concerns me a lot and, I believe, also Hans Wallmark: Nordic cooperation has not kept up with the pressure in the way we had thought and expected. I have great respect for the fact that countries choose to deal with the situation differently according to their strategies and the situation in each country. But our country shares the border with several Nordic countries: in Skåne it is Denmark, in Värmland it is Norway and in Haparanda it is Finland. The measures taken have taken very little account of the fact that people actually live, work and work across borders even in this situation. The government has done an enormous amount of work here. Several different ministers have had both indirect and direct contacts, and I think we have had about twenty Nordic Councils of Ministers to try to find constructive solutions. This work needs to continue, but above all we need to learn from it in order to deal with it in the future.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-888	Madam President, I would like Jennie Nilsson is absolutely right that I have informed you about the Nordic dimension in the pandemic. Last week I had an interpellation debate with Minister Anna Hallberg, a Nordic Minister for Cooperation, and earlier today I had an interpellation debate with Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde on these issues. I believe that the damage that has been done to the Nordic feeling should not be underestimated. It can be repaired, but you really have to care about it and care about it. Here I would like more from the government. The Nordic dimension cannot and should not be ignored. Madam President, I would like When I saw that the Prime Minister did not please Mr Wallmark in answering this question, I was in a way happy that it was Jennie Nilsson from Hylte, Halland who was given the assignment, precisely because she represents South Sweden and the Social Democrats – above all, the first is the best. I thought that will come an answer that is sympathetic. Some of the things I am raising up are also in front of my colleagues in Halland, and I also meet citizens from Halland. But the answer was clinically free from the South Swedish dimension. I also had a debate article in the South Swedish tabloid newspaper Evening Post today, and Anders Davidsson from Ängelholm contacted me and reminded me that in addition to the examples I listed about aviation, refugee flows and electricity, we have different electricity price areas. In South Sweden we pay a lot more for our electricity than anyone else does. I do not share Jennie Nilsson's view that there is a dialogue going on. In terms of electricity supply, the industry is genuinely upset. In South Sweden, clean investments are made more difficult and in some cases prevented as there is no guarantee of sufficient electricity supply. It's good to think about expanding, but this is here and now. Some time ago, someone also pointed out the closure of Barsebäck, for which the Social Democratic Government was responsible. All of this is partly linked. Isabella Lövin reacted after a while when it came to the water, beautifully so. But when you put one after another on each other, a picture of the government emerges. My question to the Minister for Rural Development, who is part of the government collective, is: When you sit there and make various suggestions on each other, do you ever think about how it can be perceived in different parts of the country? I still have to say, although I do not come from Halland but Skåne, that after a number of years there is a rather widespread feeling that this insight is missing and a feeling that the interest and commitment to South Sweden is missing in Stockholm.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-897	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Hans Wallmark. I think I need to disappoint Hans Wallmark a little, because I will begin by answering the question that came at the end. I have the same picture that Hans Wallmark expresses, that there is a feeling in Skåne, Halland and many parts of Sweden that it is us against them, the rest of the country against Stockholm. However, it is not a new feeling that occurred last year or even in recent years, but it is a feeling that was clearly strong during, for example, the time when we had eight years with an alliance government. I've been politically active for a long time, and so has Hans Wallmark. If both of us are to be honest in this context, it is a feeling that has existed for a very long time. My biggest challenge and ambition is to overcome this feeling, and I think it is very important that we work with sharp structures to have a dialogue and listen and feel. For example, we do this with political forums and official forums, and we have county boards and governors and so on. We also need to change some basic structures in terms of how we view politics. We have long, not least during the time of the alliance government in power, had the attitude that all decisions should be the same and shaped on the basis of something that I sometimes call not a Stockholm norm but perhaps at least a city norm. It takes very little account of the fact that we have an elongated country with different conditions. This feeling and insight is even greater if you go to the small municipalities in Skåne – those that are a little more peripheral. I believe that this requires a common picture. This type of change needs to be made widely, because it needs to be long-term and sustainable. There is a need for greater resources in terms of welfare, a change in structures which means that the money available can be used more flexibly and the development of regional and municipal influence and the potential for influence in the near future. I think this is important. I also believe that we often believe that we are already doing this in the decisions we take, because there is no malice in this. But when you look at the actual outcome of, for example, targeted state subsidies and in the field of school, you see that it becomes clear that there is a good idea that you want to clearly identify the type of action, problem or challenge you want to solve with a special bag of money. The problem with it is many times for some municipalities that they may not have co-financing. If it is a small peripheral municipality, they do not have officials able to find all the state subsidies that may be applied for, which in itself creates a feeling that you do not understand their situation. We need to take a real look at these issues and find better solutions where we are able to take some form of political responsibility, for example that we want to invest in school. But perhaps we should not do so through a huge number of different, very narrowly targeted state subsidies, but perhaps we need to find other ways that allow regional and municipal considerations to be better taken into account. I think this is important. Mr Wallmark raised an issue linked, for example, to border controls against Denmark, which surprises me a little. Here I would like to ask a question back. Should I interpret what Hans Wallmark said linked to his being upset about the existence of border controls and the fact that you are angry about Stockholm as meaning that border controls should be removed? If so, it's a big story.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-905	Madam President, I would like It is just as Minister Jennie Nilsson states that there have been debates in the past, even during the alliance years, about a regional imbalance. I have participated in them myself. At that time, during the alliance years, I was quite self-critical of the government, of which my party was a part. I am therefore a little surprised that the Social Democrats do not have the slightest bit of self-criticism. I would also like to say, on behalf of South Sweden, that I think it has become worse. I don't think it was good before, but I think it's gotten worse. In my interpellation I listed a whole line, and I think it is a sign that it has become more, worse and heavier. As far as border controls are concerned, the answer is very simple: I have always been in favour of having an external border control, a Nordic border, on the border between Germany and Denmark. I find border controls in a labour market region inappropriate. As little as you should have to look at a passport between Uppsala and Stockholm, you should basically have to look at a passport between Malmö and Copenhagen. Then I still think that the imbalance is not given a really reasonable answer. I would like to emphasise, Madam President, that when I say Stockholm, I do not mean the Stockholms as such, the one and a half million people who live here. They must also suffer enough from having a social democratic government. I mean Stockholm in the sense that it is the iron triangles between the departments, the authorities and the government. There I think you can see a lack of interest. I shall take a question that the Government itself has in its written answer, and that is the airports, where you have general contributions. While having general grants, a number of routes were procured. Everyone went north, except Visby. It has also decided to provide support to a number of airports, 22 more specifically, of the country's 32. I come from a locality, Ängelholm, which receives SEK 0 from the government.
i-e9d36d9474f49002-910	Madam President, I would like Ängelholm received SEK 0 from your government too, if you are to be completely concrete. I come from Halmstad, and we do not get any money in that pot either because there are other considerations in this. But maybe it's an interpellation for another minister than me. However, I think it is important to note that it was therefore not cut into stone. One must be prepared to constantly look at what criteria are used to support this and what is relevant and to ensure that it is appropriate and has the desired effect. In this situation, it was the airports that were chosen to procure. I must also note that what I asked Mr Wallmark was not what he thinks about border controls but what the Moderates think about border controls. I take it that you do not have the opinion that they should be demolished without this being a Skåne opinion. I believe that both Social Democrats and Moderates in Skåne and that region and also many in Halland share it. However, the aim is to keep migration policy in order. On the whole, it has been agreed that this is the order that should apply. I would also like to note that Mr Wallmark dismissed my reply as mentioning abstract billions. Of course you can always say that, but it is ultimately so that billions are money that creates the conditions for securing welfare, creating growth and development and being able to invest in infrastructure, care for the elderly, health care and so on. I would say that the abstract billions are what is absolutely most important for all regions, including Stockholm, sorry, Skåne. You could say that was Freudian – Stockholm instead of Skåne. This also applies to Halland and Norrland. Here I am pleased that I belong to a government that wants to invest itself out of tough times, rather than a government that normally prioritises tax cuts and job tax deductions as a solution to all problems.
