i-47b596c3990e222c-3	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by asking for the approval of reservation 1. Today we are debating the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on Nordic and Arctic cooperation – our annual debate on cooperation in our immediate surroundings. This debate is both urgent and topical, perhaps to a very great extent this year. We know that 90 per cent of Nordic residents value close Nordic cooperation and that 60 per cent, i.e. six out of ten, want to see it deepen and strengthen further. The Nordic governments have expressed the ambition that the Nordic region should be the most integrated region in the world. It's been springed for the North. I and many others have spoken about a renaissance of Nordic cooperation, but I must admit, Mr President, that no matter how beautiful the Nordic light is in summer, it has been slowed down by a frost night that not only the weak but also the healthy can call autumn. Sadly, during the plague of the pandemic, we have witnessed how the vision of the world's most integrated region has faded, at the very time when it may be most needed. The Nordic countries as a region should be as united and coordinated as possible, but instead we have been able to see countless pitfalls and a situation in which Sweden has, in many respects, chosen a diametrically opposed strategy compared to our neighbours and has largely replaced political responsibility with civil servants, which has proved devastating. This has meant that we can now see a certain pattern repeating itself and that the Nordic passport union unfortunately feels as distant as during the migration crisis in 2015 and beyond. The number of deaths has skyrocketed in Sweden but has been kept at a low level in our neighbouring countries so far, and this now means that Sweden is being quarantined as the gates of the Nordic countries slowly open. Mr President, there will be a need for a series of measures at both national and Nordic level, even now that the crisis has been going on for some time, for any future waves and not least for future preparedness. We who work in the Nordic cooperation are inspired by the concepts of Nordic benefit and exchange of experience. We will work together where synergies are best and exchange experiences where we learn the most. In this case, we need to learn from our mistakes and set up not only a national Commission that reviews the measures and outcomes of the Corona crisis, but also a Nordic Commission that evaluates measures and their consequences in our Nordic countries during this historical test. Mr President, I would like to The report takes its starting point in the past year, although a certain focus on the historical situation in which our societies now find themselves cannot be avoided, and in the fact that the Swedish democrats with several earlier and not least last year pushed for a strengthened Nordic crisis preparedness. These include security of supply in the supply of medicine and medical supplies in the Nordic countries, especially during pandemics, as pointed out in the Nordic crisis preparedness strategy adopted during the Nordic Council General Session here in Stockholm last autumn. In a broader perspective, based on the experiences of the major forest fires in the dry summer of 2018, it is important to inventory and establish resources, such as a common fleet or emergency stocks for certain products, where the Nordic benefit can be greater and clearer compared to responsibility at national, regional or local level in the individual countries. We therefore believe that the Government should endorse the initiatives taken by the Nordic Council, which are also in line with the requests contained in our accompanying motion for a resolution to the Government's letter, which we are discussing today. In our annual follow-up motion on Nordic cooperation, I would like to highlight three important aspects and conclude with a few comments on the Arctic. The UK's accession to the EU means that Swedish-British and Nordic-British relations may need to find new, more and stronger forms. Together we have a long history of exchanges with the UK, extensive trade and very old historical relations with large parts of the UK. A stronger and more coordinated Nordic voice in the EU is becoming increasingly important, as more and more power has been concentrated in the Union at the expense of the independent nation states. Since the Nordic countries share social systems as well as values and land borders, we have much to gain by coordinating and coordinating both in the work at EU level and in the consequences after EU decisions when it comes to implementing directives. A joint Nordic Legislative Council would also serve this interaction and legislative process and benefit the proactive work of solving unnecessary border barriers well. Through the similarities in living conditions and millennia of close and natural relations between the populations, a Scandinavian and Nordic cultural circle has emerged. Nordic cultural cooperation is the cornerstone of the community that binds the Nordic countries together. Cultural cooperation reflects the basis of common values on which we stand in the Nordic countries. The Nordic literature cannon presented in 2008 contributed to both an increased debate and an increased interest in Nordic culture. I believe that it can be a springboard for the same arguments that are now in place and which were raised already in 2008 by my Danish colleague in the Nordic Council Bureau, former Minister for Education and Culture, Bertel Haarder, that is, the need for more and more people to know their history and their collective memory. The Nordic Council of Ministers should therefore follow up the initiative on the Nordic literature cannon through a Nordic cultural cannon that also includes areas such as architecture, visual arts, music, performing arts, film, etc. in the school and education system. Knowing one's collective memory and arranging all parts for a coherent whole has rarely been more important than today. When it comes to the Baltic Sea, fishing is a traditional and often important industry in all our Nordic countries. Fishing is so associated with several of the Nordic countries that it can be counted as a to some extent culture-bearing industry. There are issues at the intersection between the economy, cultural heritage and the environment that are similar or similar between countries and that would need a systematic approach, not least because the different values and different countries are intertwined. We see that many fish stocks are under heavy strain today. We recently heard a documentary in Swedish Radio about the situation of Baltic herring on the east coast but also how the cod population has developed and how serious the situation is for those operating in the fisheries sector. This may mean that it will not be possible to fish in the future. As a result, traditional coastal fishing and therefore cultural heritage are also challenged. In the light of this, well-thought-out strategies covering all the Nordic countries and the different values of fishing have an opportunity to create synergies between long-term economic activity, cultural heritage and the environment. We believe that the government should initiate a dialogue with the other Nordic countries to develop common environmental standards and develop management systems in the different countries so that they harmonize with each other. The aim should be to optimise the long-term benefits, ensure viable fish stocks and enable live coastal fishing. Promoting and strengthening Nordic fisheries is also in line with the strategic priority set for a green Nordic region. It is environmental policy that makes a difference. Finally, Mr President, I welcome a new revised Arctic strategy, since the old one has been a few years on the back, and that the government has announced that the additional one will contain defence and security policy aspects. This has been lacking and can no longer be avoided in the geopolitical aspects that exist in this area.
i-47b596c3990e222c-21	Mr President, I would like to We have agreed that the Nordic region will be the world's most integrated region. It is something that gives hope and has great potential in terms of climate solutions and energy, but also in terms of social and legal issues. But for such cooperation to work and be credible, joint decisions and concrete actions are needed. Border barriers issues are a priority for Nordic cooperation. The idea is that we will become the most cohesive region in the world, where it is easy to move between countries and where we can easily move from one Nordic country to another without administrative obstacles. Unfortunately, Nordic cooperation has had a thorn in connection with the Corona crisis. The successes that have been achieved in border barriers were blown away. Borders were closed without deeper talks between countries. And the opening of the borders has not meant the degree of cooperation we would have liked when we have such extensive cooperation among ourselves otherwise, despite the Nordic crisis preparedness cooperation. To some extent it is understandable, as the Nordic countries have not had the same degree of preparedness for a crisis of this size. That is something that needs to be discussed further, so that we can face crises in the future. We have also seen a lack of consistency when borders have been closed. We saw this clearly from the outset when our border regions were hit hard. Both trade and care were affected, but also the everyday lives of those living there. At the Finnish border, the Finnish State deployed border guards who have not been fully consistent with the rules, and border guards have been given great powers. This is just one of the problems that have been created. Sweden should, in the opinion of the Left Party, work towards increased cooperation in the Nordic countries, including on LGBTQ issues. All Nordic countries have today introduced same-sex marriages. It's moving forward. But we need to work more on this issue, and that should apply to everyone. That is why we in the Left Party propose that the regulation on certain international relations concerning marriage, adoption and guardianship should apply to same-sex marriage and partnership. The regulation is based on a family law convention between the Nordic countries from 1931 which requires reciprocity. Since all Nordic countries now allow same-sex marriages, there are no longer sustainable reasons to exempt the regulation from the general rule that all laws on marriage and marriage should be applied in a similar way to same-sex marriages. These are, for example, discriminatory barriers to borders, which make it possible, among other children who have been created by assisted reproduction, to be adopted by their parents when moving between countries. We can't have this in 2020. That is why I choose to apply for reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, I would like to tell you a little bit about the proposals made by the Nordic Green Left, which is a group of the Nordic Council in which the Left Party is a member,. In the Committee for Growth and Development in the Nordic countries, where I sit with my Norwegian comrade Freddy Ø vstegård, we have put forward a proposal for night trains in the Nordic countries that have been well received by the committee. One of our hopes is that the Nordic countries will become a role model in protecting the environment and fighting global warming. The transport sector is one of the sectors that contributes most to global warming. Before the coronapandemia, aviation accounted for 4 to 5 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions, where air traffic was one of the fastest growing sources of emissions. According to a study by the European Federation for Transport and Environment, aviation emissions have doubled in Europe since 1990. During the pandemic, air traffic in Europe has fallen by 70%. Emissions are decreasing, but for the wrong reason. In order to preserve the Nordic countries' air connections, several Nordic governments have joined in with massive support to airlines. Of course there is still a need for air transport in the future. But we need to create a more sustainable transport sector that extends across the coronatides. Structural changes are needed to prevent emissions from rising to their previous levels as the crisis subsides. Another suggestion, apart from the night trains, is to investigate common solutions for establishing a Nordic aviation tax. The introduction of a tax on fuel for flights within the Nordic countries would be an example for the EU and the rest of the world. We believe that although air transport has suffered from the pandemic, there is still evidence to investigate a common Nordic aviation tax. All Nordic countries have since the 1990s taxes on carbon dioxide emissions. But aviation fuel taxation has been the exception. Taxing car fuel but not aviation fuel represents a clear subsidy to the aviation industry and cannot be in line with the ambition of being a world leader in the fight against global warming. Unfortunately, the committee chose to vote down the proposal. Nevertheless, we believe that there is a Nordic benefit in finding cooperation in this regard. When the aviation industry today receives huge aid packages to overcome the crisis, they should be linked to environmental and climate requirements in order to contribute to the ecological transition. Short domestic flights should be replaced by trains. It is a minimum for a future society. Now is the time to tackle the structural solutions needed to build a sustainable ecological society, and now we have the chance. Mr President, I would like to Other proposals that we have put forward in the Nordic Council in 2019/ 20 are about stopping adoptions from dictatorships or legally insecure countries, deepening Nordic cooperation against right-wing extremism and giving unaccompanied asylum seekers permanent residence permits. During these coronatides we see consequences for this group. Here in Stockholm, some of these young people live in the forest in tents. Further proposals that we have put forward in the Nordic Council are about taking a stand against the global gag rule, a rule in the United States that prohibits any financial support to international organisations that carry out or refer to abortion, and build stronger Nordic cooperation in the international work for women's sexual and reproductive health and rights. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a little extra at a time when we know that the crisis has hit women and children particularly hard, both nationally and internationally. According to the research institute Guttmacher Institute, for example, a 10% reduction in access to care during the pandemic around the world would result in around 49 million women not having access to contraception despite the need. It would also lead to 15 million accidental pregnancies and an increase in unsafe abortions, birth complications and death for women and newborns. This is an incredibly important issue to work on now during the pandemic.
i-47b596c3990e222c-35	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Nordic and Arctic cooperation. I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. As chairman of the Nordic Committee for Growth and Development, I intend to highlight and reflect on a number of areas. Mr President, I would like to I will start by taking the lead in today's situation around covid-19. As early as 1952, freedom of passports was introduced in the Nordic countries, and in 1958 internal border controls were removed between the Nordic countries. Iceland and the Faroe Islands respectively joined in 1965 and 1966. The freedom of passports and the removal of internal border controls have served the Nordic countries well. This has meant an open labour market as well as opportunities to live and work as a border commuter, study in other Nordic countries, tourist and more. Both decisions were essentially aimed at preventing and combating border barriers. I am also the representative of the Nordic Council in the Council of Ministers' Border Barriers Council. It is an exciting and interesting mission that stems from following the fundamental decisions made in the 1950s for an open Nordic region that promotes mobility between and within the countries with the aim of creating prosperity and exchange between northern peoples. Mr President, I would like to However, the Covid-19 pandemic has put the problem of border barriers in a new and unfortunately painful light. Our Nordic neighbours have closed the borders with Sweden to reduce the spread of infection, while we know that according to the latest information there are more infected people in Tornio than in Haparanda, for example, and that the Copenhagen region has had a larger and more extensive spread than Malmö. Our Danish friends are allowed to travel to Sweden, but only Swedes with the necessary reasons may enter Denmark. Our Finnish friends keep a closed border for all Swedes except for those who have a property or summer house in Finland. The latest exciting development is the Norwegian Government's decision to continue to keep the border closed to Sweden but at the same time allow Norwegians to tourist on Gotland. What I know is the majority of other tourists on Gotland from the Stockholm area – during a normal year, that is. However, Norway's decision shows that the covid-19 pandemic strikes differently in the different regions. Therefore, closed national borders in the passport-free Nordic region become a blunt decision on the protection of infection and a particularly serious economic decision for all who depend on supply via border commuting and cross-border trade. If there were to be some form of restrictions or guidelines in these areas, I would suggest that, for example, the entire Torne Valley should have its own restrictions and guidelines and that Jämtland Härjedalen and Tr øndelag should have their own restrictions and guidelines. Värmland, Dalarna and Inland Sweden would also have their own, across the borders. This is perhaps a small but important observation for the future. Here, governments must now forcefully focus on the declaration made by the ministers of state that the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030. The nationalism that has partly taken hold, not least through social media and a great deal of inflated scare journalism, leads in a completely opposite direction in relation to the commitment of the prime ministers. An open Nordic region is a prerequisite for further development of the successful Nordic model. Mr President, I would like to In the Nordic Council in general and in the Committee on Growth and Development in particular, the call for the establishment of a Council of Ministers for Transport in the Nordic countries has been a hot and urgent topic. I do not know how many letters have been written to the Council of Ministers about this demand. Most recently, a unanimous Bureau of the Nordic Council has also pointed this out in writing and orally. Transport ministers and prime ministers have so far been relatively uninterested since the removal of the Transport Council in 2005. At the last Nordic Ministerial Meeting, a decision was made to set up a working group to sort out the matter and reflect on which issues can be raised in a constellation as a Council of Ministers for Transport. This is, in itself, an important first step, but it is far from a fact that it will eventually become a Council of Ministers for Transport. We are keeping a very close eye on this from the Nordic Council. The reason why this is so urgent is, now that we are talking about the world with a sustainable and integrated region in 2030, that cross-border transport alternatives are a prerequisite for the implementation of the declaration. There are 26 to 27 projects to promote cross-border rail transport, both for passenger transport and for freight transport. Nordic consensus and political will are needed here. I would like to thank the Swedish Government, which, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has agreed to add additional funds to increase night rail traffic in Scandinavia and to the continent. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention something about hydrogen. Major efforts are currently being made around the EU to develop hydrogen production as a very important alternative or complement to mainly other fuels. Hydrogen is an energy carrier, just like electricity. This means that hydrogen is not a primary energy source but can be used to store, transport and supply energy. Flexibility is great because hydrogen can be produced from all types of energy sources. Today it is mainly from natural gas, but in the long term it is renewable energy from, for example, solar, wind and biomass that are the interesting sources. However, it can also be obtained from electricity from nuclear power. The Committee for Growth and Development has unanimously supported the Social Democratic member proposal that the Nordic Council recommends that the Nordic Council of Ministers examine how to promote the use of hydrogen at the Nordic level by producing a Nordic strategy for hydrogen and examine to what extent the Nordic countries can jointly use EU funding in the development of the use of hydrogen. We hope that the Council of Ministers will now take the baton and follow it up. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say something briefly about the Arctic. We Social Democrats welcome the fact that, during the year, the government will present a new Arctic Strategy to the Riksdag. As we all know, global warming has a particularly important impact on the Arctic area. This affects the living conditions of the residents there but also the conditions in the Nordic countries. It is good that there is a security policy dimension to the strategy. It is important to have a position when the major powers USA, Russia and China take an increased interest in the climate effects of the Arctic and move forward positions to ensure their own geopolitical interests when these opportunities arise as a result of warming. Many people want to access natural resources in the Arctic, and it is essential to preserve, as far as possible, the unique biodiversity of the Arctic. It is also important that countries with Arctic interests respect and protect all that is unique to the Arctic. As a result of the melting of ice, new fairways and opportunities for both freight and war ships and tourism vessels will also be moved more flexibly in the Arctic. Good coordination between all countries and a well-functioning regulatory framework will be required to ensure stable ship safety from a rescue perspective. Respect between countries will also be required to prevent escalation and possible ship incidents.
i-47b596c3990e222c-53	Mr President and the Government. It looks like an idea that the Riksdag is holding a Nordic debate just on 15 June – the day when several countries decided to open up their borders to each other after they were abruptly and uncoordinatedly closed a few months ago in response to the pandemic. But for the Swedes it is still closed. Of course there are possibilities for work commuting, but basically it is closed. It is closed, with borders that cannot be crossed in the Öresund region, in Tornedalen, in Jämtland Härjedalen, in Värmland and in Bohuslän. Mr President, I would like to Let's just say it's a failure. It is a failure for the Swedish government but also a failure for our relations here in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I would like to We hold this time of year according to tradition a debate on Nordic and Arctic issues, year after year. The starting point is the letter submitted by the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council and the Government's letter on the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It will be easy to look back – this year towards 2019. At the same time, there is every reason to start from what has been the point of view of what is to come. Mr President, I would like to I have been entrusted with the task of taking up the chair of the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council. As such, I am now able to thank my colleagues from all parties for their committed work. We also very much appreciate the wisdom and knowledge available in the secretariat under Lena Eklöf's leadership that we have at our disposal. Last year, 2019, was intense, when Sweden and thereby the Riksdag were responsible for – and well conducted – the 71st session at week 44. This is something the Speaker can also take with him to all parliamentary staff. There is also a new Nordic Minister for Cooperation in Anna Hallberg, and she has already several times given priority to meeting the Swedish delegation. In our letter from the delegation to the Riksdag, we note that the role of the Nordic Council is to take initiatives where problems can be solved at the Nordic level or where new opportunities can be exploited through Nordic cooperation. Furthermore, the Nordic Council is advisory on issues relating to two or more Nordic countries. The concept of "Nordic benefit" is fundamental, which means that the Nordic countries cooperate on things they can do better together than if they act separately. It is about improving people's everyday lives, exchanging experiences with a view to reforms in different areas of society and having an impact on common Nordic values in international contexts.
i-47b596c3990e222c-59	In 2019 Sweden was the Presidency of the Nordic Council, and the Presidency Programme went under the theme of the Nordic Region each day – democracy and popular support. During its presidency of the Nordic Council, the Swedish delegation wanted to focus on the importance of democracy for the well-being of our Nordic countries. The delegation also wanted to highlight the Nordic countries' unique cooperation and its foundations – the broad popular foundation. The Nordic Community has its origins in a network of personal contacts across the Nordic borders, and Nordic integration and cooperation traditionally have a broad basis. Mr President, I would like to One of the priority tasks is precisely border barriers, combating and removing border barriers. Preventing and solving border barriers means that the Nordic Council can help to simplify people's everyday lives. Border barriers are about practical and everyday problems. In order to promote a more integrated Nordic region, the barriers and lack of information that in different ways make it more difficult to move, commute, study or conduct business across borders in the Nordic region must be reduced. Recurrent themes on border barriers include e-reciplines, remote care, the possibility of commuting, studying and working in border regions, improving conditions in the construction sector, mutual recognition of professional qualifications, equal training and professional skills requirements, and removing obstacles for cultural workers. But then we must also honestly state that the way to deal with the pandemic – without visible coordination – and before that migration flows in 2015 has not contributed to increasing Nordic cohesion. We are talking about removing barriers to borders, but today Swedes see how the borders south, west, north and east are literally closed. There can hardly be any clearer obstacles than that! The political grouping that the Moderates belong to in the Nordic Council, and which I chair, has today sent a letter to the Secretariat of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen. We call for a discussion at the first physical meeting that will be possible on how the Nordic countries have handled the pandemic. It would be useful to discuss how individual countries have reacted to the crisis and what has not worked. It should be noted that the individual countries have chosen different strategies. Therefore, we should oblige ourselves to see what could have been done differently and better, i.e. to ensure that we are stronger in the face of any future crises. We need a debate that is not only retrospective but also forward-looking. Covid-19 reminds us of the need to focus on issues and challenges that lead to Nordic benefits. Our group also tabled a proposal earlier on on how a strategy could be developed for increased Nordic cooperation in the event of crisis and pressures, both military and civilian. A working group in the Nordic Council was set up under the leadership of my party friend Wille Rydman from Finland. And at our meeting in Stockholm last autumn, the Nordic Council was able to adopt a strategy for increased community security. The Nordic Council has reminded the prime ministers of this and is waiting for the response of the governments. In the wake of the pandemic, for example, it should be about vaccines. But there are also other threats, such as cybersecurity, where we in the Nordic countries should be able to do more together. Mr President, I would like to It could be argued that the Arctic is in hot heat, both as a result of climate change and of increasing geopolitical importance. In the ice melt, the link between climate change and military security is made clear. This places great demands on a more active Swedish Arctic policy. That is why it is a good thing that our demand from the M oderatians that the government should return to Parliament with a letter to anchor a future Arctic strategy now becomes a reality. Russian action in our neighbourhood has developed in a continuing aggressive direction, with a clear rejection of the European peace and security order. At the same time, the Chinese ambitions of power in the Arctic are becoming increasingly tangible and challenging Nordic interests. The Russian orientation of Arctic policy is clear in its efforts to control the North-East Passage, by sea north of Europe and Asia, as far as possible, at sea as well as in the air. The Arctic is also a central place for the Russian nuclear weapons and their second-class capabilities, which are of great importance to the country's security doctrine. In recent years, the People's Republic of China has highlighted its Arctic ambitions. The increasingly offensive course of action motivated by terms of being close to Arktisstat, now raises key questions about Beijing's view of the law of the sea, intergovernmental cooperation and international standards at its head. It can be noted that the Chinese view of the Arctic as a shared and shared heritage for the world differs considerably from the view of the South China Sea. The Chinese will to influence the development of the region has been made clear even more in recent years together with Russia as well as on its own, including the launch of a polar silk road. Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands are now increasingly affected by Chinese ambitions of power. China invests in telecommunications infrastructure and mineral exploration, and its ambition is clear to acquire ports and establish airfields. Mr President, I would like to The North is our natural place. Our neighbours are the most important ones for us. Not only the Nordic countries but also the three Baltic republics Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania deserve to be mentioned when we talk about Nordic issues and what happens in the Baltic Sea region. Unfortunately, it must be noted that there are a lot of battles directed against the Nordic region, especially in the Öresund region, despite the fact that the bridge between Skåne and Själland celebrates 20 years in a few days, on July. Some time ago, there was a lot of attention to unclean waste water that was pumped out and risked being further pumped out from the Danish side in Öresund. Unfortunately, many from Stockholm felt that the support was limited. Similarly, it is perceived as limited with regard to the border. V i is open so that Danes enter the Skåne side. At the same time we are denied from Skåne the opportunity to get to Denmark. Together with all my moderate colleagues from Skåne, we wrote a debate article in Kvällsposten, and I would like to quote a little from it: On the contrary, over the years the unique marine environment has been highlighted in many ways. In connection with the construction of the Öresund Bridge just over 20 years ago, the aquatic environment was at the heart of a tough permit and trial process. From the Danish side, the skull has always been able to be heard directed towards the power reactor in Barsebäck, which has now also been closed prematurely through political decisions. It has been strangely quiet from all these previously noisy activists. Secondly, it is also a question of safeguarding the important cooperation between Skåne and Själland. We are a divided Öresund region! ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to That's it. There are many of us who in border areas have a shared region with Denmark, with Norway and with Finland, and together we all share the Nordic region. That should be binding!
i-47b596c3990e222c-70	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the motion to be approved in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, UU14. The common history of the Nordic countries, our linguistic similarities and common values have meant a strength for millions of people in our part of the world. Previous generations in the Nordic countries have given us freedom and independence, but also democracies based on Christian ethics and Western humanism. Values are found in legislation, in norms and in the view of human dignity, equality and personal freedom. The Nordic cultural heritage with our shared values connects the Nordic countries and creates trust. Against this background, it is worrying to see the difficulties and tensions that have arisen in border areas as a result of the coronapndemine. Borders have been closed and freedom and mobility restricted. It affects individuals and families, and it affects the economy and businesses. For tourism and trade on the border with Norway, the current pandemic has resulted in a loss of revenue of between 90 and 95 per cent in some cases. On the border between Sweden and Finland, the riot fence has been set up to prevent people from shopping and moving as usual. Mr President, I would like to For generations, the reality of our bordering Nordic local communities has been characterised by collaboration, consensus and good relations. People have had work not only on the other side of the national border but also the holiday home and the favorite store. Not infrequently the closest ones have been there, relatives and friends. All this, the functioning near-border existence, is now being put to the test. The transnational community is in danger of being eroded. At the same time, economic security for all is decreasing. Each country must take responsibility for its citizens and the measures needed to stop the spread of infection and ill-health. If there is no doubt. At the same time, it is clear that the Swedish Government would have taken more account of the perspective and experience of our immediate neighbours in its Corona strategy. Unless coordination in detail, the Swedish measures should have been more consistent and consistent with those taken in Norway, Denmark and Finland. Against this background, it is essential that the dialogue between the Nordic countries is now safeguarded and that greater consideration is taken from all the Nordic governments to the thousands of people and companies living in our border areas. Mr President, I would like to Nordic cooperation needs to be developed when it comes to emergency preparedness. This is also the case in the area of defence and security policy. Russia's armament and attack wars in Georgia and Ukraine also present a threat to the Nordic countries and, not least, to our Baltic friends. The growing interest of the major powers in the Arctic is worrying. Melting ice opens new trade routes which will most likely increase fishing as well as oil and gas extraction. When the Arctic can be fully exploited for maritime transport to Europe, the distance from Japan, South Korea and northern China will be shortened by 40%. It leads to economic gains but also to a great power struggle for control over new trade routes and important natural resources. For a long time, the Arctic has been of great strategic importance to Russia, which has clearly increased its military presence in the region. Most of the country's nuclear submarines have their bases on the Kola Peninsula. Similarly, for the United States, the Arctic is important for protection against intercontinental missiles. Mr President, I would like to For the Christian Democrats, the work of the Arctic Council for Dialogue and Distress is a priority. When the major powers claim the Arctic and step up their military presence, security policy issues must be given a more prominent place within the framework of Nordic cooperation. We therefore look forward to taking note of the Government's work to renew and revise Sweden's national Arctic strategy, as requested by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Nordic countries and the Nordic countries' neighbouring regions will continue to be characterised by peace, freedom and equality for future generations – values based on solidarity across national borders.
i-47b596c3990e222c-83	Mr President, I would like to During the spring, I have had the pleasure of meeting the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council in a physical meeting in January and in two digital meetings. I would like to thank you for a good dialogue and for the constructive proposals that the Nordic Council has made on how best to take forward vision work. Today I am here to present the results of the Nordic cooperation last year, on the basis of the letter submitted by the Government to the Riksdag in mid-March. However, I would like to take this opportunity to also talk about Nordic cooperation in relation to the current situation. The Covid-19 pandemic has involved border restrictions and new border barriers in our usually so integrated region. In many areas, the crisis has also meant an intensification of the Nordic dialogue. I would also like to take the opportunity to look ahead and talk about the direction the government wants to take in future Nordic cooperation. We have a long-term view that the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region by 2030, and it is important that we stick to it. But first the results from 2019 and the continued work with the vision. Last year we achieved several important results in Nordic cooperation, and I would like to mention two examples. At the beginning of the year, the Nordic prime ministers adopted a declaration on Nordic carbon neutrality. The declaration means that we increase our ambitions and our cooperation in the field of climate change. In October, the Nordic Ministers of Culture adopted a Declaration on Cultural Heritage as a prerequisite for the safe and peaceful development of the world and the importance of preventing illicit trade in cultural goods. These are two of several examples of results in the Nordic cooperation last year. Above all, as you know, in 2019 the Prime Ministers adopted a new vision for the entire Nordic cooperation: the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region by 2030. In order to realise the vision, it was also decided on three strategic priorities that extend until 2024: a green Nordic region, a competitive Nordic region and a socially sustainable Nordic region. The vision should be translated into clear goals and concrete activities that are easy to follow up and lead to measures that better respond to the high expectations of the Nordics on cooperation. The vision is an important step towards ensuring greater Nordic benefits for our citizens and companies and strengthening the common Nordic identity. Work is now under way to realise the vision. Earlier this year, the Ministers for Cooperation decided to redistribute approximately one fifth of the Nordic Council of Ministers' budget to steer its activities towards the vision. Intensive work is also under way on drawing up action plans and projects that will lead us towards the goal. From the Swedish side, we stress that the focus should be on concrete projects and measurable goals. There is no doubt that Nordic cooperation has faced major challenges during the Corona crisis. However, the new challenges do not change our long-term goal of becoming the most sustainable and integrated region in the world. On the contrary, the crisis makes it even more important to strive to realise this vision. The Nordic Ministers for Cooperation agree that we must continue to prioritise the work of vision in order to respond to the clear mandate given to us by the Prime Ministers. We must therefore be flexible and explore opportunities for Nordic cooperation linked to the Corona crisis and that it goes hand in hand with vision work. I will briefly address border issues and barriers and our work on them last year before returning to the crisis we are now in. In 2019, we solved eight Nordic border barriers in order to eliminate and prevent border barriers, including problems related to compensation for parental leave in Sweden and to population registration in Norway. This year, however, the Border Barriers Council has also decided to focus on qualitative objectives, and priority has been given to the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, electronic ID that works across Nordic borders and the harmonisation of construction rules. For me, the new focus on qualitative objectives is welcome. It is important that we solve border barriers that make a big difference to our citizens. During the spring, a new Swedish representative was appointed to the Border Barriers Council – former Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Sweden will now take an even more active role in the Border Barriers Council, and I have great confidence in how Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht will address these issues. He has both knowledge and enthusiasm. We see the Nordic region as one of the most interwoven regions in the world. Our citizens are used to being able to live and move across borders both in their work and in their social contacts. But, Mr President, the Nordic countries have been hit differently by the coronapandemine. We have partly chosen different strategies to reduce the spread of infection. The border restrictions imposed by our neighbouring countries have had a major impact, not least on our integrated border regions, on border trade, tourism and everyday cross-border contacts. The situation is a test of the natural community and interdependence that has been built up in border regions for a long time. We must ensure that everyday exchanges can start operating across borders again – of course in a responsible way. For cross-border commuters, the crisis has led to uncertainties as to whether the rules of the country of employment or residence should apply. Many of the problems that have arisen have been resolved quickly, for example in relation to issues related to social security. The Nordic governments are working together with authorities to solve remaining border barriers that have arisen as a result of the crisis. Together, the Nordic region is the 11th largest economy in the world. We are often each other's biggest trading partners. 65 000 people normally commute across the Nordic borders. It is crucial that the positive development towards the world's most integrated region should not be jeopardised by the measures taken to prevent the proliferation of covid-19. Since March, when several countries in the immediate region introduced entry restrictions, the government has had a very close dialogue with our Nordic colleagues on the consequences of this. In recent weeks, the Swedish Government has worked hard to reach a common Nordic solution for border issues and travel. We want to see an open region, and we continue to work for that. There is concern, and there is frustration about the situation, not least in our border regions. They're hard-tested. Along the border with Norway, the important border trade has stopped. On the border with Finland, the social contacts with friends and family on the other side of the border have a break. In Skåne there has been an outrage that Danes visit Sweden while Swedes have not been able to travel to Denmark in the same way. Sweden has not closed its borders in the Nordic countries. It is important to remember that it is important for our tourism industry and for our economy when other northerners visit Sweden. But everyone in Sweden, including visitors, must of course follow current rules and recommendations linked to covid-19. Now there are a few steps on the way to an opening. That's a good thing. Finland, for example, opens up for Swedes who have a cottage or a partner to visit in Finland. It is also positive that the possibilities of opening up more to Sweden will be tested again in one to two weeks. However, we would have liked our Nordic neighbours to have announced a more far-reaching opening and a more gradual and gradual opening, especially towards our border regions. But we continue to have a close dialogue on this and on how restrictions can now be phased out step by step and in region by region. I would like to say that, at many levels, the Nordic dialogue has intensified during the crisis. It has demonstrated with extra clarity the importance of good close cooperation and close dialogue. Work is under way to further investigate the conditions for the manufacture of medical protective equipment with Swedish licences in Finland. Sweden and Norway have agreed that Sweden will buy narcotics with the intention of later being able to sell narcotics back to Norway in order to restore Nordic preparedness. These are examples of when dialogue and cooperation have been active in the crisis as well. The Nordic Ministers for Economic Affairs have set up a High Level Group to define areas where the Nordic countries can work together to restart their respective economies. Through constructive and pragmatic work, the necessary work commuting has been able to continue under the covid-19 pandemic. It has been important to safeguard socially critical functions, such as the provision of personnel to health care. But the Corona crisis has shown that our Nordic cooperation needs to be strengthened more in several respects. I have therefore proposed to my co-operation colleagues that we should clarify our responsibilities as Nordic co-operation ministers. How can we be more coordinated in the event of crises, both at the start of the crisis, during the crisis and at the end of a crisis? We need clarification on this. My proposal has gained a great deal of support from all Nordic co-operation colleagues, and we will now develop such a model. We now need to lay the foundations for strengthening Nordic collaboration. I look forward to taking on this work and continuing the good work with both the Riksdag and the Nordic Council.
i-47b596c3990e222c-112	Mr President, I would like to As the Government stated, as a new minister responsible for Nordic cooperation, she has been a frequent guest in the delegation to the Nordic Council that I lead. It's appreciated. In addition, I have praised the Government, because she usually gives very distinct and clear answers to the many questions put by active members of the delegation. I hope she can be equally clear in the answers to the questions I intend to ask. I shall begin with the first question, which concerns the closed borders. The Government refers to the fact that it is a close dialogue and that it has worked hard. Yet the borders are closed. It is obvious that this is the case. They are closed north, south, east and west. Therefore, I have to ask the question: What does the Government do to assess why other countries treat Sweden in this way? I do not think that you are mean on the part of Norway, from the Finnish side or from the Danish side, but you are doing this for some reason. Has the Government as representative of the current government reflected on why Sweden is met by these closed borders? Mr President, I would like to Last Saturday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said on television: "We had hoped that we would go further. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of Agenda was interviewed on television. I could not quite understand what he was trying to say, so perhaps the Government can help me: Why are the borders of Norway, Denmark and Finland closed to Swedes who want to cross the Torne Valley, in the Öresund region, in Värmland, in Härjedalen and in Bohuslän? Why are the borders closed against Sweden?
i-47b596c3990e222c-117	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. We are affected differently in the Nordic countries, and Sweden is hardest hit by the pandemic. The fact that the Nordic neighbours do not fully open up to Sweden obviously has to do with our neighbours wanting to protect the disease. Sweden is hardest hit in the Nordic countries, and that is of course the explanation. What we had hoped for from the government and what we have worked for and are still working for when it comes to border opening is that we do not see Sweden as a single region in terms of the infection situation. We have a lower rate of infection in several of our border regions. We have presented this, and we have had a close dialogue with the Swedish Public Health Agency, which in turn has had a close dialogue with its colleagues in the other Nordic countries in order to demonstrate the differences that exist in Sweden. Above all, the Stockholm region is most affected. This has been the reason why we have had, and still have, the hope of being able to open up step by step, especially in our border regions, to facilitate both the economy and social contacts.
i-47b596c3990e222c-121	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that once again the Government has shown an honest answer. I appreciate that. Unfortunately, it is a very sad answer, because it reveals the outline of a policy of failure. That is regrettable. I wish the Government, together with fellow governments and with the governments of the other Nordic countries, every success in trying to find such sub-regional solutions or steps in an opening. But I note that today, on 15 June, when borders are opened up in Europe and in our neighbourhood, they remain closed to Swedish citizens who want to cross to Norway, to Finland and to Denmark. It cannot be described with anything other than the word failure. I have a second question. I just noted that the government has also supported a rather comprehensive support package for SAS and the Swedish aviation industry. This is about significant billions. In it came the anti-growth message that there will be no expansion of Arlanda. I just wonder if the Swedish Government has called and congratulated the Danish Government. This is good news for Denmark and Kastrup. Kastrup will now establish itself as the major airport for Nordic and Scandinavian traffic. That is a good news to Denmark. It is also partly a good news to southern Swedes – that day, Mr President, borders are reopened in the Öresund region. I therefore hope that this good news has been given to Denmark. Arlanda and the Stockholm region are to be regretted.
i-47b596c3990e222c-127	Mr President, I would like to It is far too early to talk about a policy of failure. Sweden has been severely affected by the coronapndemine. Whether it's because of travel flows or because the infection has entered retirement homes, we need to look at it. We are now going to set up a national Commission to evaluate this. It is far too early to conclude that the path we have chosen, on the advice of our experts and authorities, is a policy of failure. With regard to the SAS aid package, I will comment only on the fact that it is of course of Nordic interest to still have the airline SAS. At the start of the economy, it is extremely important to have an airline that is fully prepared to provide the necessary infrastructure for which SAS is responsible in the Nordic region. With regard to the expansion of Arlanda, it is a question of postponing the decision. We will have to come back to that in a later debate.
i-47b596c3990e222c-130	Mr President, I would like to We are actually debating the 2019 Nordic cooperation activities, but with the situation that we have, it is obvious and natural that the current situation becomes the main theme of the debate. I note that all of us, regardless of the party colour, take the seriousness and regret of the current situation in the border areas between and in relations with our Nordic neighbours in view of what has happened. The closed borders are a defeat for all of us, and, of course, above all for the government that has been responsible during the crisis. What we have seen is – it is difficult to turn a blind eye to it – that Sweden has not only higher but significantly higher death rates than the Nordic neighbours. What we have seen is a greater spread of infection in Sweden. At the same time, what we have seen is a smaller proportion of tests carried out than in our neighbouring countries. My question to the Government is, given that reality looks like this: Is it not reasonable and natural that our Nordic neighbours react in the way they do in this situation – are cautious, want to protect their own population and thus want to close the borders with Sweden?
i-47b596c3990e222c-134	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, reasonable that all governments and countries want to make every effort to have, over time, a fight against infection that protects life, health and the economy. We would have preferred the government to have seen a more flexible approach to the opening of the border. As I pointed out earlier today, there are major regional differences in the spread of infection in Sweden. We have pointed this out to our Nordic neighbours. I have full respect for the desire to do everything to keep the infection down in our neighbouring countries, but when we look at the differences that exist between Skåne and Copenhagen, in the Torne Valley and in several of our border regions towards Norway, we do not see that it is fully justified to have closed borders in those regions. That's what we've been working for. We have also worked together with our respective public health authorities to find regional solutions that can periodically or every two weeks evaluate how the disease situation changes in different regions and thus open up gradually, hopefully more and more. That is the tactic we have had in our dialogue. We have also achieved success in Finland, for example, where we wanted to close the borders completely from the outset, by saying that commuting is allowed. Now you also open up a little more at the Finnish border. This is a step-by-step exercise. I do not want to criticise our Nordic neighbours for wanting to maintain some of the closed borders, but we do not see that there have been regional motives for closing as fully as they do today.
i-47b596c3990e222c-138	Mr President, I would like to I note when listening to the representatives of the government, including Minister Hallberg, that it is about the same answer. These are roughly the same points as regards the regional spread of infection and the differences in the country. However, I do not note any self-criticism whatsoever on the part of the Swedish Government. Yesterday, the Prime Minister participated in SVT's Agenda and was asked about this. There was no degree of self-criticism – despite the high mortality rates, despite the fact that the spread of infection is greater than in the other Nordic countries and despite the fact that we have not carried out tests to the extent that other countries have done. Now that it is important to safeguard Nordic cooperation, I also think it is important to signal that Sweden, or the Swedish Government, has not acted fully in the right way in the current situation. In order to overcome the contradictions we see and the tensions that exist today, it would be important and important not only for the government to show some self-criticism in dealing with the crisis. My appeal to Anna Hallberg is that the government should make a somewhat more self-critical analysis of the situation we find ourselves in.
i-47b596c3990e222c-140	Mr President, I would like to Any death caused by covid-19 is, of course, a tragedy. What we could have done differently, what we have done that has been right, what we have done that could have been done better and so on is too early to say. There is also a great need, both when the crisis is over and even now when we set up a Commission, to evaluate this. Self-criticism is also about having an alternative and an understanding of what that alternative could have been. We do not have those facts on the table today. However, I would like to emphasise this very strongly: it is obviously a tragedy that we have so many deaths in Sweden. We now need to evaluate this. We have not been able to adequately protect our elderly. Whether it is an effect of the Corona strategy or of the elderly care we have in Sweden and many years of policy on elderly care, we also need to investigate. We need to remedy this. When it comes to self-criticism, I do not know if the word is right, but it is an extremely serious situation we in Sweden are in today. I believe that has emerged from all the representatives of the government. We shall also evaluate this. What should be done forward, what should be done in the next crisis, what could have been done better and so on, the Commission and our evaluation will demonstrate. I also think, as we heard earlier, that we need to compare ourselves with other countries and see what we could have done differently and what they could have done differently. This is an ongoing work that we must take forward with us.
i-47b596c3990e222c-144	I would remind all the debaters that this is a debate on the Nordic Council and not a general debate on the coronapndemin.
i-47b596c3990e222c-145	Mr President, I would like to I think we all share the vision and picture of the Nordic region being the most integrated region in the world. We also have a number of different requests on the table to get there today when we consider the follow-up motions available for the Government's letter and this annual Nordic debate. At the same time, however, we have a situation there, just as Mr Wallmark mentioned earlier, the anchoring and people's confidence that this should be a possible vision to achieve is shot in the sand by recent diametrically opposed strategies to deal with the Corona crisis. Beautiful words are no longer enough. I hear the Government mention that we have been affected differently, that the infection has entered retirement homes and so on. But it's not quite like that. After all, we have been affected to the extent that we have taken a series of measures that have not proved to be a correct and reasonable strategy in relation to our neighbours. It is the result of political decisions. We also have a situation in which the disease has been spread in retirement homes because of those very decisions. The general error, I would say, is that the Nordic heads of state, the prime ministers and the Ministers for Cooperation did not sit down at a very early stage and discuss common similar directives to their respective authorities and other institutions and actors in order to try to tackle it as jointly as possible. My question is: How does Minister Anna Hallberg want to coordinate the efforts to be made forward, and do they want to evaluate the efforts made in a Nordic Corona Commission? Are you prepared to launch one, and what do you want to see included?
i-47b596c3990e222c-150	Mr President, I would like to It has certainly not only been fine words, but has been hard work to resolve pragmatic issues gradually. It has been about allowing work commuting and allowing nurses and nurses to come to their workplaces on the other side of the border in Tornedalen. It has been about offering Finnish residents on the north side to also take part of IVA sites at Sunderby Hospital in Region Norrbotten and so on. It has been far from just fine words, and it has really been a pragmatic effort to do everything we can to open the borders: to demonstrate how low the infection is in Strömstad compared to Stockholm, for example, and to try to understand that we need to have an integrated Öresund region. We've come a little bit on our way, but we're far from satisfied. I agree with Mr Emilsson that we must be more coordinated between the Nordic countries in a crisis situation. It went very quickly, and there is understanding from all of us that we had to act quickly, but we should have shut down coordination and had a better dialogue initially. Even now that we open up, we'll be more coordinated. That is why I have taken the initiative that we Nordic co-operation ministers must at least have a clearer model for how to interact in a crisis. What is our responsibility as Nordic co-operation ministers? Do we have the same view of it? We need to have some form of code of conduct in terms of how we behave in a crisis, how we talk and have a dialogue and not only inform but also discuss our approach to the next crisis situation. The fact that at this point we would already have answers to what has gone right and what has gone wrong in the various countries' fight against infection is too early to deport, as I have said before. We need to evaluate this when the time is right.
i-47b596c3990e222c-154	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware that the border areas are doing very important and urgent daily – there I share the view of the Government – and I have also heard from actors in the border regions that this is the case. The only problem is that it is when the overall coordination of the state is not in place that you notice that the popular anchoring of Nordic cooperation is challenged in the foundations. I believe that this is serious in relation to the vision. The Government mentioned earlier that there are a number of priorities related to the vision that has now been set for Nordic cooperation, and there are a number of priorities that will give rise to decisions in the Nordic cooperation budget. I have previously asked the Government how prepared it is to adapt the map to reality when the terrain changes, and I would like to ask it today as well. These are priorities that were established before the Corona crisis came and before we had the enormous challenges we have today in health cooperation and for both research and the medical situation. We, from the Nordic Freedom Party – I have the confidence to chair the group – have pushed the Bureau to change resources to focus on increased efforts for Samnordic pandemic research, to be able to launch and implement parts of the crisis preparedness strategy more quickly than it had previously planned, and not least to review the ability and the ability to mobilise common preparedness resources, for example, to coordinate stocks and so on. I also know that the Social Democrats within the Nordic Council have expressed their support and have themselves also pursued a proposal similar to our own on precisely legal cooperation or a joint Council of Law that can coordinate legislation initially and proactively so that we do not end up in this difficult border-high-level ematics. Is the Government prepared to pursue this in the government and in cooperation?
i-47b596c3990e222c-159	Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress once again how important it is and that I agree with Mr Emilsson that we need to have a superior coordination of everything from state ministers to state ministers and co-operation ministers and so on. This is a lesson after this crisis, and we need to discuss together in the Nordic countries at different levels how to face this in a more effective way in the future. The vision is a priority. I also see that the path to vision has changed in response to the Corona crisis. For example, if we look at emergency preparedness, we see that it is an even more pressing issue. The situation has indeed made it clear that we need closer Nordic coordination in crises. We have initially redeployed the budget to steer more towards vision. We Nordic co-operation ministers have also discussed the need to take another part of the budget to redirect. We will discuss it at our meeting this June. I believe that it will also come up as a proposal at the meeting this autumn that we need to see if another part of the budget needs to be redeployed in order to deal with the crisis situation that we have had and to be able to be prepared to get out of the crisis and deal with this type of pandemic. It is absolutely right that the budget has been redeployed once for the vision, but we also need to look at whether we should make further changes in the budget due to the crisis and to increase joint crisis preparedness in the Nordic countries.
i-47b596c3990e222c-162	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to point out that it is very much appreciated that efforts are being made to clarify responsibilities in crisis management. That is something we have highlighted before. I believe that we will learn many lessons from this crisis. Norway opens and closes the borders depending on the number of infected. At the same time, we are increasing the number of samples here in Sweden, which will lead to our infection curve being extended. It becomes almost counterproductive to become more accurate in the detection of infection. I wonder a little about Norway's approach to these figures. One could draw it so far as to say that Norway's opening up borders can help countries actually reduce their contamination detection in order to speed up opening up and relations between countries. I wonder whether the Government has questioned this approach.
i-47b596c3990e222c-165	Mr President, I would like to Testing is now increasing significantly in Sweden. Then it is absolutely likely that we will find more infected. The superior is the control of infection. Let's go into a phase where it's possible to test. More and more regions also go out to test, track and isolate. To test, track and isolate becomes the strategy in the phase that Sweden is now in. It's superior. In the short term, this could have a negative impact on the possibilities of border opening. We see that the number of people admitted to IVA is going down. We also see that the infection is becoming more limited in Stockholm while at the same time it may increase in other regions. So we have to deal with this. What we have highlighted towards Norway and the other Nordic countries is that you should not just look at the number of infected people. It will be adjusted now as testing increases. You should also look at the number of hospitalisations, the number of deaths, and so on. There is also a backlog. More parameters are therefore needed to measure the situation in each region. That is also what our public health authority has proposed. So there are proposals on the table for the Nordic countries and their public health authorities. It is almost a daily dialogue on how to find fair regional images in order to open up our border regions. We're working on that now. But that should not prevent us from initiating extensive testing in Sweden. We must do this from the point of view of disease protection.
i-47b596c3990e222c-171	Mr President, I would like to Control of infection should of course be superior. I hope that this applies in all Nordic countries and that we are trying to find common ways of analysing the data available. I am thinking of what the Government mentioned earlier about care for the elderly. Have you had any discussions on, for example, differences in healthcare systems and care systems for the elderly between countries as regards the spread of infection? Previously, medical equipment stocks were also mentioned. Have you discussed how you can work to have a reasonably coordinated and balanced approach to these issues in the various countries, so that you can meet in a spirit of solidarity? It is almost as if we have closed the borders and stopped being in solidarity with each other, precisely because we are so different on these themes.
i-47b596c3990e222c-174	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that Lorena Delgado Varas raised this particular issue. When we look at how we can become more integrated in the Nordic region in the future and how we can solve the next crisis more jointly, we see that this is one of the most important issues. It is also about looking at what we have in common and what we can learn from each other and what has worked and what has not worked in each country. It is incredibly important to show solidarity in the area of health care. I mentioned earlier that we offered the Finns IVA places and so on. We have to do a lot more of that. Unfortunately, it was an exception in the Nordic countries. As the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, I definitely see this as an issue that I would like to put on the table in the Nordic cooperation model. It is a lot about solidarity and about life and health. We see it as an integrated solution and as an integrated position for the Nordic region, not country by country. Our citizens do not know the borders but are used to the fact that there are no limits in everyday life. Then there should also be no limits when we look at life and health and to stand up for each other in solidarity with those kinds of resources. It is certainly one of the most important issues for me as Minister of Cooperation to raise in the future.
i-47b596c3990e222c-177	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of commitment to Sweden being an active partner in Nordic cooperation; this shows not least today's debate. For us in Sweden, it is a matter of course that it should be easy to cross over to our Nordic neighbours. For me as a resident in Gothenburg, a day trip to Fredrikshamn in Denmark or a ski weekend in Norway is obvious. But that's not the case anymore. The closure of borders in recent months has shown that we cannot take it for granted at all. We have been in a very special situation for some time now, with a pandemic. Few of us could imagine it coming and let alone see its consequences. It is difficult for me, like many before me, not to mention it in the debate. It is a situation that has affected us in a variety of ways. It clearly shows how integrated we are in the Nordic countries. For the labour market, family relationships, the possibility of studying are not major concerns. Therefore, the countries' shared vision, that the Nordic region should be the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030, is a very good but also necessary ambition. With the clear vision and with strategic priorities, I am convinced that this can be achieved. But it's not done by itself. We must now also look at and learn lessons from the management of the Nordic countries in recent months, so that the problems that have arisen do not need to be repeated in the event of another major crisis. Mr President, I would like to The role of the Nordic Council is, among other things, to take initiatives when you see problems that can be solved at the Nordic level or where new opportunities can be exploited through Nordic cooperation. At the end of April, the Presidium of the Nordic Council sent a letter to the Prime Ministers of all the Nordic countries. We thanked each country's government for all the work it had done within the framework of the covid-19 pandemic. We also raised the importance of increased cooperation and raised a few points. Among other things, we want governments to implement the proposals of the Nordic Council's strategy on social security and preparedness, which we decided on in this House when Sweden hosted the 71st session. Among other things, it is about coordinating the purchase of health materials and medicines and making a Nordic risk analysis and contingency plan. We also mentioned the travel ban between the countries and the problems that have become reality for many, both private and companies located in our border regions. We raised the need to coordinate efforts to strengthen competitiveness and the economy together. However, we also raised the need for countries to stand up together and show solidarity with those countries that are severely affected. The letter concluded with the following sentences: The Nordic countries have repeatedly shown that we are strong when we stand together. We should continue to do so. Mr President, I would like to During the 2019 financial year, Sweden held the Presidency of the Nordic Council. As vice-chairman of the Swedish delegation, I would like to thank President Wallmark and the delegation for their good cooperation. I would also like to thank the secretariat and all the parliamentary staff who did an amazing job of preparation and implementation. It was a very successful session, thanks to all of you! The Presidency gave Sweden the opportunity to debate and raise issues that we as a country think are important to highlight in order to bring about change. The Swedish delegation's Presidency programme for 2019 highlighted the importance of democracy in the Nordic region and the broad popular cooperation. The programme highlighted four different areas: gender equality, digitalisation, border barriers and climate. Equal societies are often associated with the Nordic countries, and this has been a prerequisite for the success of the Nordic model. And certainly we have come a long way in comparison with many other countries, but there are still large differences in the Nordic countries as well. Discrimination against women in the Nordic countries is still taking place. All Nordic countries face similar challenges. Therefore, the Swedish delegation chose to raise the issue on several occasions during the year. Topics have included how to work to tackle wage differences, unequal power relations and exclusion and experiences after the call metoo in the cultural sector in the Nordic region. Climate change is one of today's major challenges. The Nordic Council has long been involved in environmental and climate issues. During the Stockholm session, a much appreciated topicality debate on the climate was held with Professor Michael Tjernström as guest speaker. We Social Democrats have during the year put forward several members' proposals in the Nordic Council, including on microplastics in the body. We want the Nordic countries to investigate the amount of microplastics that we get in us and the effects of this. We believe that with this basis, the Nordic countries can conduct joint actions to bring about a change. We have also tabled a proposal to reduce CO2 in new construction. In the Nordic countries, for example, we have a lot of wood. It can be used for construction, giving the building a mass function of CO2 storage. In this way, new buildings become a climate relief rather than a climate burden. Our countries are relatively small markets, but if we join forces, we can create new groundbreaking construction methods and materials that can become major export industries for our countries. Some other examples of proposals from the Social Democrats have been about e-reciplines in the Nordic countries, about suicide prevention in the Nordic countries, about a Nordic action plan for outdoor life and about strengthening the expertise of the Nordic media in investigative journalism. Mr President, I would like to I would like to address Minister Anna Hallberg and thank her for the great commitment she shows to the Nordic issues. I would also like to remind you of the priority issues that the Presidency of the Nordic Council has sent to the Minister for Coordination Mogen Jensen and which we want to highlight in the forthcoming action plans and the budget that the Council of Ministers is preparing. Several points have been raised in the debate, including the desire to see a Council of Ministers for Transport, the implementation of the strategy for social security, the promotion of democracy and knowledge of disinformation, the reduction of barriers to borders, increased cooperation in legislation and education and culture. I look forward to continued cooperation in order for us to jointly reach the vision that the Nordic region will be the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030.
i-47b596c3990e222c-194	Mr President, I would like to As a true Northist, I don't think I'm really impartial. However, in my opinion, the debate we now have – due to the current situation in a rather sparsely populated Chamber – is one of the most important things we have in Parliament throughout the year. Nordic cooperation concerns how we cooperate with the absolute closest and best friends we have in the world. They are our most important trading partners and our closest allies, whether they are security issues, trade policy, aid and development policy or how we solve climate issues. We talk about the work and links with the countries where Swedish citizens may have the most connections through work, family ties, language and a common history. There are few relationships that are so crucial and valuable to care for as relations between us here in Sweden and our closest neighbours in the Nordic region. Mr President, I would like to Not even a year ago, together with elected parliamentarians from all the Nordic countries and the autonomous areas of the Nordic Council meeting in this House, I attended. Among other things, we adopted calls for our respective governments to cooperate on a social security strategy and recommendations to our respective governments to work together to strengthen our common emergency preparedness in order to be prepared for situations where we go from normal and have a stronger response together. We now have to deal with a pandemic that affects all parts of our societies and affects the entire Nordic region. The closure of borders between our countries at this stage is not a sign of sufficient preparedness. It is not even a sign of good preparedness – quite the contrary. Rather, it is a far too clear example that we have not managed to deal with this crisis as well as we should. We have fallen back into too narrow national thinking rather than facing common threats and crises together. It is now of the utmost importance that the Swedish Government, together with the governments of the other Nordic countries, should act primarily to open up the borders between our countries and ensure that people can move as they usually do, so that we do not allow citizens to suffer from border barriers. But it is also of great importance that we act accordingly in the spirit that we expressed together in the strategy for social security in order to ensure that we face crises together in the future. Threats, Mr President, will be met through cooperation and trust between the Nordic countries. However, we are debating not only Nordic cooperation but also the Arctic. The effects of climate change in the Arctic are clear to both man and nature. They are a threat in themselves but also open up for increased exploitation of the northern regions. More needs to be done to protect the sensitive areas around the Arctic. We in the Center Party want the government to pursue the issue of establishing marine reserves to protect against exploitation that is at risk of harming and affecting both people and nature. I would therefore like to support the Center Party's reservation 3 in paragraph 2. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I see that my speaking time is already running out. But I don't want to leave you with the feeling that I'm just pissed off. Yeah, I'm pissed that borders are closed. I am angry that coordination from all the Nordic countries has been too bad. I am angry that the Nordic perspective all too often comes second and that we have a lack of understanding of how this affects people, including Swedish citizens, not least in border regions. But – my last sentence, Mr President – it is not with the feeling I want to leave you, but with the feeling that the reason I am pissed off is that I know how much we have to win; I hope we can hook our arm for a more closely integrated and prosperous Nordic region. ( TALMANN: It was of the longer sentences I have heard. I would also remind you that we should avoid words that may be perceived as profanity in this House's debates. )
i-47b596c3990e222c-202	Mr President, I would like to I have signed up for the debate as a member of the Nordic Council, but perhaps first and foremost as a border resident. When I pull up the blind in the morning I have Norway a stone's throw west. This is clearly present in mine and our everyday life sometimes other Värmland. But this applies to all border areas, not just my own. This applies to Finland. This applies to Åland. This applies to Denmark. I am pleased to hear that there is such high pressure in this House from left to right on border barriers issues. It was with some excitement, if not optimism, that I listened to the Norwegian Government press conference on Friday at two o'clock. Judgment fell – and the border is still closed. Unfortunately, on the basis of the parameters presented at the press conference, we will have a closed border for quite some time, it seems. This points to the government's diplomatic failure in this matter. Unfortunately, the party mate of the Government, who is the municipal councillor in Årjäng, is picking up my own municipality. He is now threatening to refer Norway to the European Court of Justice because he sees this as a barrier to trade. All this is certainly not welcomed in Norway, and it is not good for diplomacy. I have asked the Government a number of questions, both orally and in writing. On every occasion when the Government has responded, she has pointed out that there are positive and constructive talks with Norway. There has been tremendous optimism in the Government's response, which is positive. Unfortunately, it still has not borne fruit. Sweden has chosen to go its own way in pandemic management, and unfortunately we now have to continue to go alone. Nobody wants to play with us. Worse still, we see forms of budding nationalism. I'm very concerned about that. The economic consequences are billion-dollar losses. If the closure of the border is to last longer, there will be an incredible number of bankruptcies. Border regions have in the past been prosperous precisely because we have had border trade and opportunities for work. Now there is a great risk that this will change radically. Then there is another aspect which I tend to raise every time and which is at least as important as the economic aspect, namely the social aspect. This divides families and families and affects friendships. It also makes it extremely difficult for associations to live. It is a story of cross-border cooperation in our associations, with football teams and so on, which now no longer works. Those who experienced World War II and are still alive say that it was easier to cross the border legally during the war than it is today. As I said earlier, it seems that the closed borders will last for a long time on the basis of the parameters that were drawn up. The government must change diplomatic work drastically. Sometimes in cross-border cooperation, I would like Stockholm to be much closer to a rich border – then we might have got another sound in the bark about our cross-border barriers work. Some get to cross the border. We heard Lorena Delgado Varas mention that there have been problems at the Finnish border. We see exactly the same problem at the Norwegian border. The police say, "It's a forescription that you're very difficult to understand." Therefore, my final call to the Minister for Cooperation to be clear towards Norway so that the rules that apply to those who are allowed to cross the border are indeed clear. Today it is arbitrary. You need to see the right cop. Mr President, I would like to This may lead to a green Nordic region because fewer people travel. But it certainly does not lead to a competitive and sustainable Nordic region. To that is the road now very long. The Swedish government must certainly change up.
i-47b596c3990e222c-211	Mr President, I would like to Even before the Corona epidemic, questions were raised about foreign direct investment in companies that could affect security, public order and security-worthy companies. Regulation 2019/452 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 establishing a framework for the examination of foreign direct investment in the Union entered into force on 11 April 2019 and shall apply from 11 October 2020. On 22 August 2019, the Government appointed an investigation called the Direct Investment Investigation with the aim of making proposals on how a Swedish system for reviewing foreign direct investment in protected areas can be designed. The aim is to control the acquisition and strategic acquisition of companies based in Sweden whose activities or technology have a bearing on security or public order. Mr President, I would like to The study submitted an interim report in March 2020 proposing adaptations and additional provisions to the EU Regulation. By 2 November 2021, the investigator shall propose a Swedish system for reviewing foreign direct investment. The impact of the Corona epidemic on both the global and the Swedish economy has, among other things, led to what can be called a sale on companies. Like all sales, sales go fast. Therefore, it has become more urgent than before to deal with any problems that may arise with security-worthy companies risk being bought up by countries or companies in countries where these companies can be used to undermine Swedish security interests. Already today, there is legislation that means that if an investment is current in an activity that has a bearing on Sweden's security, the Swedish Security Act 2018:585. According to 2 Chapter. Section 9 of the Swedish Security Ordinance shall be notified to the Security Service or the Swedish Armed Forces by an operator who intends to transfer security-sensitive activities before such a procedure is initiated. The operator shall also inform the individual investor that the Privacy Act applies to the operations. However, the legislation does not allow for scrutiny by the foreign investor. Mr President, I would like to The Government decided on 22 August 2019 to give a special investigator, former Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court Sten Heckscher, the assignment to make proposals on how a Swedish system for reviewing foreign direct investment in areas worthy of protection can be designed, the so-called Direct Investment Investigation. The aim is to control the acquisition and strategic acquisition of companies based in Sweden whose activities or technology have a bearing on security or public order. The investigator shall, inter alia, analyse which foreign direct investment should be subject to rules of scrutiny, propose the conditions under which foreign direct investment may be prevented and the conditions for such investment which should be eligible, propose the existing authority responsible for examining foreign direct investment and propose the necessary adjustments and additional provisions for the application of the EU Regulation establishing a framework for the examination of foreign direct investment in the Union in Sweden and submit the necessary legislative proposals. Mr President, I would like to In the directive, the government points out that foreign investment is of great importance to Swedish society because Sweden is a small, open economy that depends on trade with other countries. At the same time, the Government notes that foreign direct investment can affect Sweden's security through the risks that may exist when foreign actors acquire activities in certain sectors, such as critical infrastructure and security sensitive data and technologies. On 6 March 2020, the Direct Investment Investigation Report submitted the Supplementary Provisions to the EU Regulation on Foreign Direct Investment to the Government. In the interim report, the study proposes the introduction of a new law and a new regulation with additional provisions to the EU regulation. It is also proposed that the inspection of strategic products, the ISP, be the contact point. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes, like the authors of the proposals, that the serious economic situation caused by the coronapandemine may lead to a low valuation of Swedish companies and intangible assets, which may increase interest in foreign direct investment. The committee takes note of the work under way in the Government Office and shares the view that the design of a complete system for reviewing direct investment is a complex issue which requires careful consideration. At the same time, the Committee, as well as the Committee on Defence and Industry, would like to stress that, in the light of the current economic crisis caused by the coronapandemine, work is time-critical and must be carried out urgently. Mr President, I would like to The Government should therefore urgently implement measures to enable the review of foreign investments in protected areas, including returning to the Riksdag with proposals for amendments to the Swedish Security Act regarding transfers of security sensitive activities. The government should also appoint as a matter of urgency the authority that should be the contact point under the EU Foreign Direct Investment Regulation 2019/ 452. With that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in its report UU18.
i-47b596c3990e222c-219	Mr President, I would like to Who's driving? The question, which is taken from a Disney movie with Långben, Musse Mouse and Kalle Anka, has recently been repeated, despite all seriousness here in Sweden. It is justified in many ways. I leave the question that basically the current government side and the budgetary parties answer the question. I can at least say that we Moderates have the map. It's the one we've used and used. In the area by area, it has become just as we Moderates have now indicated in the months of the pandemic, ranging from the need for mass testing to financial support for business. As recently as yesterday, EUR 100 million was announced to regional airports, just as we proposed and as other parties have until now rejected. Today it is a question of foreign investment in the tracks of the pandemic and of developing a regulatory framework that makes it difficult and hinders. It is a united committee that supports the proposal that is now being put forward. Mr President, I would like to Foreign investment in Swedish companies has been, and will be, important to create jobs and strengthen Swedish competitiveness in a global economy. It is essential to establish and underline the value and importance of a free and open economy. However, there may be an imminent risk that Swedish companies in great need of capital as a result of the Corona crisis may be subject to investments or acquisitions. Sweden still has no regulatory framework to review and ultimately stop foreign direct investment that could threaten national Swedish interests. It can be infrastructure, energy or companies with very high innovative capabilities. It may also be that state-owned companies in centrally managed countries want to buy technology companies at the forefront. This is something that we Moderates have repeatedly paid attention to. The truth is, Mr President, that other states have speeded up. There are now regulations in place. Sweden is one of the countries that currently lack mechanisms to read about what is happening in terms of buying-in and legal possibilities to make it difficult or prevent it. The issue was raised from the beginning of 2018 by the EU. The Moderates and other bourgeois parties have pushed, and the government has subsequently taken some steps. An investigation under the leadership of former Chief of Police Sten Heckschers was set up. There is reason to have high expectations of it, but a final result should not be presented until late next year, i.e. 2021. With referrals and other trials, there is reason to fear that a new regulatory framework based on this investigation will not be in place until after the 2022 elections. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe that it is urgent for consideration of Sweden's interests. It is precisely in order that the demand should be made for the government to have the opportunity, in the near future, to come back with proposals on government instructions and other measures in accordance with the direction we propose that the Moderates have raised the committee initiative that we are now debating and will decide on tomorrow. Some ideas have already been presented. ISP, the Inspection for Strategic Products, shall be made to the coordinator of the work. Legislative changes are to be presented. There has been talk of entry into force on 1 December. Mr President, I would like to I think that's on the last team. I therefore encourage the Government and the Government side to act swiftly and I am quite convinced that the Parliament in these coronatids does not in any way constitute an obstacle to this or contribute to delay. As late as 16 April at Question Time here in Parliament, I called on the Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, to contribute to the development of a regulatory framework. Unfortunately, I was then met by the shoulders. I quote from the Minutes, Mr President, this is a very complex area, and it is about carefully balancing the interest in protecting critical infrastructure and activities from harmful purchases. At the same time, there is an interest in maintaining Sweden's attractiveness for foreign investment. ..................................................... However, more has happened in recent weeks. Prime Minister Mikael Damberg and Anna Hallberg have announced through press meetings that things are going on. My call, therefore, is: Let us now speed up! Mr President, I would like to The fact that Chinese interests acquire shares and thus influence the previously used Norwegian aviation company in Sweden has attracted both attention and criticism, not least in social media. In social media, people have declared that other airlines will be used in the future. It is pointed out how China has thereby moved forward the positions. The strong reactions are interesting and say many things about the sharply deteriorating view of the People's Republic of China: from partners and valued investors to what is today seen as a political, economic and technological threat, in our country greatly accentuated by everything from the multiple outcomes of the Chinese ambassador from the residence in Stockholm to all ambiguities around the imprisoned Swedish publisher Gui Minhai. In the case of Norwegian, loans appear to be converted into shares. Formally it is BOC Aviation that stands behind, it in turn controlled by Sky Splendor Limited. It is in the hands of Bank of China Group Limited, which is then controlled by Central Huijin Investment Limited. So, in a few further steps, it can be sought back to the main owner in the form of the government and thus the Communist Party of the People's Republic of China – a red lacquer box in a red lacquer box. At the same time, it should be stressed that the PRC and Chinese investments should not be completely discarded. After all, there are areas and sectors of cooperation. But it is important to be clear. It is perhaps also not the most famous, large companies that are necessarily the most protective, nor what the government is now working with: that it should be limited to the classified. On the contrary, concerns should apply to small and medium-sized companies in strategic areas, such as artificial intelligence or semiconductor technology, where foreign power wants to gain undue influence. That is why we are taking this initiative. Sweden should be an open and dynamic economy that welcomes investments, but it is equally important that vital assets are not sold out and that inappropriate actors are not given decisive influence over the Swedish economy and politics. That is why the Moderates can now see that there is a massive majority to move the government to act and ensure that a regulatory framework for foreign direct investment is put in place. Mr President, I would like to I'm not exactly sure who's driving. But I know someone who has a map.
i-47b596c3990e222c-240	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that it is a pleasure to be here today. It is great fun that the Foreign Affairs Committee has agreed on the issue of a review function of foreign strategic acquisitions of Swedish companies. Of course, I would have liked this consensus to have come earlier, but better late than never. Unfortunately, the sudden need for this now shows that the regulatory framework we have had has not been enough. It makes it quite clear that our country is vulnerable, precisely because it has been naively thought that we would not end up in the situation that we are currently in. Mr President, I would like to In fact, the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly made a number of different proposals in this area. The fact that we have been early on with proposals for measures is precisely that what we see in no way is something new. Although it is becoming more evident every day, we have seen this before. It has simply been obvious. We, in particular, who work with foreign affairs on a daily basis, should have seen the threat from China a long time ago. For this reason, I am surprised that consensus has not been reached in the past. Mr President, I would like to I noticed that Mr Wallmark referred to Question Time on 16 April this year. I remember that Question Time, and I remember the question. In fact, two weeks earlier, on 1 April, we discussed such a proposal here in Parliament, a proposal that is definitely related to what we are discussing today. That proposal was rejected by all parties, including the Moderates. I am surprised that all Members who are today united simply and without hesitation only two and a half months ago were able to vote down a proposal to exclude companies with a well-documented connection to the intelligence services of non-democratic regimes from delivering critical infrastructure in Sweden. How can such a proposal be rejected? It's out of my mind. Mr President, I would like to Strong indications suggest, and have long spoken in favour, that China is intent on confrontation rather than peaceful interaction with the Western world. The Chinese strategy focuses on two things: information and infiltration. To succeed in the strategy, investments and strategic acquisitions are often used in a wide range of business areas. We have seen this for a long time. Large-scale and far-reaching strategic investments by Chinese players are currently a security risk. This has for many years been allowed to go unnoticed and without further security policy assessment from the Swedish side. Examples of Chinese economic policy interests vary from the acquisition of Volvo and medical research to interests of a more geopolitical nature in Swedish ports and telecommunications networks such as 5G. The ambitions of the Communist regime for increased power through economic and political influence over central social functions in our part of the world represent a real threat to our free society. The mere fact that Huawei, with well-documented links to the Chinese regime and the Chinese intelligence service, has been allowed to operate freely in Sweden is a scandal. Porting the company has been a matter of course in several other countries, which have seen a safety risk in allowing the company to deliver and thus also controlling socially critical infrastructure and information. Madam President, I would like Given that Sweden has suffered serious failures in the field of information security in the near future, it is all the more important that we urgently strengthen our ability to deal with security threats within the socially critical infrastructure. Sweden definitely needs more than just temporary solutions to this issue. The threats we see through acquisitions are not isolated to that very moment, and the damage that certain foreign acquisitions can cause to our society and our security is by no means temporary. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats have also advocated a more permanent regulatory framework for foreign acquisitions with a review function that is not only set up temporarily. We believe that such a regulatory framework and the associated audit functions should be put in place immediately. We believe that the time factor in this issue is central to the government's ability to deal with threats from countries such as China. Getting a regulatory framework and a new audit function to strengthen Sweden's ability to deal with such threats is our top priority. It is our duty to ensure adequate protection against obvious security threats. Having said that, Madam President, I would first of all like to thank the Moderates and Hans Wallmark for raising the issue again and for the fact that the committee has been able to agree this time. Once again, I would humbly ask the other parties to listen to us. Let us make this something permanent for the good of our free society.
i-47b596c3990e222c-252	Madam President, I would like Europe, our Europe, stands up for freedom, openness and democracy and stands up for free trade. It has served, and serves, us well. But it is clear that other states also want to take advantage of the opportunities; not least, we have seen it as China's growing economic and political muscle. We have seen countries that are subject to arms embargoes or other international sanctions develop a takeover strategy to circumvent our rules and buy into companies that produce what they want but cannot get. We have seen how, through intricate ownership relationships, they have created images of a venture capital company that appears to be like everyone else but hides things that are of strategic state military interest. It was against this background that on 19 March 2019 the EU highlighted the regulation that is the basis for what we are discussing today. It is a review framework and the regulation will apply from 11 October this year. Against this background, the Government commissioned Investigator Sten Heckscher to produce a proposal for a review of foreign direct investment. That investigation shall be reported no later than 2 November 2021. An interim report came on 6 March, pointing out some new proposals. But it was about the same time that covid-19 struck, Madam President. The pandemic has hit the whole world, including us and the European Union. It developed not only a health crisis but also an economic crisis for many of our companies. We have seen this not least in all the proposals that have been put on Parliament's table to try to bridge what has happened. But this has also created an opportunity. As always in crises, there are of course opportunities for those who are quick to buy into or buy up strategic companies. That is why, of course, all the factors highlighted in the regulation drawn up by the European Union must be taken into account. These include critical infrastructure, critical technologies, critical inputs, access to sensitive information, and media freedom and diversity. Madam President, I would like We welcome the initiative taken by the Moderates, and we also welcome the fact that the government is on its way with a Council of Law referral, if I understand it correctly, for a review work at the first stage. It is important to get the proposal in place as quickly as possible so as not to make it too easy for China, for example, to act. The Center Party wants to see that, with respect for the Freedom of Expression and the Freedom of the Press Act, we also have a review of economically vulnerable media houses. They could also be bought in at these Corona times. We have seen developments on the African continent, where many investments have been made to tell the Chinese history, the Chinese picture, which affects the view of China. As recently as April this year, we saw how Citic bought up the majority in the Czech Republic's largest media house, in order, of course, to influence the media image. Perhaps it was not entirely surprising that this happened in the Czech Republic. Madam President, I would like We have seen how the Chinese Embassy pays ads to influence and tell the right story, the right view, on the advertising site. That, if anything, says well what interest there is in running the story also in the media columns. It is not for nothing that the Chinese Communist Party has seen the media and the press as the eyes, ears, tongue and throat of the Communist Party—those who will tell the Chinese history in a proper and good way. It is against this background that we believe that there is reason to include the freedom and diversity of the media in the review model that will emerge in Sweden. It is not to prevent purchases, but to build some form of protection against such hostile takeovers. It is possible to see how one consciously works in the media war that China clearly stated that one wants to be a part of. That is why, Madam President, in a special opinion on this report, we have also highlighted the importance of the freedom and diversity of the media being caught up and not forgotten or put in a drawer. We have also pointed out the need to act urgently. We would like to see the full review mechanism in place by 1 January 2021, but it requires that the current investigation, which has the task of presenting its proposal by November 2021, tries to speed up, so that on 1 January 2022 there really is a full review mechanism in place also in Sweden. We hope that the work now being done will at least complicate the type of hostile takeover that we can see in other countries, not least from the Chinese state side. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-47b596c3990e222c-263	Madam President, I would like There is today a great deal of agreement on the Riksdag's decision to call on the Government to come up with proposals to allow scrutiny of foreign investments in areas of protection. This is important, because otherwise Sweden's safety risks being damaged. Today we have a broader and broader concept of security than we had in the 21st century, a concept of security that we recognise more from the days of the Cold War. Until 1992, the Act on Foreign Acquisitions of Swedish Companies, which limited the ability of foreign actors to acquire shares in Swedish limited liability companies and shares in Swedish partnerships or movements that were operated in Sweden. Since the law was repealed in 1992, there are very limited possibilities to influence or, where appropriate, prevent foreign direct investment in protected areas in Sweden. Apart from the end of the Cold War in 1992, it was also a moderate government. Membership of the EU, or the EC as it was then called, was around the corner. We had a Minister of Economic Affairs named Per Westerberg, who later became Speaker here in the Swedish Parliament. In the debate in 1992, Rolf L. Nilson of the Left Party said: I have presented some of the arguments in an exchange with Per Westerberg that make me think that this change in acquisition law is not urgent. There are, according to what I can see, no practical, concrete obstacles for foreigners to acquire real estate or Swedish companies. There is no requirement from the EC or under the EEA Agreement to make it urgent. This is why in a motion we have called for a rejection of the bill. ..................................................... That was what it sounded like in the 1992 debate. At the same time, there are major differences between today and the past. Today we live in a digitalised society where information is found in computers rather than on paper and where public ownership has been squeezed out by privatisations and outsourcing. This means that even in private companies there is sensitive knowledge for Sweden's security that we do not want to end up in the wrong hands. Much of this debate is about pointing out antagonists like Russia and China. But I think we should understand that the threat is wider than that. In a digitalized world, even non-state actors and states that lack direct geographical interests in Sweden may be interested in threatening us. Although the ISP now has a key role to play as a contact point and certainly also in future legislation, I would like to stress the importance of strong cooperation between authorities. It is through the transfer of knowledge between authorities that a broad security picture is clarified. I believe, for example, that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency can play a key role in the knowledge of how we prevent civil crises. Two years ago, when the current Swedish Security Act was drawn up, the IT scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency had erupted. It was clear to everyone what the price for outsourcing and privatisation could be: that sensitive information about all vehicles in Sweden ends up in the hands of people who have not been classified or even subject to Swedish rules. The public sector handles a large amount of information on a daily basis. Much of what is created and stored is both important and sensitive. Certain tasks are classified as worthy of protection, and some also concern national security. If information is lost, stolen, manipulated or disseminated to unauthorised persons, it can have serious consequences. Both individuals and the social structure require large amounts of information for everyday life to work. When short-term profits become a driving force for maintaining systems, the long-term nature of the system becomes an exception and the whole is lost. It is a risk in itself to outsource data to private actors dealing with security-sensitive information. Another subject I would like to touch on briefly is the ownership of land. The state is today a large landowner around Sweden. At the same time, there is often political will and confidence in reducing state land ownership. There are important security dimensions to be taken into account here. Our state ownership of land should in future be characterised by a greater security dimension than today. In 1992 the bourgeois-led government and the then bourgeois MPs were in a hurry to remove the Act on the Acquisition of Swedish Enterprises. Today, new legislation is urgently needed. It gives some perspective on the whole thing, I think. I support the proposal.
i-47b596c3990e222c-277	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the motion to be approved in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, UU18. We soon have a parliamentary year behind us that will go down in history. The Coronandem has completely reversed the conditions for politics and the national economy. This debate, one of the last before the summer break, is also linked to the pandemic and its effects. A functioning FDI audit system is crucial, not least in times of concern and economic downturn. In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, we saw the extent of foreign direct investment in undervalued and thus vulnerable European companies, not infrequently operating in strategically important infrastructure such as IT, electricity supply and ports. At that time it was about buying-in in the weakened economies of southern Europe, but other EU countries also saw the same phenomenon. The purchases were in most cases linked to China. The strategy is formulated in the Communist Party document Made in China in 2025. This meant, inter alia, that Chinese companies have access to substantial capital through state subsidies. Madam President, I would like The fact that Chinese acquisitions in Sweden are not made by chance is recognised in a survey from the Swedish Defence Research Institute, FOI, which was published in December last year. The survey shows that some fifty Swedish companies with hundreds of subsidiaries have acquired the Chinese state as the main shareholder in the 2000s. It is important to emphasise in this context that foreign investment in Sweden is fundamentally welcome. They are of great importance for businesses and for work and employment. It is also important to stress that the legislation we are debating today is not aimed at any individual country. At the same time, it is not possible to get away from reality: Sweden lacks an effective system for reviewing investments and acquisitions based on important strategic effects for society and based on effects on national security. Within the EU, the issue of foreign direct investment scrutiny has been on the agenda in recent years. As a result of the experience of the financial crisis and a direct consequence of the coronapndemine, this work has been speeded up. In April, the European Commission called on all Member States to use existing regulatory frameworks or to develop new national legislation on foreign direct investment. More than half of the EU Member States have so far heeded this. Madam President, I would like As a result of and thanks to the Moderates' proposal for committee initiatives, which the Christian Democrats wholeheartedly support, Sweden will now also have such legislation in place. According to the proposal, the Government will entrust the Strategic Product Inspection (ISP) with the task of building a review function and acting as a national contact point. At the same time, changes to the Security Act are being prepared so that authorities can decide on a ban on foreign purchases of classified activities. Unfortunately, over the years, the government has been slow on these important issues. As we have heard, the added Direct Investment Investigation will not be completed until November next year, 2021. The committee initiative is therefore necessary. It has already produced results and led the government to speed up its work. There is no doubt that the combination of depressed values in important companies and a weak currency makes Sweden vulnerable right now. Rapid action is therefore necessary to protect Swedish interests in the wake of the Corona crisis. Madam President, I would like According to the government, it is now important to find a balance between protecting Swedish interests and at the same time show that Sweden is an attractive nation to invest in. It is not a simple but important balance – as important as safeguarding free trade and new international trade agreements in the tracks of the pandemic and the closed borders. The Christian Democrats are and remain warm free trade friends, without, for the sake of silence, watching when our country's security is threatened by hostile takeovers and investments. With this, I would like to wish the Speakers and officials of Parliament and the colleagues of the Committee on Foreign Affairs a good summer and a restful holiday.
i-47b596c3990e222c-292	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse our reservation 3. Of course, we support our other reservations as well, but for time winning I choose to claim approval only to it. The Government's proposal on youth monitoring is now on Parliament's table. It is a product that is partly the result of the announcements made by the parliamentary majority. It's not unproblematic. One may object in principle or in practice to the proposals that have been submitted, but we still see that this is and will be an important complement. It shall also be evaluated– it is evaluable. The Government has taken the appeal of the majority of Parliament seriously and has sought to fill a gap in the penalty system. The gap consists, not least, of the fact that there is a shortage between quite far-reaching and rather mild procedures for those who have been convicted at a young age. It is not least a question of finding the opportunity for young people, despite perhaps quite serious crime, to remain in the positive networks that may be the way out for them. These can be activities such as sports and positive social contexts – they also exist – and the school they attend. Society sees, and shall look, harshly at the works that have been done. This is mainly aimed at persons who have committed quite or very serious crimes. The gap that exists should be filled with youth monitoring. We have done so with a rather cautious approach, but with a constructive result. There is a crime-political paradigm today where everything is black or white. I have talked many times in this speaker's chair about being either a lifestyle criteria or a model student – there is nothing in between. But the vast majority of youths are going somewhere. They are in a formative age and stand at different crossroads where it can be crucial if they meet the right person, mentor, educator or sports leader or the right love to be able to get on the right keel again. I have worked as a teacher for 25 years and seen this story take place in front of my eyes many times. In the vast majority of cases, it ends happily. We sometimes forget that the norm in the underprivileged million-programme areas is not that one is and remains and wants to be gang-critical. The vast majority of young people living in these areas want to enter the teacher's school or dream of becoming a police or carpenter or working in health care. This is the dream for the vast majority of people. Politicians love to paint it as they all want to become gangsters, ride around in nice cars and have jewelry, but even the young people who live there know the side with the stencil and the false premises. Those of us who are 60 remember that there always came some old addict – in West Sweden they were always amfeta minister – and told us that early consequences would have saved them from drugs or crime. I can't say they were wrong. It's about the same stories you hear from lifestyle criteria to this day, that it's a fact that if they had had a clear and clear consequence at an early age, their destructive behaviour might have been broken. And perhaps it is such a measure that we have at Parliament's table today. Measures such as youth prisons, which they had and which were a school of crime, as it was so beautifully called and as it actually was, may not be today's penitentiary. We have a wide toolbox with measures dealing with care. There are treatment programs that are certified and all that we have talked about so many times. It is not the same time as in the 60s, 70s, 80s and 90s when it comes to caring for young people. This has been achieved by seeing a decline in juvenile delinquency. Ten years in a row we have seen such a development, and in her investigation Petra Lundh also shows this. What we need to take with us in this House is to understand that it is not a reality that applies but that there are many different parallel systems. As far as our reservation is concerned, we have a main argument, which I would like to state in conclusion. It is about that we want it to be weekend separation – lock-in in the home on weekends and evenings. The reason for this is to make the assessment that it is then that gang criminals are most criminally active. It is also when other youths fall into crime, not least because of alcohol and drugs. In addition, if you have weekend separation, all week you have completely different requirements on how parents and the home should look for it to work. This means that it can be counterproductive and that perhaps not many young people will be penalised if you go all the way, as some of the proposals are. We will have to take this step and evaluate it, and then we will see if the next step will be taken a little further ahead.
i-47b596c3990e222c-304	Madam President, I would like It was about time. It was really about time that the government finally came up with its bill on a new youth sanction, youth monitoring. The Swedish Parliament has announced on several occasions that the government will return with proposals for a new youth sanction. The first announcement was decided in spring 2015, i.e. five years ago. You can blame the government too much, but not for being quick! We can also note that the second government party, the Green Party, is not even here when we are discussing this important issue, juvenile delinquency. Youth delinquency has become very serious in recent years. Young people under 18 commit aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, murder, and manslaughter. A while ago, I was on a study visit to the Juvenile Prosecutor's Office in Gothenburg. There it was said that gang killers nowadays are just as often under 18 years of age as over 18 years of age. It's just terrible! What is also terrible is all robberies against young people. The robbers are often under 18 years of age. Robbery against young people has increased dramatically. Since 2014, they have increased by 125 per cent. Last year, 2019, nearly 2,500 young people were robbed. One might well wonder how many of these victims had not been robbed if the government had not taken five years to present this bill. It should also be borne in mind that the number of darkness is quite large. Many young people do not dare to report, for they are simply afraid of revenge. The robberies have become much rougher, often with knife cutting and degrading features. Something has really gone wrong in society with all these rough robberies against young people. There are far too lax consequences when a youth commits crimes. Young people can commit serious crimes, be arrested by police and just a few hours later be out on the town for coffee with their friends. It's sending the wrong signals. Youth police say that suspected young robbers are released before they have even been interrogated, even though they have committed relatively serious crimes. They are released, and then they can go and contact both plaintiffs and witnesses and scare them into silence. As a result, the investigation is closed and the victim has no redress. Many young victims feel very bad for a long time after the crime. You can imagine the fear of a young person having a knife to his throat and being kicked down by several people. What a terror this must be for a young person! Society is failing the victims of crime. How are they supposed to trust society when they find out that the robber is out on the streets just a few hours after the arrest? How are they going to go out? It is rare for young robbers to be arrested and even more rare to be arrested. Many juvenile police officers testify that arresting a young robber sometimes seems almost pointless. This report, as I mentioned earlier, deals with youth monitoring. It is a sanction that should be used when juvenile care and youth services are too mild and closed juvenile care is too strict. The penal services shall be responsible for this sentence, which shall last between six and twelve months. It should be used mainly for those under 18 years of age, but it can also be used for offenders up to 21 years of age if there are special reasons. The penalty shall be chosen when there is a penalty value between six and twelve months in prison and in serious relapse situations. An individual enforcement plan shall be drawn up by the Prison Service together with the sentenced person. Cooperation with the Social Security Board and other relevant authorities shall be ensured. Madam President, I would like The enforcement plan shall provide for the frequency of the sentenced person's meeting with the Prison Service and for restrictions on freedom of movement. The sentenced person shall be prohibited from using drugs and alcohol and other dangerous goods. Rules may apply to where the sentenced person should live, how he should run the school, what he should do in his spare time, what substance abuse treatment he should participate in or other appropriate measures. The implementation plan shall be regularly followed up and amended if necessary. The number of meetings can be reduced or increased depending on the outcome. According to the government's proposal, the sentenced person should be prohibited from staying outside the home during weekend nights and nights from Friday evening to Monday morning. If the dwelling is unfit, another location may be considered. The prohibition may also be replaced by a prohibition to leave a specific area or an obligation to be in a designated place. A review of restrictions on freedom of movement shall take place during the period of enforcement. Restrictions may be increased or reduced depending on the outcome. The sentenced person must wear a anklet so that the Prison Service can check where the sentenced person is. The Government's proposal contains various measures that can be taken if the sentenced person misbehaves. The measures may be to increase the number of meetings or to have a police call to the meetings. If mismanagement is considered to be material, the penalty can be eliminated and a new penalty imposed. As I said, it has taken the government a long time to present this bill, but it is good that it has finally arrived. However, there are shortcomings. One shortcoming is that this should apply only to weekends. A youth who has entered the course of crime does not care very much about days of the week. There are also holidays that occur during the weeks, such as waltz castles. Then the risk of alcohol and drugs is high, and then it is easy to commit crimes or misbehave in some other way. It is therefore important that youth monitoring can also be carried out for days other than just weekends. Madam President, I would like It is very good that we will now also decide on two announcements that strengthen the Government's proposal. The first announcement concerns the possibility of youth monitoring for days other than weekends and also for more days if necessary. In the beginning there may be a need to have home arrest every day of the week, which can then be scaled down. But, of course, it should always be proportionate to the crime. The second announcement concerns mismanagement. The government's proposal for measures in the event of mismanagement is simply too weak. You say a little aja baja but not so much more. That is why it is a very good thing that we are being given an announcement in which the measures are much clearer and simply tougher. We often talk about clear consequences, but unlike the government we want to not only talk but also implement it. The announcement represents a significant tightening-up. If, for example, the sentenced person leaves the home and thus violates the regulation, it should in principle always result in a report to the prosecutor, who should then consider whether the sentence should be removed and replaced by a sharper sentence. If the sentenced person misbehaves several times, even if it is of a less serious nature, it shall always result in the remedy being removed and replaced by a more interventional penalty. It is very important that society clearly indicates that a judgment is a judgment and should be followed. Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to do a little more. For example, we believe that confidentiality legislation should be amended so that the general rule is that all relevant information can be shared in order to prevent and investigate juvenile delinquency. We also want more young people to be taken care of according to LVU. We also want new opportunities to be created to order curfews during evenings and weekends and to be able to be monitored with a anklet. The aim, of course, is simply to slow down crime as early as possible. What has happened so far has certainly not worked when juvenile delinquency has become so severe. Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 7.
i-47b596c3990e222c-330	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that children are allowed to be children, that young people are allowed to be young and that the adult world never sees children as anything but children. It is children's right not to be judged a or get the same expectations as adults get. This applies even if children commit crimes. There are many reasons why children and young people should not be punished as adults. Just because you are capable of doing certain things, it is not self-evident that you are prepared for the consequences of your actions. That's what separates children from adults. Anyone who has ever met a child can see that there is a great capacity in the child but often very little thoughtfulness. This is something that persists in the early stages of age, even when young people in other cases are seen as adults and adults. Here in Parliament, we should not legislate on the basis of certain individual events that politicians in this House can bring up – there may be different examples of why crimes should be punished here or there. Laws must be made with thoughtfulness. Legislation should be evaluated, and it should not consist of emotional calls for change in society. Punishment and punishment are not something your gut should decide. Sweden's sanctioning system for young offenders is designed on the basis that children and young people who have committed crimes should primarily be kept outside the prison system and instead be the subject of interventions within the social services. This is why the content of the various youth sanctions is aimed at countering risk factors that can lead to continued crime and at countering the recurrence of crime. Several studies conclude that there is a need for more youth sanctions at different levels of intervention, as the existing youth sanctions do not constitute a comprehensive system. This means that there are sometimes no suitable sanctions for young offenders, which means that the penalty can often be set at a penalty that is more suitable for an adult, such as probation and conditional sentence or fine. The same studies state that there is neither empirical support nor experience-based support for stricter sanctions for young offenders. Madam President, I would like In particular, the Left Party wishes to emphasise the importance of ensuring that the special status of children within the sanctioning system is not watered down. We do, however, see the need for new youth sanctions, and we are no stranger to the introduction of a number of those that can complement the existing ones. The government proposes to introduce a new sanction for young offenders: youth monitoring. This means that young people, who are often 15 – 17 years of age, are not allowed to leave their home during weekend evenings and weekend nights, which is checked by electronic means. Compared to closed youth care, the proposed sanction for youth monitoring appears to be a much better option, provided that the young person has a suitable and stable living environment. If young people are to be locked in their homes, it must be a stable and safe home. In cases where there are obvious shortcomings in the home environment due to abuse, mental illness, relationship problems or criminality in the family, it may be very inappropriate to ban the sentenced person from leaving the home during part of the weekend. According to the Left Party, it is extremely important that the living environment and family are considered functional and suitable for the young to be a realistic alternative for youth monitoring. However, it is not clear in the Government's proposal how the assessment of homes should be carried out or how the geographical locations should be defined. Therefore, the proposal on youth monitoring should be implemented as a pilot activity, by means of a limited-term law to be evaluated before it may become permanent. The government should therefore implement the new penalty for youth surveillance as a limited-term law, which will be valid for three years and then evaluated. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-47b596c3990e222c-340	Madam President, I would like One of the most important tasks of society is to contribute to the positive growth and development of children and young people. The most basic form of community is the family, where people meet across generational boundaries in love and trust. This insight is a cornerstone for us in the Christian Democrats. Safe and well-functioning families are simply a must for society as a whole to function and grow strong. Preventing crime and early detection of children and young people at risk of crime is of paramount importance. In order to achieve this, a comprehensive policy is needed for children and young people. We need a supportive family policy, a good school, an investment in young people's growing-up environment, a thorough crime prevention work and an offensive criminal policy. Madam President, I would like Today's debate concerns one of the pieces of the puzzle that society must lay in order for young people who have fallen on the wrong path in life to be guided so that they find their way. Over the years, starting in 2015, Parliament has repeatedly called for a new sanction for young offenders through various forms of announcements. The last time Parliament dealt with motions on youth sanctions was actually this spring, 2020. Again, the need for new forms of sanctions for young people was expressed. It is good and indeed time for the government to present in today's bill the new penalty for young offenders in the Criminal Code: youth surveillance. It provides an alternative in the sanctions system for young people. It closes the gap that exists today because in some cases there is no suitable and credible alternative to sanctions. Youth monitoring is a sanction to be applied in cases where neither juvenile care nor youth services are a sufficiently intrusive criminal response in view of the crime that has been committed and the previous criminality of the young person. It is the right to determine the duration of youth monitoring, i.e. between six months and a maximum of one year. We Christian Democrats are in favour of the bill, as it gives the justice system another tool to get young people to break a negative and criminal trend. But we also see the need for changes that need to be made in order for the penalty to be even more effective. That is why we support the two declarations proposed by the committee. Madam President, I would like The first announcement concerns youth monitoring as a sanction. The restriction proposed is that a holiday home stay should only cover evenings and nights against Saturday, Sunday and Monday. As we see it, this does not cover the need for monitoring and control that may exist in some cases. For a young person who has begun to live outside the rules of society, the importance of the day of the week is reduced. In order to break a criminal trend and lifestyle, there may initially be a need for home arrest more nights during the week than those listed – this can then be scaled down. In some cases there may also need to be room for greater flexibility in evenings and nights. For example, it can apply to nights and evenings around walborgsmässafton, midsummer and so on. We therefore support the announcement that there should be a greater possibility of home arrest for more days of the week than stated in the bill. There is also an announcement of mismanagement. The penalty for youth surveillance is based on relative freedom under responsibility. The individual should actively step back to law-abiding while society exercises control over the risks of relative freedom. It is questionable, then, whether the reactions prescribed in the case of mismanagement are sufficiently powerful. We believe that the requirement of the bill, that the sentenced person should have substantially failed to comply with the rules laid down for the removal of youth surveillance, is too high. We therefore support the announcement that recurrent mismanagement, even of a less serious nature, should in most cases result in the sanction being evaluated and perhaps eliminated and replaced by a more interventional penalty. Madam President, I would like We have also supported a number of reservations. This applies, among other things, to the role of social services in ensuring that youth monitoring is an effective sanction. Social services have an important knowledge of young people's personal circumstances, and this will have an impact on the content of the implementation plan. We believe, like several consultation bodies, that it is important that the role of social services within the framework of youth monitoring is clear, but also that the role of social services is broadened. Priority should be given to the prevention of crime by social services. It is a good thing that the government is now proposing certain rules on the confidentiality of persons sentenced to youth surveillance, but we see that the proposed provisions are not sufficient. We believe that the legislation on confidentiality needs to be further amended so that the rules on secrecy also include the Police Authority and that they cover not only the young offenders convicted of youth surveillance but also young people who are deemed to be on their way to crime. Finally, I would also like to mention that an important crime prevention effort is to catch young people who are at risk of being involved in crime at an early stage. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare considers that social intervention groups have had an effect in the sense that individuals who have felt betrayed by society have been caught up and offered support. Social Action Groups need to give priority to work in order to identify young people at an early stage who are at risk of becoming involved in the wrong associations. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we support the announcements made in committee management and also the reservations that we Christian Democrats are making in this report, but I choose only to ask for the approval of reservation 6. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the officials of this House and my colleagues in the Committee on Justice, whether they are sitting here or in front of the computer at home, a really nice and pleasant summer!
i-47b596c3990e222c-355	Madam President, I would like Politics is at its best when it is preceded by a rich debate in which all arguments can be tested. The debate is at its best when many participate, becomes at its most interesting when it draws its power out of a lot of heart and leads to the best result when the heart's approaches get past the brain and filtered through the breaks of the accumulated knowledge. Legislation is the executive body of politics and must, as far as possible, be formulated in such a way as to reflect the will of representative democracy. As far as gang crime is concerned, the debate has for a long time been both voluminous and emotional. We are appalled and alarmed by developments and are appalled at how younger and younger people are committing increasingly serious crimes in gang contexts. In this debate, I would like to thank those who actually raised the issue of gang crime not only to be voluminous in quantity but also to be more qualitative. In fact, I see a specific moment that was a turning point and caused the whole legal policy complex to shift its focus. It was when Moderate Party leader Ulf Kristersson in his late summer speech last year extended a hand to the government and suggested cross-block discussions on gang crime. Thank you also to the government, which could have ignored the outstretched hand and continued on its way. But it didn't. Prime ministers Mikael Damberg and Morgan Johansson invited me to talk, and although I personally had hoped that we could have continued further and drilled even deeper into the details, we got a long way on our way. From the talks came a program with 34 points that together will actually be able to make a difference. Is this program perfect? I don't think so. Is the program enough? Certainly not. But it was a fresh start for a more reasoning legal policy that is of higher quality and draws its power from wisdom rather than from what is spread most quickly on Twitter. One of the 34 points is a new measure to prevent a young person's path into a vicious circle of heavy crime. Youth monitoring is what we call it, and it is a sanction that can be used when youth services or care services are not deemed to be sufficient intervention to break the pattern that puts the convicted person at great risk of developing a criminal lifestyle. The step over this is closed juvenile care, and perhaps in most cases it can and should be the consequence if youth surveillance is mismanaged. Madam President, I would like Clarity is the key word in several ways. On the one hand, the law should be so clear that it becomes predictable in terms of consequences if you do not comply with the rules, and on the other hand a young person deserves to slip the clarity from the adult world that is required to know and understand the limits of society's patience. Is this, then, harder? Perhaps in a way, if we mean more and more intervention measures. At the same time, however, it is much less intervention if the alternative is institutionalised care. With youth surveillance, the condemned person can live parts of his normal life that are positive and edifying, while the destructive and risky moments can be set aside. If you look further and think of the hard criminal world, every chance for a young person to avoid ending up there is a ticket to a very much softer life. Madam President, I would like When the bill was presented, there were a couple of things that we in the Center Party felt we needed to develop. One was that the penalty should be extended to cover days other than weekends. For those who are going out alongside society, the days of the week do not have the same meaning. There may also be increased risks associated with holidays or holidays that should be covered. The other thing, as I was a little bit on earlier, was the importance of clarity. What happens if the one sentenced to youth surveillance misbehaves? The consequences must be clearly spelled out. It is really a question of good legislation, and it is perhaps particularly important in the field of criminal law. Even the Moderates were in the same vein, and since we are used to cooperating constructively in the Committee on Justice, it was not very difficult to put us together. When this had happened, we were pleased to note that more people shared our view and agreed with what was now to be the committee's proposal for a decision. Having said that, this is a good legislative product, and with the announcements we now have a majority in favour, youth monitoring will be even better. The instruments that society has at its disposal to help young people get out of destructive life patterns must become more and more accurate. The report does just that, and I would therefore like to support it. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish my colleagues in the Committee on Justice, the Committee Office, the Presidents and the Chambers a really nice summer!
i-47b596c3990e222c-368	Madam President, I would like In no other country in Western Europe are so many young people involved in shootings and killings. The Regional Police Commissioner of Uppsala County has also testified that there have never been so many minors involved in shootings and running serious criminal cases. In fact, the number of children suspected of violent crime and robbery has more than doubled in Sweden over the past five years. Some have turned out to be as young as 11 years old. So we are talking about serious violent crime, something that was relatively unknown to children just a few decades ago. The involvement of children in heavy gang crime at this level is relatively new for Sweden. These are, above all, criminal gangs that exploit children and young people, knowing that the consequences are largely absent if they are caught because of their old age. The young criminals who commit these crimes have often begun their criminal career long before they reach the age of 15, and since Swedish legislation is not adapted to the reality we see in the new Sweden, the consequences of their actions are usually absent. What signals does this send when children and young people can commit serious violent crimes without society setting their foot down seriously? Madam President, I would like Young offenders have long been treated differently in criminal matters. This is particularly true for the age group 15 to 17, but also for offenders aged 18 to 20. Special treatment is given both in terms of the penalty and in terms of the choice of the penalty. One reason for this, as is usually pointed out, is that young people are not considered to have reached such maturity and responsibility that they should be treated as adults. They are also considered to be particularly sensitive to the consequences that criminal proceedings would have for them. The Swedish Democrats believe, however, that a person who is of age should take full responsibility for his or her criminal actions. If we cannot save a serious criminal 18-year-old, we can at least try to prevent the person from continuing to commit serious crimes and inflict suffering on other people. For children in exclusion areas, there is also one less person who can use them to run criminal affairs, to whom they look and who encourages them to end up in a criminal life-style. So it is not as attractive for those under the age of 18 to embark on a criminal career. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that youth monitoring should only be possible for those who are underage, i.e. under 18 years of age. Madam President, I would like The proposed youth monitoring as a punishment is well placed to complement existing sanctions for young offenders. However, the limitation that a home arrest may include only evenings and nights against Saturday, Sunday and Monday does not cover the need for surveillance and control that may in many cases be needed. For a young person who has begun to live out of bounds, the days of the week are rarely of great importance. If the person has been guilty of crime and is on a slide, there may be a need for home arrest every night of the week to get away from destructive living. In order to break a destructive pattern, home arrest needs to be adapted to the individual and the crime committed by the young person. It is therefore important to take into account several parameters. That is why we support the announcement to extend the scope of home arrest on weekends. The Swedish democrats also believe that there is a need to have control of the person after the sentence is served, so that the youngster does not fall back into crime or start hanging in bad circles and to make sure that the kid goes to school, is not out running at night and weekends and so on. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-FJspeLedAgTt1DaKqYeGZd	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Culture will now debate report 12, which deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the free admission reform for 18 state museums that the government introduced in 2016. In fact, I would like to begin by paying tribute to the Swedish National Audit Office, which makes many honourable and important reviews of our work and that of the entire state. In the past, however, little attention has been paid to the cultural field. This has been done in a number of different reviews of both the government's governance of museums supported by various kinds and the security work of our museums and cultural collections during crisis or war. It's very important. It is our cultural heritage that we are talking about, and now this free entry reform has also been reviewed by the Swedish National Audit Office. The reform was implemented on 1 February 2016. But such a reform was also carried out by a former Social Democratic government in 2005/06. It was then abolished by the Alliance government. The Moderates were then opposed to the reform and they are today as well. I will explain the main aspects of this. Madam President, I would like I shall begin with the matter in question with regard to the current examination. It is perhaps not the main objective of the reform that has been reviewed, that is to say that the visitor numbers should increase and that, above all, groups other than those who normally visit our state museums and our collections should be reached. That is a legitimate purpose for many reasons. Several reviews carried out, for example by the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, have shown that the visitor numbers have increased and that other groups have also been reached. The main objection to the Moderate reform is precisely that it covers only 18 state museums. Madam President, we have about 1,600 museums throughout the country. Of these 18 state museums, 14 are located in Stockholm. So there will be a reform aimed to a large extent at our capital city and surrounding area. It goes in the opposite direction to what we really praise here from the speaker's seat in all possible contexts, namely a living countryside and the whole country to live. And in this case, it is SEK 90 million that is concentrated in only the Stockholm area when there is a great need now during Coronatids but above all when Sweden's museums turned to the government, to the Minister for Culture and to us in the Committee on Culture about the urgent need for increased resources for regional museums, local museums and also private museums because they see a reduced number of visitors. Madam President, I would like The reform itself is wrong in terms of the principle of equality, the importance of our museums' educational missions, cultural heritage and, above all, the transfer of knowledge to new generations about the different cultural expressions of the past, how we lived in the past and the objects that carry these stories on. Madam President, I would like The report leads to some recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office that the government has responded to. The government agrees in part with how this reform has been implemented and that it should not affect the overall activities of museums. The government says that it agrees in part with the need for clarification of governance. And it does not at all share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that this reform has affected the regular museum activities. It is very inconvenient with what was said to us in the Committee on Culture when we visited the National Museum, which made it very clear that this reform costs more than it tastes, that is to say that we must spend money on this free admission reform because we cannot finance other activities. It doesn't make any sense. In our opinion, if the government is to continue this reform, it needs to take on board what the Swedish National Audit Office is putting forward in this part. But we from the Moderates think that this $90 million would do much more good if they were distributed throughout the country. 1 percent of this is SEK 90 000. It would do wonders for Borderfors Bruk's ax museum. They have 2,000 different axes in their collections, from the Stone Age to today. It's a fantastic story about a profession and all its tools. Another example is Ájtte, our Sami museum up in Jokkmokk. Karlshamns Museum in my municipality Karlshamn also has fantastic collections that not only tells about the spirits king L O Smith but also about Alice Tegnér, who was born in Karlshamn, and about the emigrators. Karlshamn was one of the exit gates. And all of us who have been in contact with the military may know that it was in Karlshamn that the blue and white sheets were woven and made. I think it's amazing to know. Madam President, I would like We do not share the view that this free admission reform is doing the good it should. The review of the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has previously shown that it is not only Stockholm-centred but has also increased visitor numbers. The visitors have largely consisted of tourists who have visited Stockholm and other experienced museum visitors. If we are serious about increasing the knowledge of our cultural heritage and the collections of museums in other groups in society, these 90 million will benefit the whole country and not just the capital. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-3hyiSckNwH56cTpWfNfs67	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5 under paragraph 3. The whole of Sweden will live. City and country, hand in hand. City and country need each other. Many are also worded about the principle and the benefits of the whole of Sweden living. After the unholy alliance of the January parties, one might have hoped that at least the Center Party had a glimpse of alliance left to the country outside Stockholm and the thesis of rural welfare and woe. Well, despite the footprints of the clover in government formation, the urban red-green recipe for Swedish museum system is stable on the table. The free admission reform is primarily a Stockholm reform, not a vitamin injection into the Swedish museum system. During the Corona crisis, we have seen how resources for urgent needs in the sphere of cultural heritage, in particular, have shone with their absence, while millions of rains have been distributed elsewhere. Here as well as with the free admission reform, a few actors in the royal capital have received support while support for the country's county museums and small and large cultural historical attractions – regardless of the principals – in our vast country shone with their absence. The government's aim is thus still locked to the capital. This narrow focus has been our main criticism of the free admission reform we are debating today in the light of the Swedish National Audit Office's letter. We agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticisms. The government's vision of introducing new groups to the museums is fundamentally good, and I believe that all cultural heritage ambassadors can agree on this. At the same time, it is clear that the vision is not accompanied by either clear objectives and objectives or real political and economic will. This is where we split up. It is important for the legitimacy of the free admission reform that we know whether it has achieved the stated objectives and objectives. In the discussion on the use of funds, it is important to ask whether resources could have made more use of them in other ways, for example by supporting the county museums. We Swedish democrats propose annually a billion dollar of cultural heritage, which the government parties once again reject. Today, it would have made many actors much better equipped. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has concluded that the purpose and objective of the reform are unclear. The Government responds by clarifying that the aim of the reform is to increase the opportunities for everyone to take part in the activities of museums. It's a start. The government should, we believe, clearly present different scenarios with balances and priorities that may need to be made. There is a risk that efforts to reach everyone will result in museums not becoming relevant to anyone. A situation where museums are trying hard to include elements in the exhibitions that are not based on the collections must not take over because the collections themselves do not attract sufficiently wide groups. We believe that these balances have not been clarified or clearly argued by the government so that it could have tried the opposite. We therefore state that the government should more clearly account for different balances that may occur due to the free admission reform. I am now moving from proactive to reactive. A non-functioning system of follow-up to the free admission reform gives an uncertainty as to which groups it reaches. Although the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has given museums certain criteria they should measure from outside, such as gender, age and geographical location, clearer requirements from the government can provide better statistics. It would also make it easier for museums to justify their budget demands on the basis of the government's requirements. We note that the issue of the reform only benefiting urban residents is not dealt with in the review. There is a need for clearer statistics, so that it is possible to form an idea of whether the free admission reform actually leads to more frequent visits by those who are not resident in the Stockholm region to the state museums covered by this particular reform. I would say that some have pointed to the opposite so far, while some have pointed in that direction, as Mrs Engblom mentioned earlier. In our view, there is reason to consider how automated visitor surveying systems could be designed on a larger scale if we consider that we want to collect these statistics in a database. The forms of such a system should be reviewed by means of a global analysis and by gathering good examples that take into account both personal integrity and the possibility of accurate data. Without reliable statistics, we cannot for sure know to what extent new groups are being reached. Automated systems can also facilitate the flow of information from museums to other authorities, which – as has been pointed out – has been partly lacking. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that the collection of visitor statistics does not go beyond the other and primary tasks of museums. It must not be an administrative and bureaucratic burden that takes focus from its core business. It is unfortunately a shortcoming, Madam President, that the National Audit Office has not looked at the impact of the reform on the power relationship between museums and the state. Higher grant funding with earmarked resources leads to increased reliance on the state. The government should clarify the balance between the freedom of museums and the responsibility of the state for the responsible use of tax funds. This is important for the transparency of both the work of museums and government. Museums are memory banks for our collective memory and as institutions are a whole with several important core values. The aim that as many people as possible should be able to take part of the museum's accumulated knowledge must not go beyond the quality of the museum's activities, the scientific basis for the information communicated or, for that matter, the management of the collections. It also concerns the clarification of objectives in relation to the other missions of museums and in relation to other values. Unconsidered balances can result in cultural heritage not being properly managed here and now and for future generations. These are fundamental balances in order to ensure that future generations can have the same opportunity to learn about what we have today. Swedish cultural heritage must be protected, nurtured and shown. It is especially important to stand up for today, when historical remains are given meanings that they can neither respond to nor problematise. The museums should be given guidance on how to act in relation to the mission to acquire, preserve, mediate and exhibit, and promote research and research opportunities. We therefore want the government to give a clearer account of the balance – and I will come back to it – between the breadth, relevance and tip of the museums' activities and in relation to the free admission reform.
i-47b596c3990e222c-400	Madam President, I would like The speech that I make is written by my party friend and colleague Åsa Karlsson, who, due to the ongoing pandemic, cannot be in Stockholm to present it for herself. We are dealing here today with the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, KrU12 The Swedish National Audit Office's report on free admission to state museums. On 1 August 2017, the Act regulating publicly controlled museums entered into force. This law states that museums will contribute to society and its development by promoting knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation. The museums have an important role to play in our society. They are a source of knowledge about our past and our present. They are a meeting place where children and adults across generational boundaries can share the joy of a cultural experience that brings people closer together through the stories. Madam President, I would like On 1 February 2016, free admission was introduced at 18 state museums. The motive behind this was to attract more and new visitors to the museums. For new visitor groups and unaccustomed museum visitors, the step of visiting a museum would be easier to take if it was free of charge. More children and adults would have the opportunity to share our cultural heritage and history. More people would be able to see what cultural treasures and stories are available in our museums and what source of knowledge they are. The Government allocated SEK 80 million in an annual grant to compensate museums for the loss of income. The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed the free admission reform, since it has not been evaluated before, and reviewed how the museums have implemented the reform and how it affects the museums' overall activities. The Swedish National Audit Office has therefore not examined whether the free admission reform itself is something good or bad. Madam President, I would like What we are debating today is the government's letter, that is, the government's response to the National Audit Office's review of free admission to state museums. After the review, the Swedish National Audit Office has made a number of recommendations to the Government. These include recommendations to clarify the purpose and objectives of free admission, to develop a follow-up of free admissions that meet both government and museums' information needs and to ensure that free admission does not have a negative impact on museums' ability to carry out their main tasks. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the museums concerned have implemented the reform in an effective manner, based on the conditions set by the Government, and agrees mainly that the follow-up needs to be developed. The government also agrees in part that the governance needs to be clarified and that the reform changed the conditions for museums to finance their activities. On the other hand, the Government does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the free admission reform has affected museums' ability to perform their main tasks. Madam President, I would like In the letter, the Government reports on the measures to be taken to clarify the objectives, objectives and follow-up of the reform. The purpose of free admission is to increase the opportunities for everyone to take part in the activities of museums and thereby promote cultural experiences and education. The objective is also reflected in the overall national cultural policy objectives, that state cultural policy should promote everyone's opportunity for cultural experiences and education, and promote a living cultural heritage that is preserved, used and developed. The Government intends to further clarify the objectives and objectives of the reform. This will be done in the framework of the annual public sector dialogues that will take place in 2020. In terms of follow-up, the Government has commissioned museums to report on the visitor development data that the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis needs and the needs of the museums themselves to develop their own activities through the regulations for 2020. That assignment shall be reported by 21 August of this year. As regards the possibilities for museums to carry out their main tasks, the Government has contributed another SEK 10 million to the reform in its budget proposal for 2020 to meet costs that would have arisen as a result of increased visitor pressure. However, we know today that the activities of museums have been very different due to the current pandemic, and it will probably have to do so for some time to come. The extra money is important to ensure that the free admission reform does not affect museums' ability to carry out their main mission. Of course, the reform has changed the way museums are financed, but the increase in the cost of museums is a development that has been going on for a long time, and the Committee on Culture intends to monitor the development of costs in the future. There is also an investigation to analyse the current cost rental model between the Royal Opera, the Royal Dramatic Theatre, the National Museum, the National Museum of Natural History and the Historical Museum and the National Property Board. The purpose of the investigation is to review the impact of the current model on the state finances and tenants and to examine whether alternative models could exist. The investigation will also assess whether these models could be applied to other properties owned by the Statens fastighetsverk and where cultural activities are held. This assignment shall be reported to the Government by 31 October 2020. Finally, Madam President, for the Social Democrats, this reform is an important part of the government's overall efforts on culture. We Social Democrats also want to develop the reform to include free access to regional museums and hope to be able to do so in the near future. Madam President, I would like The committee shares the government's assessments and welcomes the government's actions. The Committee on Culture therefore proposes that the Government's letter to the Swedish National Audit Office include a report on free admission to state museums.
i-47b596c3990e222c-414	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Azadeh. In the letter itself and the assessments made by the Swedish National Audit Office, and to which the government responds, it is essential that this reform, whether for or against it, should not affect the ability of museums to carry out their main mission. Yet the museums in question, including the National Museum where Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson himself was present, talk about the opposite, i.e. that the additional funds are not enough. This was certainly before the extra 10 million that the government provided, but at least it does not cover the needs of these 18 museums. I would like Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson to comment on this. Then, Madam President, I cannot help but mention the free admission reform as such. It was a praise from the honourable Member, who said that they further look over free entrance to regional museums and so on. I also heard a lot of listings of Stockholm-based museums. It is easy as a Member from Stockholm to like this reform. But around the country there are so many other museums that bleed and have different owners. Now, if you are going to spend 90 million in these 18 museums of 1,600 throughout the country, how much money does the government actually have to spend on other museums? No, the 90 million would do a much better job at our local museums and the regional county museums.
i-47b596c3990e222c-419	Madam President, I would like The government has made historic efforts on culture in general during both the previous term and this term of office. For us Social Democrats, culture is incredibly important, and the investments in free admission reform are part of the major initiatives. Among other things, we Social Democrats have made it clear that we want to develop the free admission reform into regional museums and would like to see it happen soon. But the fact is that the Moderates and bourgeois parties, in cooperation with SD, want to make major cuts to culture. As you stand here and talk hotly about investments in, among other things, regional museums and regional cultural experiences and bodies, I wonder: Where did you intend to get that money when you want to cut back on culture and invest in culture? We insist that we want to see investments in regional museums and intend to try to implement them. And as I said, we see free admission as a way to make culture and our museums accessible to more people. Today, we see that more people are taking part in the activities of museums, and we want to continue to do so. Then there are improvements to be made. And just as the government has replied to the Swedish National Audit Office, it will make improvements and clarify the goals if it needs to be done.
i-47b596c3990e222c-424	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. What we do is not cutbacks but redeployments. The redistribution that we would like to see, among other things, is a broader effort towards living cultural life throughout the country instead of the concentration of capital which, among other things, free admission reform, is a sad example of. The free admission reform finds to some extent other visitor groups, but as reviews have shown, it is primarily aimed at tourists and selected visitors. Do you not want to listen to Sweden's museums, which talk about redundancies and the like? The Committee on Culture had visits at the beginning of the year of Sweden's museums. A review of the resource needs of the regional museums and, above all, what will result if the other 1,600 minus 18 museums around the country are not replenished. These include staff redundancies of key competences – those in charge of research and screening. What we have pushed above all, and to which we have redistributed money, is skills development and cooperation with our schools, because that is the most important thing. And it applies to the whole country and not just Stockholm, because it is the museums together with the schools that will carry the cultural heritage further.
i-47b596c3990e222c-427	Madam President, I would like For the government, as I said, efforts to make culture accessible to everyone throughout the country are not just about free admission. It is also about the cultural co-operation model and the cultural school and to try to get more children and young people to take part in cultural experiences via library initiatives and literature initiatives. A holistic approach is being taken to culture now that has not existed before. Free admission to state museums is part of this. We will continue to work towards making culture accessible to everyone throughout Sweden, and we would like to see, as I said, initiatives at regional museums in the future.
i-47b596c3990e222c-429	Madam President, I would like It is clear in these times that the government has, with a precision without its like, pointed out certain industries and, I would say, ignored others, such as cultural heritage outside Stockholm's customs. In many cases it is a question of places of interest that have been severely affected by this crisis because they live by receiving visitors and showing and, as Azadeh Rojhan Gustafsson himself mentioned, just making the culture and cultural heritage available. Here there are many actors bleeding. For a long time, the county museums have warned that they are not making ends meet. They are drained on resources and risk being drained on valuable key skills – skills that are needed in museums but that they may not be able to afford in the long term. The government's response has been to put this industry in the shade to a large extent, while the media sector, a large part of contemporary art and a large part of the sports movement – on many grounds good and sensible initiatives – has been targeted with precision. However, this part of the cultural sector has, in many respects, been put in the shade and has not provided resources when it is needed at its best. The Minister for Culture's response to this has been that there are regional action plans under way and so on. If you listen to the regions, that is not the case in many cases. My question is therefore simply: what is the line of the Social Democrats in this? Do you want the county museums and cultural historical actors in the country to take part in crisis measures in the current situation?
i-47b596c3990e222c-434	Madam President, I would like As presented this week, there will be a crisis package aimed at the regional cooperation model to help, among other things, the regions during the ongoing pandemic. As I said, this is being done now. But together, the Social Democratic-led government, together with the Green Party, has spent two terms of office to make culture accessible to everyone across the country – for children, young people and people whom Sweden's cultural institutions otherwise do not reach. As I said in my speech, the ambition of the Social Democrats is to introduce free admission into the regional museums as well in a special effort at regional museums and important institutions in the country. This is a political ambition that we will certainly follow up.
i-47b596c3990e222c-437	Madam President, I would like I also have a keyword, and that is just making it available – hence my question. A response to the different needs and realities of county museums and other foundation-driven or private or municipal museums in the country is not automatically free admission. Regional free admission reform is not a response to the different realities of museums. The Swedish Democrats' annual budget bill has been available for several years in response to the government's reform of our proposal for open museums. It is a government fund in which all museums, regardless of their principals, should be able to obtain funds to climate-adapt storage or collections, secure skills, digitise, inventory, expand educational activities, etc. But the Social Democrats are constantly saying no to this. Our reform is that museums themselves decide what needs they have in that particular place and in that particular environment. Not everyone has the need to introduce free admission. On the contrary, it may be an increased obstacle to the museum's activities to introduce free entrance, for the revenue side and in the long run. The ambition is said to be just to make available, but the government and the Social Democrats constantly say no to a ROT deduction for cultural heritage and to cultural pilots in Sweden's municipalities, as we have proposed. They say no to a cultural heritage fund and to open museums. The list of what is said to be 'no' to which cultural heritage could be made accessible can be made long. My question is therefore: how do the Social Democrats want to make cultural heritage available in the country?
i-47b596c3990e222c-443	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, we are aware of the increase in the cost of museums, and we need to follow these cost developments and respond to them. Of course, this must not stand in the way of Sweden's cultural institutions, including museums, being able to survive. Overall, as far as culture is concerned and making culture accessible, I still claim that the Social Democratic-led government has done what it can to make culture accessible to all. We have not excluded certain groups, and we have no ambition to do so. We have no ambition to reduce culture, but for us culture is an important part of the Swedish model. Emphasis on culture will always be an important part of our policy. There is also culture throughout the country and museums throughout the country. So we will continue to follow this. As I said, there is an increase in costs, and we in the Committee on Culture must follow these developments and see how the government intends to respond to it in the future.
i-47b596c3990e222c-446	Madam President, I would like Our common cultural heritage belongs to all of us and should be free and accessible to all. It is a fundamental starting point in the discussion about free admission. State museums and other public cultural heritage institutions shall be accessible to as many as possible. Wherever possible, cultural heritage institutions should remove fees, open up, actively seek out more and new visitor groups and visitors. I and the Green Party welcome the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office, which points to certain shortcomings in the reform carried out by the MP-S government last term of office with free admission to 18 state museums. The government has responded very well to the fact that measures will be taken or have already been taken against these shortcomings. But what the review above all shows is that the free admission reform has been and still is a great success. Cultural heritage is now much more free and accessible to more people. The number of visitors and visitors increased directly by around 50% when the reform was implemented, and this increase has been sustained. Much also suggests that more groups are reached, although it could not be established with certainty in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The latter has been a question mark. The Agency for Cultural Analysis has not been able to say clearly that the reform has reached out to new visitors or to the whole country. However, in the interviews that the Swedish National Audit Office has done, it appears that the museums have seen a clear increase in so-called inexperienced museum visitors. The museums also say that there is a little more life and movement now and that the visitors behave a little differently from what they did earlier. Several museums also believe that the free entrance reform has made it easier to reach out to other parts of the country. You don't have to guide all visitors through the museum's front door and entrance counter but can meet visitors where they are. It is about tours in the country, digital initiatives, outreach activities, school visits, lectures or, as mentioned in the report, for example the World Culture Museum's pop-up exhibition that has toured West Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report also deals with funding. It is a horizontal problem for the whole cultural sector that it is generally underfunded in relation to other sectors. Culture would simply benefit from greater public investment. Here, however, I would like to point out that, during the time we have had Green Ministers for Culture, public support for culture has increased considerably. We could even talk about the return of cultural policy after many years of bourgeois inaction. As far as the free admission reform is concerned, it is clear from the Swedish National Audit Office's review that it was thoroughly prepared. It was fully financed by the 80 million kronor that was added, and there was a great consensus between the various museum heads on the distribution of resources. One advantage that several of the museums bring with a funded free entrance is that the economy becomes more predictable. It will simply be easier to plan the business and the operating year when you know what the revenue side looks like. You can in peace and quiet plan exhibitions, events and special initiatives of various kinds. On the back of that coin there is a disadvantage highlighted in the same paragraph: museums find it difficult to influence their own revenues. What is not stated in the report is that it can actually be seen as an educational, artistic or perhaps more scientific advantage that one is not forced to take the economic revenue side into account when planning, for example, an exhibition or programme activity covered by the compensation. Rather, it is the artistic height or relevance to cultural heritage or to public education that is crucial – not the economy. An effect can then be higher quality in the business. When the review was carried out, the compensation had remained at SEK 80 million per year, but since then, as is well known, the government has added another SEK 10 million. The total is SEK 90 million for 2020. It should also be said that the Nationalmuseum has received special extra money to cope with the enormous crowd pressure that came after the new opening. It is not certain that it has only to do with free entrance, but rather that they have had a business and an exhibition that has become very popular. Madam President, I would like If you are going to say something about the reservations contained in the report by two parties, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, and what they are saying there, you can say that both express concern that the reform risks unilaterally benefiting urban residents, as it says in one reservation, or specifically adults in the inner city of Stockholm and tourists, as it says in the other. The reform means free admission at 18 museums, most of which have their exhibition facilities in Stockholm. But five of the museums – if I have counted correctly – are located in other locations, such as Karlskrona, Linköping and little Håbo municipality in Uppland, where Skokloster Castle Museum is located. But they are also found in Gothenburg and Malmö. But it is true that many of the state museums, like other cultural institutions, are located in Stockholm. However, the fact that we have cultural institutions in Stockholm can never be an argument for reducing the cultural budget or ignoring efforts. The government is investing widely in culture throughout the country. We have regional culture and municipal culture. The Red Green Government has consistently supported municipalities and regions in their cultural efforts. About half – perhaps a little more – of the county museums have free admission today. In my own constituency, which is also my municipality of residence, and which happens to be the city of Stockholm, the Green Party was the driving force when we introduced free admission into our two municipal museums, the City Museum and the Medieval Museum. Welcome there, I have to say, because these are fantastic museums! The background was, of course, the safeguarding of the common cultural heritage. The Green Party has also ensured that we have left free admission at the two municipally driven museums now that we have entered the green blue coalition that has been running Stockholm since the 2018 election. Without the Green Party, that would not have been the case. Madam President, I would like I'd be happy to push for us to open up free entrances in more museums with state funds. This applies both to state museums and foundation museums, but also to county museums and municipal museums, and also to private or community-run museums, if possible. It's about the cultural heritage. It belongs to all of us and should be free and accessible to all. It is about culture, education and democracy. With free admission we reduce the thresholds for more visitors and for new groups of visitors. With free admission, we are also talking about the cultural heritage actually belonging to all of us, owned by all of us, jointly. It is also an important educational gain. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-47b596c3990e222c-465	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mats Berglund! I am delighted that you represent your minister's party here in the debate because you have now held the post of Minister for Culture for two terms of office. Mats Berglund brings the free admission reform forward as a success. In some parts you can see it that way, but you still have to start with the recommendations that the Swedish National Audit Office has in its letter and which are also the opinion of the Moderates and also the Swedish Democrats in our respective reservations. We do not believe that this has been fully responded to by the government. This is particularly true in the sense that the reform should not affect the main mission of museums, for it has obviously done so. Madam President, I would like Mats Berglund points out, among other things, that the addition of 10 million to the free entrance reform because the money was not enough would be the answer to all the problems the museums have. It's not like that! You need revenue to be able to manage your basic business. The other activities that Mats Berglund highlights, the tours and so on, are not included in the free admission reform. It is the basic activity that is included; the other exhibitions still have to be paid for. I also wonder if this success also includes those who live in Sundsvall, in Jokkmokk or, for that matter, in the inner city of Småland. It costs money to get to Stockholm, which is covered by and gets part of this money.
i-47b596c3990e222c-471	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Annicka Engblom, for the questions. Yes, I certainly maintain that the reform is a success. It is a success because the cultural heritage is made available to more people. It will be much easier to visit our museums. We have seen that the number of visits has risen very strongly. The reform also offers the opportunity to visit museums in a different way. We have a different structure of visitors and a different pattern of visits today, which favours the teaching and education of the museums and, therefore, the mission of democracy. You now have the opportunity to visit a museum once without having to go through it and rush through a whole collection. Museums can be quite large, and if you come with children, for example, it can be quite difficult to go through an entire museum. Now you have the opportunity. We have seen before that you can come back several times, and when we talk to museum staff they say that this has been a great advantage. The Swedish National Audit Office made some recommendations. I think the government responds very well to these. The objectives and objectives shall be clarified and clarified in public sector dialogues. The visitor statistics may need to be reviewed; it is unfortunate that the museums have not really sent in the statistics requested. Questions about this now come in the regulatory letters, and the museum authorities will report back in August. The funding was full. This is also pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report. But the visitor numbers have gone up, and now we have added both additional funds to the entire reform and special funds to the National Museum.
i-47b596c3990e222c-476	Madam President, I would like It is very interesting to note the praise that Mr Mats Berglund sings over this as a success, without actually having any figures as a basis for his claims. He has no evidence other than some high visitor numbers and livelyness in the museums, as the honourable Member put it. I think we need much deeper analysis than that. However, the main point in this is – and I did not get an answer to this – that it is easy to stand and sing this praise when you come from Stockholm and when the majority of the 90 million goes to Stockholm-based operations, which are very important to the nation. The activities of these state museums are fantastic, and we are in complete agreement. I sing the praises of the museums, but I do not sing any praise over how the government has chosen to put this money that could do so much more good around the country and make it possible to seriously talk about a living cultural and museum life throughout the country. Madam President, I would like I happen to live in Karlskrona, which has one of these state museums, namely the Marine Museum – a fantastic activity, loved by everyone, not least children. They have a fantastic exchange with schools throughout the municipality and also throughout the county and surrounding parts. They have had free admission even when there has been no reform. The visitor figures have increased because they have developed their content, digitally and historically and with an insight that makes us all feel involved in the museum and find it exciting. For this, all museums – including Blekinge Museums and local museums in Stockholm and throughout the country – need additional resources. Put the money there instead!
i-47b596c3990e222c-479	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to congratulate Annicka Engblom on staying very close to a very nice museum. So do I. Of course, I have many museums where I live, and we have talked about that. When it comes to the fact that the statistics are not reliable, the increase is very well documented. Both the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis and the Swedish National Audit Office have pointed out that the number of visits increased by almost 50 percent directly and that this increase persists. That is beyond doubt. As far as the inexperienced groups are concerned, I mentioned two quotations from the report. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis also points out, however, that there are signs that more inexperienced visitors come to the museums that have free admission, even if they do not have statistics on it. I agree: we may need to steer the statistics – without overburdening them, of course. Annicka Engblom talks about the whole country. In the M-KD budget, on which we ran the country for a large part of the last parliamentary term, you took away the whole effort for free admission. You're talking about children, but you took away the emphasis on children's culture and culture school. This money that you took away, 160 million, was not found anywhere else in the cultural budget. The reasonable thing would have been, if there were any credibility behind Annicka Engblom's words, that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the other parties who voted in favour of that budget had put it back in the form of support to, for example, the county museums. The red-green government has invested heavily in culture throughout the country. We have invested in libraries, museums, cultural cooperation models, folk high schools, creative places and things that exist all over the country – most recently also SEK 150 million in Corona support, which among other things will go to the county museums.
i-47b596c3990e222c-484	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Transport Committee's report No 15, which deals with rail and public transport issues. There are motions from general exercise time, a review from the Swedish National Audit Office on the state's planning of high-speed roads and the government's letter on this review. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Left Party, but I would particularly like to support Amendment No 11 on the importance of reducing rail rail infrastructure charges. Sweden and the world have now been paralyzed for three months by the crisis caused by the Corona virus. But there is a crisis that is even more far-reaching, far-reaching and totally dangerous to our existence, and that is the climate crisis. Although the Corona crisis has contributed to a temporary reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the overall level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere continues to increase. Last month, May, the carbon dioxide content in the atmosphere was 417 millionths. It is the highest level of at least 800 000 years, probably even further back in time. May was also the warmest month since measurements began over 100 years ago. In this context, it is important that we discuss emissions from the transport sector, which accounts for one third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. Road traffic accounts for about 90% of transport emissions. Despite the target of reducing emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030, emissions do not decrease to the extent that they should. The good thing about this report is that both rail and public transport have great potential to solve the climate crisis we are currently experiencing. Rail transport is almost entirely electrified in Sweden. Transport by public transport is also mostly spent on electricity or on biofuels. In other words, there is a huge gain in shifting the transport of people and goods to public transport and rail. We in the Left Party have a plan for this very thing. The common thread of our proposals in the report is to reward what is sustainable at the expense of what pollutes, all according to the polluter pays principle. Some proposals for reforms that we have in the report and which I would like to stress in particular, I am going to mention now. The first is to increase funding for public transport. As soon as the Coronapandemine has gone to bed, we in the Left Party expect us all to work for more people to travel collectively. We hope that we can achieve the target of doubling the market share of public transport that we all support. In this context, it is worrying that travelling collectively has become so much more expensive. The tariffs for travelling collectively in our regions have increased by over 40% over the last 10 years. Or to take another figure: Over the past 15 years, the general price increase, the CPI, has been 18 percent, but the increase in the price of a monthly card has been 70 percent. It has thus become almost four times more expensive to travel collectively than the general price increase. Compared to travel collectively with travelling with your own car, it is quite frightening. Travelling with your own car has become very much cheaper in relative terms. We in the Left Party therefore want to spend more money on public transport, both on operation and on investments, to make it cheaper to travel collectively but also to make the necessary investments that need to be made. We welcome the additional EUR 3 billion that the government has allocated to public transport now under the coronapndemine, but it simply needs a lot more money than that. We also need a simpler ticketing system. Overall, we need to make it easier to travel collectively, not least for disabled people, and to improve the services of those travelling collectively. Madam President, I would like The increased funding for public transport that we in the Left Party want can be partly financed by the introduction of a distance-based road wear charge, also known as mileage tax. With a road wear charge, it is simply more expensive to transport goods long distances by truck on our roads. We will then receive money that can be used to transfer freight transport to rail. As far as I know, a proposal for a road wear charge is also in a drawer at the Government Office. The issue is simply being investigated and prepared. So now is the time to make that proposal a reality. While we want to make it more expensive to transport goods by road, we want to make it cheaper to make corresponding transport by rail. Is it not strange that the railways pay about SEK 2 billion annually in so-called rail charges, i.e. charges for transporting on the railways, while there is no corresponding charge for road transport? Especially now during Coronatimes we in the Left Party see a great joke in moving heavy transport from road to rail. We in the Left Party therefore want to reduce or completely abolish rail charges for freight traffic. The government has responded to this proposal by adding SEK 200 million in so-called environmental compensation for rail freight charges. It is welcome but far from enough. Madam President, I would like We also need more efficient railway maintenance. We in the Left Party believe that since the state is the owner of our railways, the state should also be responsible for maintaining them. This was the case in the past, but for ten years the maintenance has been privatised and is now managed by a few companies. We in Sweden should today have Europe's most liberalised railway maintenance, but we also have one of Europe's worst organised railway maintenance. A few months ago, the state investigation into railway maintenance was presented. The investigator rightly notes that the opening of competition for railway maintenance has not led to the hoped-for efficiency and innovation in maintenance operations. ..................................................... It is therefore high time to do the same as most other European countries and take back maintenance responsibility on its own. So we can get the best control and do the most effective maintenance. We will simply get world-class maintenance once again. However, this should not rule out the possibility of using private companies at Trafikverket when one wishes to do so to provide the maintenance that one cannot do or does not want to do. In addition to this reorganisation of maintenance, more money is also needed for railway maintenance. We are now in a very good position under the coronapndemin to carry out more maintenance work because our runways are not as busy as before. Again, I can say that we in the Left Party welcome the money that the government has allocated in this area, about SEK 700 million, but it simply needs more money to get the maintenance that we need. We in the Left Party also want to change the ownership directive to SJ. We do not see that it should be an end in itself for SJ to make as much profit as possible. That profit is paid by all of us who travel and with increasingly higher fares. We in the Left Party want SJ to be a well-run company, but SJ should not have high return requirements in its mission. We therefore want the state to change its instructions to SJ so that the company can lower the prices of tickets and provide better service even if it costs a little more. And of course SJ will drive trains throughout the country, even if it is not fully profitable. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to say a few words about the letter from the government that we are also debating today, which is a response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the planning of the construction of new high-speed rail lines. New main roads are not built very often in a country. The last time we built main tracks in Sweden was about a hundred years ago. We built the Southern Main Line and the Western Main Line, and then Inland Line and Malmbanan were built at the top of Norrland and so on. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the state for the planning of high-speed lines. To some extent, I can understand the criticism, for this has been a planning that has been completely lifted outside the regular infrastructure plan. We should remember that the first steps to build high-speed trains in Sweden were taken during the period of Reinfeldt in the summer of 2014 in an additional directive to the so-called Swedish negotiation. The Swedish negotiation was about so much more than just building rail. It was about housing, public transport, bicycle infrastructure and other things. So I can understand how that government reasoned. A special arrangement was needed for this extensive expansion. Regardless of this, we can all see that it is now time to build new main roads in Sweden. The interest rates are record lows. It is very cheap for the state of Sweden to borrow the entire amount, about SEK 200 billion, to build new main rail lines for high-speed trains from Stockholm to Gothenburg and from Stockholm to Malmö. It would also be very good to do this in these times when more people have become unemployed. We in the Left Party have always been in favour of the construction of high-speed roads, and we believe that the government's response to the National Audit is entirely reasonable and good. Therefore, the Government's letter was approved.
i-47b596c3990e222c-508	Mr President, I would like to We are debating rail issues and also high-speed trains today. A functioning rail system is crucial for a sustainable and robust transport system. It lays the foundation for people to be able to commute to and from work and for goods and goods to arrive on time. Pendlers throughout Sweden and Swedish companies and, above all, industry must be able to trust that the railway works and that they can choose the train as a sustainable mode of transport to carry their goods. Emphasis on new tracks should be focused on facilitating work commuting and freight transport. It strengthens jobs and growth throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to Longer and heavier freight trains increase the competitiveness of the train through improved profitability and efficiency. The Swedish Transport Agency has conducted trials with traffic with up to 730 meters long freight trains in Sweden. The results are presented in the report Opportunities to drive longer and/ or heavier freight trains. Increased length of trains means that the same amount of goods can be transported by fewer trains. It reduces transport costs and frees up track capacity. The railway system becomes less sensitive to disturbances as the number of trains in motion is reduced. The Moderates believe that there is a need to further investigate the issue of longer and heavier freight trains. However, the question of longer trains also applies to passenger transport. In Sweden, the passenger trains are on average six wagons long, while in France and Germany eight and twelve wagons are valid respectively. There is therefore a possibility of reviewing longer trains for passenger traffic as well. Mr President, I would like to Through competition on the railways, passengers can be offered more departures and lower prices. It also contributes to efficiency efficiency and a supply that is tailored to demand. The rail market has been liberalised in stages, and since 2011, private train operators can apply to drive on all rail lines in Sweden. According to research from, among other things, the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, the market has been positively affected by liberalisation, and competition has contributed to efficiency improvements and innovations. However, several problems remain in order to achieve effective competition. This applies to path allocation where it is easier for a long-established operator like SJ to have access to attractive train paths than for new entrants. It is also a matter of custody and, in particular, ticketing. The fact that SJ has an excessive competitive advantage vis-à-vis its competitors is confirmed by the Competition Authority in a letter to the Government. The letter identifies a major market problem, and the Competition Authority points to several factors such as SJ's strong position on the train market combined with its position as the central sales channel. The Competition Authority questions whether it can be established without action at all booking platforms that represent effective competitive pressure on SJ's online channels and promote entry and expansion in the rail market in the longer term. We Moderates hope that precisely the issue of competitively neutral and easily accessible ticketing will be resolved if the government makes proposals that are in line with the investigation into a national ticketing system for public transport. Mr President, I would like to In December 2015, investigator Gunnar Alexandersson presented his final report Another train order – beyond the railway knot. It is probably the largest review of Swedish railways that has ever been carried out. The investigator presented a wide range of proposals aimed at strengthening the rail system and increasing the efficiency of the tracks. It is therefore very remarkable that the Social Democratic-led government never sent out the final report for a referral. Mr President, I would like to Maintenance of the railway that we already have in place is important for passengers and goods to arrive on time. In order to obtain as much and as good infrastructure as possible for the tax money invested, effective competition is needed. The procurement of railway maintenance and investment has enabled more efficient use to be made of tax resources. According to a report by VTI, competition through railway maintenance procurement has reduced maintenance costs by 12%, while maintaining quality. Furthermore, Trafikverket has pointed out that renationalisation will lead to cost increases. In the light of this, the government's ideologically coloured investigation of renationalisation is rather difficult to understand. Backing back to an old system will generate increased costs and effectively close the door to new and innovative solutions. That is not what Sweden needs. Setting up an investigation so controlled and politically ideologically coloured is irresponsible. A more reasonable focus would be how to increase the quality of railway maintenance and make it even more effective. In both Alexandersson's investigation and the latest investigation, the Swedish Transport Administration is criticised for how to procure and comply with agreements. It is also criticised for not having sufficient control of the status of the plants. What exactly would be better if Trafikverket got even more responsibility is hard to see. Mr President, I would like to Cooperation and coordination with other countries are needed for well-functioning international rail travel. Action at EU level is necessary to develop coherent and efficient rail transport markets in Europe. Market opening for passenger services under the 4th railway package contributes, through increased competition, to meeting passengers' and society's demands for an attractive, efficient and long-term sustainable supply of good quality services. It contributes to increased rail travel in favour of growth, employment, regional development and the environment. It is therefore essential to work at all levels for the full implementation of the fourth railway package in Sweden and other Member States. It needs to be much easier to book train tickets in Europe. I myself am a member of the Facebook group Train Holiday. For those who read the posts on how to book tickets to get out of Europe, it is not difficult to understand that many are reluctant to even try. It should reasonably be as easy to book a train ticket to travel in Europe as to book a flight ticket via air travel.se. It is a much more important and effective measure to get more train travel out into Europe than to procure night trains to Cologne and Brussels. Mr President, I would like to We are in a serious situation. Many people are concerned about their own health and that of their loved ones. Right now, the focus should be on controlling the spread of infection and limiting the impact on jobs and businesses. However, there is a time after Corona, when Sweden will be strong and ready to rebuild our economy. Infrastructure issues will then be very important. The fact that the airlines, haulage companies, taxi companies, ports and local transport that have been severely tested at the moment survives the crisis will be important elements when the Swedish economy restarts with full force. Unfortunately, the issue of high-speed rail is a wet blanket throughout the debate on infrastructure. The Swedish National Audit Office recently presented its report. The government's response is also included in the report. In substance, the authority does not take a position, which is both reasonable and sensible. Instead, the Swedish National Audit Office examines whether the Government has investigated the matter in accordance with the guidelines decided by the Government and the Riksdag. In short, the answer is no. This is worrying, not least because high-speed rail is the biggest infrastructure policy issue in many decades. Independent assessors have estimated that the project will eventually land at nearly SEK 400 billion. The Government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office justifies the shortcomings of the long-term discussion of the matter. That is a remarkably weak argument. Trains are a brilliant way of travel, especially in commuting areas around the big cities. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the question of high-speed rail has not undergone a proper analysis in the form of the long-established four-stage model. The cost calculations for the project were of long low quality and the problem descriptions are general and without more detailed analysis, according to Riksrevisionen. The Government has chosen not to commission the Swedish Transport Administration to assess the project on the basis of the usual management of major infrastructure policy initiatives. That is very remarkable. The result is a poorly prepared and very expensive project with very limited use. It is a project that we will all have to pay through the tax bill for decades to come. The least taxpayers can ask of the government is that decisions relating to hundreds of billions of dollars of our tax money have been prepared thoroughly and comprehensively. Our call to the government is to listen to the Swedish National Audit Office and to ask the Finnish Transport Administration to do a thorough analysis of the entire project. It is now possible to change and do the right thing on the issue of high-speed rail. Mr President, I would like to We support all our reservations, but in order to save time at the vote, I choose to apply only for reservation 1.
i-47b596c3990e222c-531	Mr President, I would like to The railway is a system, and all parts of that system must work. If maintenance is bad, the trains can be standing. It could be a contact line or something else that's been torn down. Rail maintenance can be compared to what happens in a factory. A factory produces iron ore, steel or similar. In that factory you have full control of the plant. If there's something wrong, you stand out and you fix it right away. Rail transport produces services. You transport goods and people. If there's something wrong with the railroad, you can't exactly stand out and fix it. In that case, the Finnish Transport Administration, which has no control over the production apparatus, will have to make a tender and then assess which company is best suited to carry out the work. Maria Stockhaus said that the liberalisation and privatisation of maintenance would lead to efficiency and innovation. But we now see that there are a few companies that respond to the procurements that come from the Swedish Transport Administration at all. It is on average between one and three companies that respond. Contracts are often appealed against. It's going to be a long process. You have to pay damages etcetera. A few years ago, Britain completely withdrew maintenance under the government's own direction. Switzerland has always had its own maintenance. I would like to ask Maria Stockhaus: if it should turn out that the liberalisation of maintenance in Sweden has not led to efficiency improvements and innovation, are the Moderates then prepared to reconsider their position of maintaining the privatisation of railway maintenance at the moment?
i-47b596c3990e222c-536	Mr President, I would like to We already have an answer. According to VTI it will be 12 percent cheaper with retained quality. The Finnish Transport Agency itself also says that the costs would increase if they were to take back maintenance in their own direction. I therefore think that those answers already exist and that we have good reasons to say no to the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration will again take responsibility for the implementation of maintenance. In Alexandersson's investigation but in fact also the latest investigation, Trafikverket itself receives a lot of criticism for having done bad procurements and had poor procurement documentation. One example is the procurement of maintenance of the metro in Stockholm. This has been done in a completely different way, with a completely different responsibility for those who carry out the maintenance. There is, in principle, no major disruption at all, as there has been a completely different type of procurement. It is important to have better control at the plants and to procure in such a way as to give a clear responsibility for the operation to continue to work. There is every reason to believe and hope that efficiency will give us more money. At present, with the shortcomings we still see in the maintenance operations, it is 12% while maintaining quality. There are conditions for competition to lead to even lower costs while maintaining or improving quality.
i-47b596c3990e222c-540	Mr President, I would like to The reason I asked was that I saw that the Moderates in their reservation referred to the 2014 VTI report by Kristofer Odolinski. That's where he's talking about efficiency. However, the latest state-owned public investigation into rail maintenance states – I think it is on p. 74 – that the liberalisation of rail maintenance has not led to efficiency improvements and innovations in the way hoped for. That is why I am Maria again asking: if the Moderates read with an open mind the latest public investigation in this area, which states that this did not lead to efficiency improvements and innovations, are they prepared to reconsider the position they are taking today, which means maintaining the fully liberalised railway maintenance? That's how it was in Britain. It finally came to the conclusion that it no longer worked. Nothing worked. There were even major disasters where people died. Then they took back the maintenance in their own direction. Last October we were in the Transport Committee in Switzerland and looked at the recipe for the success of the Swiss railway, with trains running on time and exemplary maintenance. We asked: What kind of maintenance do you have? We got the answer: we take care of it ourselves. We want to keep an eye on our facilities. That's why we don't spend maintenance on external actors, except for tasks that we can't handle ourselves. I would like to ask Maria Stockhaus once again: are the Moderates prepared to take on board the latest investigation, with the most up-to-date and solid data, and to reconsider their position on the railway maintenance issue?
i-47b596c3990e222c-544	Mr President, I would like to I would say that this issue is primarily ideological. I have worked on education issues and I recognise the debate and the discussion about whether things are getting better in their own right or whether they should be spent on other actors. VTI is an independent institute that has found that it will be 12% cheaper while maintaining quality. The directives for the latest investigation are extremely ideologically coloured. Originally, the focus was actually to renationalise and add all maintenance to the Swedish Transport Administration. I would like to pay tribute to the Liberals and the Centre Party, which managed to soften the directives somewhat. But I give my confidence more to VTI, which is independent, than to an ideologically coloured investigation. Of course, we are interested in getting better rail maintenance at a lower price. But we are absolutely convinced that we get it by opening up the maintenance business to competition, as the VTI also clearly shows.
i-47b596c3990e222c-547	Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats are behind all our motions. I am in favour of reservation 1, which deals with new high-speed main rail lines, a project which has become a cuckoo who is pushing other important rail initiatives out of the nest. Since the last railway debate, there has been a lot of water under the railway bridges. We have seen a whole country and a whole world more or less paralyzed by a pandemic. But even before the pandemic, last autumn, we witnessed over 400 of the country's approximately 3,600 railway technicians warning of dismissal, which was a consequence of the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration did not have control of its finances and literally had to pull the emergency brake. As a result, many track works were cancelled – jobs that were planned for a long time but could not be carried out. Employees were allowed to go home with two weeks notice, and necessary maintenance froze inside. Despite the Swedish Transport Administration's lack of governance, the government could have saved the situation by giving the Swedish Transport Administration an increased grant credit, which we advocated from the Swedish Democrats and which the Swedish Transport Administration wanted. However, the government chose not to heed this. With today's skills shortages in the industry, it will also be difficult to catch up with these missing track work. The cost will be higher once the work is resumed, and there will be expensive double planning that will burden both entrepreneurs and the Finnish Transport Agency. I give the government and Trafikverket the grade one in five for this handling. Mr President, I would like to With the coronapandemine, the industry has been given a golden opportunity to catch up with some of these cancelled track work, as there has suddenly been a narrower track since a lot of train departures have been cancelled. On 30 April, therefore, the Swedish Democrats presented a committee initiative to allocate more funds to strengthen railway maintenance, as the industry's virtually all companies have requested. But by choosing not to act at all for two months, the government is now in danger of slipping out of our hands. Not until the committee initiative ended up on the Finance Committee's table did the government, through the cooperation party Center, choose to go out two hours before deciding on our committee initiative and announce that the government would invest 720 million in strengthened railway maintenance. The media swallowed the bait with wool and hair, but at a closer examination it turned out that the addition was only 200 million. Of the remaining amount, 120 million were compensation for missing track charges and 400 million compensation for cost increases in already ongoing maintenance projects. This, Mr President, is called politics. A sad news that came last week was that suicide in the rail sector has increased. In 2019 112 people died in rail traffic, and in 94 of these cases the cause was suicide. Even greater efforts need to be made here. Of course, this must also be done in psychiatry, but the Finnish Transport Agency must also speed up the construction of physical barriers within the track environment to make access to the track area more difficult. Mr President, I would like to In the trail of Corona we see how the accuracy has increased, when the capacity shortage is largely gone. The fact that we are going to strengthen maintenance is probably behind all parties, but then how we are going to build away the capacity shortage there are differences of opinion. The Swedish Democrats believe that more focus must be placed on strengthening the capacity of freight transport needs rather than just looking at the needs of passenger transport. For example, in order to achieve redundancy and increased capacity in Norrland for the important steel and timber transports, the Ostcoast Line must be upgraded to double tracks adapted for freight trains and the Norrbotnia Line completed as soon as possible. Ostkustbanan is probably Sweden's longest bottleneck and is perhaps the country's top priority project from both a freight and passenger perspective. The expansion to double tracks of the busy route Mjölby – Hallsberg must be accelerated. It should have been done 30 years ago, but as it looks now, it is not clear until 2027. To name a few other important tracks for the goods, we have the freight route through Bergslagen, Värmlandsbanan, Västrastambanan and Mittbanan Sundsvall – Ånge. There is also a need to improve marshalling yards, such as those in Hallsberg, Malmö and Sävenäs. If we switch onto the track with high-speed tracks, I can say that I find it very difficult to see that there would be resources for the Swedish industry's need for rehabilitation and reinforcement if that project became a reality. We, like the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, believe that this project should be put on hold for more urgent efforts. The Finnish Transport Agency needs to improve its planning process in order to reduce the amount of so-called forest time for freight trains – it has doubled in twelve years. Green Cargo estimates that the extra cost is about 300 million for the trains being set aside. The Finnish Transport Agency must also speed up work to enable longer and heavier freight trains. The rail freight sector is currently struggling with major profitability problems. If we want to control more goods from truck to train, it is of course an advantage if there are still players in the industry who can carry out these transports. Mr President, I would like to On March 31 this year, a government investigation was released called Future Railway Maintenance, conducted by one-man investigator Erland Olauson, as previous speakers have also mentioned. This study identifies the guidelines for future railway maintenance. Several things are supported by Swedish democrats, but not everything. Since Banverket and Vägverket were merged into Trafikverket and maintenance in their own direction was abolished, Trafikverket's competence in railway matters has deteriorated and dependence on consultants has increased due to a lack of own competence. The number of employees within the Finnish Transport Agency has also increased dramatically since 2010 by about 30 per cent. On the Swedish democrats' side, we believe that this merger has been evil. Our opinion is that the Swedish Transport Administration has become a huge colossus that must be divided again. We therefore want to see a return to a road network and a rail network. The competences in the different areas are completely distinct, and a division had strengthened the competence within each work. The Swedish Democrats welcome a certain take-over of government maintenance. However, the share should not exceed the share currently held by the state-owned company Infranord AB. The fact that the government conducts basic maintenance in its own right maintains the competence within the work. It is easier to move from one position in maintenance to another in administration, and you take important knowledge with you. Competence remains within the work. The part that is not procured avoids a comprehensive and costly procurement process where few companies compete for the tenders. The contracts to be withdrawn can be discussed, but the main routes and key hubs could be appropriate to withdraw under government control. Areas in their own right should be evenly distributed across the country, something that unfortunately was missed in the investigation. The investigation proposes that the state-owned company Infranord AB should remain and compete with the other companies, while at the same time at least eleven contracts are in its own hands. We do not support this. There has been criticism from the industry that Infranord AB has made subcontracts. Right or wrong, but the mere suspicion is in itself worrying. A state-owned company that goes back is backed by the state. This competitive advantage does not benefit private companies. In the event of a takeover of maintenance under government control, Infranord AB should therefore be liquidated and be included in Trafikverket or Banverket, as we would rather see. Finally, Mr President, I would like us to look at Norway, which is now increasing resources for rail maintenance. The Swedish Democrats want to streamline the Swedish Transport Administration. As I mentioned earlier, the number of employees has increased by about 30% in just nine years. In our neighbouring country, Norway, we choose to do exactly as we have proposed in our committee motion. I read the headline from the press release: Spares in the office for use more in the spore. I'm sorry about my bad Norwegian. Savings are made from 2023 of half a billion NOK by reducing administrative staff in order to free up more money for increased resources on the track where the resources are most useful. Sweden had to go the same way. We should be able to get rid of funds that can instead be put on everything from sleepers and gear changes to track orientation and reinvestment projects. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish railway needs more railway technicians, not more railway administrators.
i-47b596c3990e222c-566	Mr President, I would like to As I seem today to have a tendency to shift my speaking time in my speeches, I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 23. Of course, we support our other reservations and specific opinions. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party, together with the government parties and the Liberals, has reached a substantive political agreement, the so-called January Agreement. The January agreement makes it clear, among other things, that new main roads will be completed so that Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and regions and cities along and in connection with the route of the track are better connected with modern and sustainable communications. New high-capacity core tracks and modern trains create a labour market enlargement on a completely new scale that enables growth and strengthens Swedish competitiveness. The January agreement states that the work to complete Norrbotniabanan will be intensified and that further reinforcement of the railway in northern Sweden will take place. It's good that that work is rolling on. This will mean that one of the major challenges of the Swedish railway – the lack of capacity to meet increased travel and volume of goods – will be removed over time. This may sound dry, and I am sure it did just now. In practice, however, this means that we are creating the conditions for continuing to be a country where industry is strong and continues to create jobs and new growth. We can also note, Mr President, that the needs for investment in and maintenance of the railways are great. At the same time, we have a situation where the pandemic has reduced rail traffic. Of course, it's not pleasing. But it opens up for more time to perform repairs on the Swedish railways. That is why I am particularly pleased that the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Government added an additional budget of 1.2 billion extra to the maintenance of rail and the fine-meshed road network in the spring. It is simply to fix the situation and take the opportunity to try to remedy an urgent problem. A robust and punctual rail system is a prerequisite for more people to choose the train whether it is personal travel or freight. But then you have to be able to trust that the train will arrive on time. Winning back travelers after covid-19 will be one of our major public transport challenges in the near future. If we fail to do so, accessibility will deteriorate. There is also a risk that efforts to reduce climate emissions will change at the same time. We also risk a dramatic increase in congestion on our roads. Increased public transport contributes to reducing emissions but also to reducing congestion on the roads. In order to encourage regions to work to increase the share of public transport travel, the Centre Party wants to introduce a public transport bonus as one of many measures. Mr President, I would like to The statistics show that in our country public transport is used more by women than by men. It is, of course, due to a persistent economic inequality. If you are single, you have worse economics as a single woman than as a single man. If you live in a relationship, it is common that it is the husband who uses the only car or the better car. In practice, we see that the labour market region – the distance you are willing to travel to work – is less for women than for men in this country. A good public transport situation is not just something that helps to build the labour market stronger and reduce our climate impact. It is also a measure for greater equality in practice. In order to develop a more equal and therefore more sustainable transport system, it is important that we work for better public transport. It is basically a gender equality issue. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party also wants to promote a review of existing legislation on public transport to enable new collective transport solutions. We also believe that climate declarations for collective travel should be introduced so that it is possible to determine, as a transport buyer and commuter, the impact on the climate. The Government's proposal 2019/ 20:65 A comprehensive climate policy states that a national ticketing system for all public transport in Sweden should be introduced by 2022. It will be easier to combine public transport within and between regions and with different modes of transport. It should be easy to search for and buy tickets. A first step in this change is now taken in the form of a thorough investigation presented to the Transport Committee. The next step will be referral and legislation. In concrete terms, this means that a traveller should be able to travel with the same licence no matter where in the country the journey is made. This, too, is the result of the January agreement between the Center Party and our cooperation parties. It will be an important step in winning back public transport passengers in a post-corona mode. As I have mentioned several times before, we have concluded an agreement with the government and the cooperation parties. The agreement also shows that increased investments in maintenance and investments in new tracks are important elements to achieve increased punctuality. A long-term maintenance plan and a programme of measures to achieve increased punctuality shall be developed. They shall deal with such matters as access to replacement traffic, passenger information, quality of snow clearance and readiness to quickly remedy e.g. overhead contact line breakdowns. The Finnish Transport Agency shall have the right to reject trains that are at risk of tearing down overhead contact lines or otherwise tearing too much on the railway. Mr President, I would like to With regard to railway maintenance, the Center Party is very firm: we believe that railway maintenance on state railways should be procured on market terms. The contracting authority, the Finnish Transport Agency, shall have the right competence to ensure that maintenance is effective and of high quality. The Center Party wants to ensure commercialism, productivity and a developed market for railway maintenance. If we fail to achieve this, the tax resources we spend on railway maintenance risk burning up on the altar of inflation and inefficiencies. That, Mr President, would be deeply tragic. There are major environmental and societal benefits to exploit by enabling transport with heavier, longer and more transport efficient vehicles on the Swedish road and rail network. While spare capacity is being used more optimally and emissions of carbon dioxide among other things are being reduced, the competitiveness of transport-dependent industries is improving. By enabling heavier vehicles to roll on Sweden's roads and railways, industries would save millions of SEK while creating environmental benefits. To put the road and rail modes of transport against each other as some debaters is deeply counterproductive if we want to achieve improvements for the climate, the construction of society and the competitiveness of Swedish industry. We need to equip the railways for the future as well as turn road transport into climate neutrality.
i-47b596c3990e222c-583	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to putting modes of transport against each other, I think it is quite relevant to ask ourselves whether we think it is reasonable for lorries to drive from southern Sweden to Stockholm or even further, to northern Sweden – distances where you might as well have been able to transport the goods by rail. It is now the case that rail transport charges are paid for rail transport while the corresponding kilometre charge is not available for heavy road transport. In fact, we have to ask ourselves whether it is possible to make long-distance rail transport more advantageous instead of road transport, not least for climate reasons. I thought that was something that the Center Party was a supporter of. Mr President, I would like to It was really another issue that I was interested in. It sounds at Magnus Ek as if we will solve all the problems of the railways in the future. He mentioned Norrbotniabanan with tracks all the way to Luleå and Ostkustbanan with double tracks from Gävle to Härnösand. In the national infrastructure plan there are also four tracks from Uppsala to Stockholm, and a number of other important investments have been identified. The problem is that this is the last thing in the infraplan. At the earliest, these important projects begin in 2024, sometimes not until 2029. Nor is there any funding for these important projects.
i-47b596c3990e222c-588	Mr President, I would like to I am fully aware of how nice it would be if we had a little more rail and more space on it. I come from a part of the country where we never had much access to the main roads. Where I live, in the industrial municipality of Valdemarsvik on the east coast, trains were not built. They built narrow tracks to Norrköping. And even if we wish we had a large railway there, we are still affected by the decisions taken in the 19th century. I do not believe that there is any party in Parliament that would like to build so many new main roads that we could phase out road transport. They will be extremely important for jobs and growth throughout the country for the foreseeable future. Of course, it is also crucial that we not only look at one or two modes of transport but actually take on the big challenge of changing road traffic and making sure that climate emissions are reduced as far as possible. However, as I said earlier, I do not think that this needs to stand up to the fact that we also see the need to increase capacity on Swedish railways. It is about new main routes, but it is also about making efforts of a minor nature throughout the country. It's about making sure we get new gears and new turnaround tracks in place in Småland, and it's about that we need to expand the Norrbotnia Line. We're not just gonna pick a tool in the toolbox. That is the vision that I have presented and which the Center Party stands for. As far as the investments in the transport plan are concerned and if we negotiate well enough, I would, of course, like us to be a few centre parties around the negotiating table. If Jens Holm agrees with me on this, he can put a good word for us in the next election movement so that future governments may have a little more center parties around the negotiating table.
i-47b596c3990e222c-595	Mr President, I would like to I have a better proposal for Magnus Ek and the Center Party: It's just that you read our budget movements. What we are doing is to fully finance a much faster expansion of the railways and to invest in a much more robust maintenance of the rail system that already exists. How can we do that? Among other things, we make the polluter pay. We think it is completely unreasonable that there should be long-distance convoys from southern Sweden to northern Sweden and from north to south. Sometimes they go empty back just because it's so incredibly cheap to drive trucks on our highways. We think it is perfectly reasonable for them to pay. Then we will have money for better rail maintenance, and we will also have money to build new rail. When the national infrastructure plan was up, we said very clearly that we should not build major motorways in the Stockholm area. There we felt a little lonely. We had hoped, for example, that the Center Party would help to say no to Bypass Stockholm for SEK 30 – 40 billion and to Tvärlänkning Södertörn for at least SEK 11 billion. Now they are also talking about Eastern connections for SEK 10 to 20 billion. That, Magnus Ek, is the money we need for the railroad. Isn't that right?
i-47b596c3990e222c-600	Mr President, I would like to I will willingly give Jens Holm the point that it is not the railways that I have the biggest problem with in the draft budget of the Left Party. It has to do with other things, such as the competitiveness of Swedish companies in other parts. In response to the last line of reasoning and what I suppose is a question – so if we think it's okay to invest in infrastructure projects in the Stockholm area – I know exactly what a problem it is for companies with bottlenecks around Stockholm. We know that we need to be able to transport goods efficiently. I will say that one of the major growth problems that we have in my home county of Östergötland and further in the industry in Småland is precisely that the infrastructure in Central Sweden is lagging behind. It's full on the main tracks. We can only take Scania, who needs to transport their cabins from the factory in Oskarshamn to the factory in Södertälje. It is a state-of-the-art company that competes worldwide but has an infrastructure that is essentially the same as in the 1960s. This is a real growth barrier for this type of company. If we take what Jens Holm wants to call truck convoys, we can consider whether the problem is that it is far too expensive to drive by rail, or whether the problem is that we do not actually have the capacity to put these transports on rail. That is what I mean when I talk about the smaller infrastructure investments: it is about building up the capacity of the bottlenecks that exist today, large and small, and ensuring that we get the main roads in place. You can work with both parts. I believe that this type of debate, in which we put one mode of transport against the other rather than thinking about how we actually improve the situation on the whole of the Swedish companies that build growth and jobs throughout the country, is a dead end.
i-47b596c3990e222c-607	Mr President, I would like to I have very strong memories linked to rail and train travel. When I was a child, we often traveled to our relatives in East Germany by train from Uddevalla and ferry from Trelleborg and Denmark. In East Germany some steam locomotives were still in operation at that time. I don't think I'll ever forget the smell of coal when the iron horse woke up and brought all the passengers with me. Although East Germany was a dictatorship, which I was not aware of as a child, I have many warm memories of that period of my life, and I have always been fond of riding trains. However, this nerdy delight in the railways does not prevent me, as a historian, from finding that the railways are the great invention of the 19th century, and the great transport revolution of the 20th century is, above all, the car and the truck. At the same time, it is important to point out that rail still plays a major role in the proper functioning of the infrastructure system. The car and the truck have the great advantage of being flexible, but the railway has the great advantage of being able to move large quantities of goods and people in a relatively short time. However, this requires proper upgrading, renewal and maintenance of the railways. If we do not keep the system in order, we cannot take advantage of the advantages of rail compared to other modes of transport. A well-functioning railway can very well compete with the car and aircraft within shorter and longer distances. In order to manage maintenance in a good way, it is our firm opinion that it should also be handled through procurements. The fact that national maintenance will not result in better maintenance, but, on the contrary, will increase the risk of more expensive and worse maintenance. Mr President, I would like to It is not enough to rearrange the current track. We need to make greater investments and build new paths. At the same time, the government's unilateral focus on high-speed trains in southern Sweden risks blocking the investments that need to be made throughout the country in order for the railways to become better and more competitive. Norrbotniabanan, Ostkustbanan, Nordic Triangle Stockholm– Oslo– Göteborg– Copenhagen, south-eastern Sweden, Gothenburg– Landvetter– Borås and railway to Norvik harbour – all this risks freezing in case the government starts the unprofitable construction of high-speed trains in accordance with the Swedish negotiation concept. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's negotiation does not solve the three major problems of the Swedish railway, i.e. congestion in the commuter trains of the big cities, neglected maintenance and difficulties in receiving longer trains at Swedish stations. High-speed rail will crowd out more urgent efforts. We believe that the Swedish railways need strong investments to function and become more efficient, but the efforts should be balanced, well calculated and the right priority so that the resources are put where the social benefits and transport needs are greatest. High-speed rail is an expensive investment with low environmental and social benefits, and it will not benefit the whole country. It is also difficult to assess how much the project will cost. International experience from similar projects shows that these are considerably more expensive than expected. The government's management of high-speed rail is very remarkable given that it is the largest infrastructure project in decades. It is irresponsible if the government chooses to move forward and push through a decision on a high-speed track without using the four-step model. The four-stage model is well-established and aims to ensure that resources are used responsibly. The deviation from the four-stage model that has been made in the planning of high-speed rail means that this project has not been properly tested during the planning process. The government must therefore take a look at the basis for decisions on high-speed rail and start a completely new process in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. The Christian Democrats are behind the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment and recommendations, and we believe that the Government should commission the Swedish Transport Administration to carry out an analysis of the entire project. Mr President, I would like to Longer and heavier freight trains increase the competitiveness of trains through improved profitability and efficiency. The Swedish Transport Agency has conducted trials with traffic with up to 730 meters long freight trains in Sweden. This attempt shows that longer trains mean that the same amount of goods can be transported by fewer trains, which reduces transport costs and frees up capacity on the track. The railway system is thus less sensitive to interference as the number of trains in motion is reduced. Longer and heavier trains are also ways to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness linked to the heavy base industry. We therefore believe that it should be possible to operate longer and heavier freight trains. We have noted in recent years that the number of unauthorised people moving on railway tracks is increasing. This has caused major delays in rail traffic for both regional and long-distance trains. We therefore propose that the Swedish Transport Administration, in cooperation with the train operators, should develop an action plan to reduce the number of unauthorised people on the tracks and personal accidents on the tracks. Mr President, I would like to Public transport is an important part of the Swedish infrastructure. Well-functioning public transport makes everyday life easier for our citizens. At the same time, there are problems that we need to work with, such as the safety of stops, measures to stop those who do not plank up and thus impair the conditions for public transport, better quality in the transport service and opportunities to use waterways to create new attractive public transport routes. We also need to work towards better integration of ticketing systems and facilitate the use of different modes of transport in different parts of the journey in question. It must be possible to bring bicycles into public transport in order to create systems that encourage environmentally friendly mobility. Mr President, I would like to We support all our reservations, but for time winning, we intend to grant only reservation 1. Mr President, I would like to For travesting Cato: Moreover, I believe that the Government should approve Preemraff's application.
i-47b596c3990e222c-625	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by thanking all the staff who maintain rail and public transport in Sweden during these Corona times. A major effort is being made under tough conditions, where public transport is also making a major contribution to reducing the risk of people becoming infected on the way to work. We all hope that the spread of infection will be further reduced so that travel restrictions can be lifted in their entirety. Today, Mr President, we are debating the rail and public transport report. The railway and other public transport are a very important piece of the puzzle for Sweden to reach its transport and climate goals. We Liberals want to see further efforts on public transport in order to enable continued transfer from other modes of transport. Travelling by bus, tram, metro and commuter trains reduces emissions and reduces congestion on the roads. We also want to focus on the transitions between different modes of transport because it is the total time from door to door that is essential, not the time for a specific route. Two of the most important parameters for rail and public transport are its availability and punctuality. Total capacity and operation and maintenance play a crucial role here. In order to increase punctuality, bottlenecks need to be removed so that we have coherent lines and can make use of the capacity of the entire string. It has turned out that when the monopoly on railway maintenance was removed, the cost of maintenance was reduced by 12% while maintaining quality. We Liberals want to see continued competitive railway maintenance on state railways procured on market terms. At the same time, the Finnish Transport Agency must have the right skills to ensure procurement so that maintenance remains efficient and of high quality. Mr President, I would like to Operation, maintenance and new investments require competent staff. With the major investments made in the Swedish road and rail network, there is currently a lack of many professional competences. It is therefore important to invest in specialized training courses and to promote an attractive market for both Swedish and foreign companies in order to build an increased competence in railway maintenance and construction in Sweden over time. Liberals want to promote transport by longer and heavier trains in order to make more efficient use of spare capacity, reduce emissions and improve the competitiveness of transport-dependent industries. We want to see a national ticketing system in line with the current investigation's proposal that is competitively neutral and facilitates the choice to travel collectively, even in parts of the country that has not previously been visited. We also want to make it possible to travel across national borders within the Nordic countries. This is of course important for older and disabled people living close to national boundaries. We in the Liberals also want to review the possibility of putting ferry services to and from Gotland on an equal footing with roads and railways and including them in the national infrastructure. A year ago, the Liberals, together with several other parties, proposed an announcement to the government, which was supported by the Riksdag, that we want to see the four-step principle have an increased impact, that the socio-economic calculation models for prioritizing infrastructure investments are developed and, among other things, take greater account of freight transport, and that what should govern is how to achieve the highest possible level of accessibility and mobility, regardless of the type of traffic. I believe that the Swedish National Audit Office's report on high-speed rail, which deals with the preparation of the data and the process itself for high-speed rail, clearly highlights the problem raised by Parliament's announcement last year. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of developing detailed socio-economic calculations at an earlier stage in order to facilitate the priority of the investment process with greater precision. However, we agree with the Swedish National Audit Office that the current data for high-speed trains are of good quality. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of good relations for the development of labour market regions and for good economic growth. Both the labour market regions of Storstockholm and western Skåne have been able to expand significantly in recent years, thanks to investments in infrastructure. Unfortunately, the West Swedish labour market region and the West Swedish infrastructure have not developed as strongly. This is most clearly illustrated by the fact that the largest capacity shortage in the entire Swedish rail network is located on the Alingsås – Gothenburg route, which severely restricts commuter traffic, long-distance trains to Stockholm and freight transport. The lack of infrastructure in West Sweden is a problem for the whole country in terms of both goods linked to Gothenburg harbour and passenger traffic, which in recent years has seen only a marginal increase in the number of passengers due to the lack of capacity. I would also like to point out that the Alingsås – Gothenburg section, Sweden's largest capacity shortage in the existing rail network, is not included in the current national plan until 2029. We need to correct this in view of the national importance of the route. In this context, I would also like to highlight the need for cross-border infrastructure. The European Commission has proposed that 2021 be the year of rail transport. In this context, Sweden should express the importance of good rail connections to Norway, Finland and Denmark. Sweden and its neighbouring countries have large exports of goods that are important from a nutritional and climate point of view for the whole of Europe, and the railways offer good transport opportunities for such goods. I am thinking mainly of the Copenhagen– Gothenburg– Oslo sections and between Stockholm and the Finnish border. Inland runways also have the potential to make a significant contribution in the near future, as there is a lack of capacity on other routes. Liberals want to see an expansion of our infrastructure based on socio-economic calculations paired with a regional development perspective. Infrastructure is important for freight transport, the provision of skills and people's ability to travel wherever they are in the country. Mr President, I would like to I support all our reservations, but I only ask for reservation No 2 on high-speed trains.
i-47b596c3990e222c-645	Mr President, I would like to I understand from the debate that the Liberals share in many parts the concerns expressed by the Christian Democrats over high-speed trains regarding displacement, low environmental benefits, high costs and also the criticisms made by the National Audit Office. My question is whether the Liberals will work within the January settlement to take a turn in accordance with the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office.
i-47b596c3990e222c-647	Mr President, I would like to In the January agreement there are different wordings about this. One of the wordings that we think is important in this context is that, with high-speed trains dealing with very many billions, over 200, and that construction will extend over many terms of office, it is important and essential that we have a broad agreement on the financing of high-speed trains. It must not be the case that a decision is taken on a term of office and another decision on the next term of office. When it comes to these mega-projects, one must call them, it is important that the decisions are well anchored here in Parliament.
i-47b596c3990e222c-649	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer in that part. But I don't feel that I got a full answer, but the answer was that broad deals are important. Of course, we Christian Democrats share this view. Back to my rather specific question: Do the Liberals intend to work within the January settlement so that there will be as broad a deal as possible, where a move is taken? There is a need for a debate on this issue, in our view.
i-47b596c3990e222c-651	Mr President, I would like to Yes, in the discussions that we have and that we have also gone out with the public, it is precisely this answer I give – that in the case of such mega-projects we need to have a good foundation here in Parliament because you cannot switch over the terms of office and say that there will be a start and a stop all the time. There is one thing that we are pushing in these discussions.
i-47b596c3990e222c-652	Mr President, I would like to Helena Gellerman managed with the piece to talk well about and want more of large labour market regions and increased investments on rail, in particular to and from Gothenburg, but at the same time oppose the investments on high-speed roads. I find this very strange, as the high-speed rail lines would be the largest investment in the railway in Sweden in over 100 years and also free up an enormous amount of capacity on the existing tracks. This would not only allow us to get out on the continent quickly if we so wished or if we could form these labour market regions. We could also create a variety of new regional routes that would have capacity. I really do not understand the position of Liberals here. Helena Gellerman is happy to develop it further, because I do not think we were given a clear answer as to where the Liberals are actually on the subject. I would also like to ask Helena Gellerman about railway maintenance. Liberals want efficient railway maintenance. Then I'd like to ask Helena Gellerman if she thinks it's socio-economically effective with tendering procedures where there's only one bidder or where there's two but the loser is right who won and we're losing a lot of time to appeal in court – plus that a lot of money might be paid to the one who sued, that is, the one who didn't get the contract. In short, do we really have a socio-economically effective maintenance of the railways today?
i-47b596c3990e222c-655	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! As far as high-speed roads are concerned, I mentioned in my speech that the Liberals are in favour of them and of new main roads around Sweden. I mentioned a number of different parts of Sweden. We want you to look at the whole of Sweden when it comes to where to invest. There are important businesses, and people need to travel in many different parts of Sweden – not just between our three major cities. As far as funding is concerned, it is important, as I said in the last shift, that we have a broad basis for such a huge project. Many other projects can be accommodated within a national plan, but this will be included in maybe six, seven or eight national plans. This means that we need to have a broad base so that it does not differ depending on which government is in power during the current term of office. As far as rail maintenance is concerned, I think the Left Party has an interesting approach. What matters when it comes to the quality of maintenance is the competence of the purchaser. It's very important; I have personal experience of this from the time I worked at Volvo and we outsourced things. You really need more skills internally when you procure something. That is why I believe that we must strengthen the competence of the Finnish Transport Administration, not reduce the opportunities for competition when it comes to procurement.
i-47b596c3990e222c-658	Mr President, I would like to I asked Helena Gellerman about the maintenance because the government investigation in which Helena Gellerman's own party has been involved in the drafting of additional directives states that the opening up of competition has not led to the efficiency and innovation that has been reflected. Then I think that one should perhaps look a little self-critically at the opening-up of competition, the privatisation, of railway maintenance in Sweden. If we look out in Europe, we see that country after country actually withdraws maintenance on its own account because it is considered to have been unsuccessful. It is not always possible to build markets. In this case, I think that Mr Gellerman's response is a little revealing precisely this because it is so important that the purchaser has full insight into what is being procured. But if Trafikverket does not have the main responsibility and can be involved in the maintenance of its own facility, you obviously lose control of and knowledge of its own facility. It is as if we were to decide that Volvo is not allowed to run the ongoing maintenance of its factories in Torslanda, but must be outsourced. Every little nut to screw in has to be procured. It is quite clear that after a while Volvo would lose that competence. When it comes to high-speed roads, I think it is interesting to see the Liberals' attitude that they want to see to the whole of Sweden. The high-speed routes were first included in the major project of the bourgeois government, Sweden's negotiation, where the Liberals were involved. I think there is a blind spot in the Liberals when you do not see the big profit with the tracks, namely that they relieve capacity from existing tracks, and that most of the travel does not take place between the ends without people being able to get off in Linköping, Norrköping, Jönköping and so on.
i-47b596c3990e222c-661	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for further questions, Jens Holm! With regard to Sweden's negotiations and the 2014 decisions, I am indirectly addressing this in my speech. I agree with the Swedish National Audit Office that the early forecasts of the cost development for the development of new main roads were too bad. If 2008/ 09 had already known that this might cost 300 billion, other decisions might have been taken. What I mean in my speech is to learn from what we have done in the face of other efforts. When it comes to maintenance, we have stressed in the discussions that we think it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration has the opportunity to manage maintenance on a few small distances in order to be able to test new things for itself. However, the absolute majority should be subject to competitive procurement. When it comes to innovations, which I have heard Jens Holm mention repeatedly in his questions, companies cannot work on a voluntary basis if the Swedish Transport Administration in its procurements does not allow for innovations in terms of cost when maintenance is developed. If you want development and innovation in maintenance, you also have to pay for that development.
i-47b596c3990e222c-664	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start in the same spirit as the previous speaker and extend my sincere thanks to all public transport employees. You have ensured that it has been possible for those who have had to go to work to do so during the worst spread of infection in Sweden. Many thanks for this effort! During the period of transmission, public transport has suffered enormous financial losses. Many of us who have been on public transport were not allowed to do so but had to stay home. This has led us, from the government and the cooperation parties, to direct 3 billion to public transport in order to make it easier after the financial losses caused by the coronapndemine in public transport. At the same time, Mr President, we must raise our eyes a little. What do we need to do when the pandemic is gone? We have now on the table in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, among other things, an investigation into a ticketing system throughout the country, which we must proceed with in order to create new conditions for travelling collectively and to bring passengers back to public transport. Here I can only agree with Magnus Ek, who previously mentioned the unequal perspective when it comes to who travels collectively. Many men sit in cars while women travel collectively. We need to work to get it more equal and get more men in public transport – on buses, commuter trains and trains between municipalities. Today, Mr President, we are also debating questions about the railways. As we can see, we Members of Parliament are very good at highlighting railway routes. I am no worse, Mr President. I can, for example – for many of us have been in our own areas, where we live – mention dear Norrland. The business community invests SEK 400 billion in investments throughout Norrland. It takes only a quarter of this to get double tracks from Gävle up to Härnösand and improve up to Uusimaa, and for the new Norrbotnia track. From Gävle all the way up to Luleå, only a quarter of this money is required – in round throws 100 billion to build a good railway line along the coast of Norrland. I must also say that a fourth track between Stockholm and Uppsala, which is in the national plan, will create new opportunities. Or for that matter, a fourth course between Malmö and Lund. It is also important, not only for that part of the country, but also perhaps for Ikea's headquarters. It is important that we look further away than just where we live. For example, investments in new main courses are extremely important for Sweden. We cannot just see our own labour market areas. In fact, we are not regional politicians but representatives of the country. We need to see what opportunities we can create to provide better conditions for the country's development. And new main courses are needed. That's why the Minister for Infrastructure invited me to talk about this. Unfortunately, some parties have declined. I would like to emphasise proudly that we have increased the allocation for rail maintenance in the national plan by 47%. We have raised the ceiling of the national plan by 100 billion. And, above all, we have given priority to railways. Now, during Coronatimes, as several have commented in the debate, we have granted an additional 700 million for maintenance. We'll bet 300 million on some train and more. What I would like to point out is that the number of passengers has increased every year, but the number of tonnes of goods by rail has not increased to the same extent. It is partly about the fact that we have not been allowed to move goods in the way we would have liked. What are the reasons for this? Some of this has been mentioned earlier in the debate. But just how competitive are the railways or trains? You can look at the truck business. Today, a truck can almost drive itself. And not only that, but soon four or five trucks will be driven by the same truck driver. And then they warn each other if there's a slip along the way. It looks almost like a train on the road, especially if you electrify roads. They are very competitive, and even if we eliminate unfair competition with low wages and so on, the truck is still competitive. If you want to send something to Sweden on the lake – let's say blueberries from Chile – you can connect the container to the net and keep track of the temperature in it, so that after the debate we can go to Munkbrohallen and buy fresh blueberries from Chile. But what about the train? The train has brakes – an invention from the early 1900s. How many freight trains are connected to the network? That's not many. There is an enormous development potential here to enable the train to become competitive both against the truck with its technological head start and against other modes of transport, for example in order to complement shipping, even if shipping itself, as I mentioned, is not a competitor. Mr President, I would like to The question is how much we can do. We have competence to lift, and we have done a lot. When parts of the country are connected, a community area is connected. We have increased the number of places in higher education institutions and universities. Why? Because we need more engineers than influencers in order to achieve better opportunities for the railways. We need more polytechnic places, and we have also increased them. Why? In order to be able to build, maintain and operate railways. That's where the whole community is connected. Rail is part of society, and if we do not invest in rail, we do not invest in society. And we also need to invest in other parts in order for the railways to be useful.
i-47b596c3990e222c-680	Mr President, I would like to Moderates and Social Democrats have a common view that railway maintenance is important, as is the need for more and better maintenance to ensure that trains can keep their timetables. According to a report by VTI, competition through railway maintenance procurement has reduced maintenance costs by 12% while maintaining quality. In addition, Trafikverket has pointed out that renationalising maintenance will lead to cost increases. My question to the honourable Member is: why is it so important that the Finnish Transport Administration itself performs the maintenance work? Do the Social Democrats not believe in VTI and the Swedish Transport Administration when they both say that this is going to be both more expensive and worse?
i-47b596c3990e222c-683	Mr President, I would like to I will very much explain why we should renationalise this. We will not renationalise everything, but only some. Of the 34 agreements that exist, we will get eight under the control of the Finnish Transport Administration. Why? Yes, it is, as Helena Gellerman pointed out, because the Finnish Transport Administration lacks competence. You don't have the skills to procure. It's just like any company. If you need to build houses, you need timber, and what kind of timber should you procure? Should you go to the one to procure and ask which timber to use? It is not possible to run a company on such premises. You can't run anything without skills. We have responsibilities here. Here we have Sweden AB, and we in this House are responsible for ensuring that our authorities have the expertise to get the most out of the tax money we put into them. Therefore, it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration has the competence to know what you can and should order, so that you get the most out of the money. It is both a matter of concern for the taxpayer and of getting the most out of the railways.
i-47b596c3990e222c-686	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Jasenko, for your answer. I can agree that it is obvious that there is a lack of competence at the Swedish Transport Administration. This can be seen both in Alexandersson's investigation and in the later investigation that has come now. But having that competence in-house does not automatically mean that you must also perform maintenance work yourself. I find it hard to see that it is absolutely necessary. When VTI says in its report that it gets more expensive and also worse, I feel that it is a risk that we should not take. It is more important that the Finnish Transport Administration in that situation actually acquire that competence, so that they can make proper procurements, and also get better track of how the facilities are actually doing? Alexandersson's investigation clearly shows that you lack that knowledge. We agree that we need more and better railway maintenance. Wouldn't that have been a more reasonable starting point for an investigation than having completely ideologically coloured investigative directives to an investigator who also has a strong connection with the Social Democratic Party? Would it not have been more reasonable instead to give an investigator an open mandate to look at how we get better maintenance of rail for the same money or preferably less money, so that we get more efficient maintenance? Would that not have been a more reasonable order than to have a highly ideologically coloured investigation with the investigative directives given to this investigation?
i-47b596c3990e222c-689	Mr President, I would like to I can say this one more time: for us, it is very important that the authority gets the conditions it needs to be able to do as good a job as possible, so that we get as much maintenance as possible for the money we spend. Mr President, I would like to After all, we have all stated here in the speaker's chair that there is no infinite amount of money. We have to save the money. That is why it is important that the authority is given the right conditions so that we get as much maintenance of the railways as possible for the money we spend. That is why we are putting forward this proposal, and that is why we want the agency's in-house to have an opportunity for skills that can be used in procurement.
i-47b596c3990e222c-691	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I regret that the Minister for Infrastructure is not here today. It would have been interesting if he had been here, but I hope that Mr Jasenko will be able to answer the questions. I would like to clarify something about the historic commitment of 47%. I have before me a report from the parliamentary investigation service called 2014:275. It notes that there was a higher rate of investment in the rail network in 2008-2012 than it is today, and maintenance was at roughly the same level in 2013 and 2014 as it is today. It may be good to have included in the debate. We belong here to lead if the efficiency rate is 11%, if everything is in private direction versus what it was like before. But what is completely missing is that there has been an extremely high degree of efficiency in the rail sector and maintenance over many years. Had we continued to have it in our own direction, we would probably have seen an even better development, I think, in terms of efficiency. But now we are discussing a state report on renationalising part of maintenance, and I have a question for Mr Jasenko. You need support to get through the investigation proposal. That is a great deal of the proposals that we do not support. You do not have your Center Party on the train, and you do not have the Liberals with you, it seems. You do not have with you the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. Do the Social Democrats intend to invite several parties to discuss the report and whether it should be taken as it is, or are you just going to run your own race? That's my question.
i-47b596c3990e222c-696	Mr President, I would like to As regards the last question, it is not Members of Parliament who invite talks, but it is the government that invites them to talk. The honourable Member may put the question to the Minister. As far as 47% is concerned, I can say that I compared. I said that we have raised the ceiling of the national plan by 100 billion in relation to what the national plan contained in 2014 – 2018. As a result, we have increased rail maintenance by 47 per cent in relation to the national plan 2014– 2018. That is what I referred to, Mr President.
i-47b596c3990e222c-698	Mr President, I would like to I do not object to the figures as such. They're right, because it would've sunk. What I am opposed to is the constant description on the part of the Social Democrats: that it is a historic effort. It's not. That was a rather casual answer, I think. Since the Minister for Infrastructure is not here, I assume that Mr Jasenko will be the one to speak for the governance. After all, it is the Social Democrats who hold the government power together with the Green Party. I might have expected a little better answer. In the report on the future of rail maintenance, you can read a number of things, which I mentioned in my speech, such as the classification of different contracts and how to take them over. You can then select eight pieces for basic maintenance and three technology contracts, for example. It is not a very good division, we believe. In addition, you have completely missed southern Sweden. In the debate here I think that Jens Holm has been the one who has had the best understanding of how it works. You don't have competence in Trafikverket, because you have spent all maintenance on the private. Those who sit on skills are the private entrepreneurs, but those who are going to write about maintenance lack that competence. You become very dependent on consultants. In order to remedy this, all areas in Sweden where the Swedish Transport Administration operates and procures, of course, maintenance in its own direction. And this is not part of this investigation. In fact, I am going to put the question again to Mr Jasenko: do you intend to work to have talks about this investigation, or do you intend to just run your own race and hope that it will go through as it is written?
i-47b596c3990e222c-704	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that we will be holding discussions on the investigation. We've got a January deal at the bottom that we're working on. We will proceed with the investigation, because, as I said, this is very important. It is about the Authority's ability to make the necessary procurements so that we can get the most out of the money we invest in railway maintenance. This is the case whether it is historical bets or not. We need to get the most out of every penny we invest in railway maintenance, and we will fight for that.
i-47b596c3990e222c-705	Mr President, I would like to When I listened to the honourable Member's speech, there were a couple of things that I reflected a little bit on. One was the reference to the national plan. I think it is very good to refer to it. However, there is one small problem. The current national plan is due to expire, and there are several important projects in which only half of the funding is actually involved. The very idea of the national plan, which is twelve years old, is that it should roll in four-year cycles. That's the bike we're in. The catch is that the next plan, which should be there for debate, is obviously in some drawer somewhere. The second thing I reflected on in the speech was that the government had invited people to talk about high-speed trains. I want to be a little careful and say that such an invitation has never come. On the other hand, there are many of us who would have liked to have talked about rail and about our future infrastructure. What has happened, however, is that there has been an invitation for talks regarding the financing of Sweden's negotiations. There are several parties who have said that we have rejected this project, because we do not see the environmental benefits. We do not see that it is economically viable. Nor do we see that it solves the problems that exist. Then it was not so convenient to go there, I was about to say. Then I come to my two questions: Are the government parties prepared to reconsider the project with the Swedish negotiation? Are you prepared to seriously invite a discussion on future rail initiatives? There are large and important projects on which we could probably find agreement. I now come to the second question, which was also highlighted. It concerns the national plan. When will the new revision come to our table so that we can discuss it for real?
i-47b596c3990e222c-711	Mr President, I would like to I have to start with the conversation. If you are genuinely interested in something, Mr President – if you are genuinely interested in increasing capacity in southern Sweden and if you are genuinely interested in creating better conditions for the railways – I think it takes a lot more than just saying: We do not like the title of the invitation, so it will be goodbye! At least in my world it is. We may have different views on this, but I think that if you are interested, you will come forward and make your views known if you still want to sit at the round table and discuss a matter. But that's my opinion, of course, so let's not argue about that. The second question, Mr President, was about the national plan. If I remember correctly now, we will be in June 2020. I have been sitting here in Parliament since 2006, and I do not remember once that we have had the national plan on the table so early. 2021, yes, but 2020 is far too early to discuss this issue. However, it is an important issue, and I think it is good that the honourable Member, Magnus Jacobsson, should raise it.
i-47b596c3990e222c-715	Mr President, I would like to I must express my appreciation for Mr Jasenko's good rhetoric. I regard him as a very good debater, something I appreciate. But if we come back to the argument about an invitation, that ball is a little round. If you want people to come to a meeting, it might be appropriate to know: Where are the different parties? How do we put the question so that more people feel involved? Or should you ask the question in such a way that people from the beginning feel that they are a little invited with the hard elbow? I would have liked the government and government parties on such an important issue as our railways, our railway maintenance and our rail investments to be able to invite a little more with their open arms. On the other hand, it is such a tradition that we Christian Democrats have; we are happy to invite people with the open arms instead of with the elbow. So we would be glad if such an invitation came. As far as the national plan is concerned, that is correct. Now we have asked for the whole process and have had several discussions with both government officials and other parts of Sweden, for example regional officials, who note that previous years the process has been underway. They lack the work of redoing the national plan because it is not up and running. And they do not miss it for rhetorical reasons; they lack it because of facts. There are railway routes where half the route is included in the current plane. There's a lock in Trollhättan where half the lock is in. It is a fact that one cannot plan out in our various shipments because it is a bit tough at the moment. I will therefore come back to my two questions. Can you imagine inviting in with the open arms instead of with the elbow? And can you imagine coming back as soon as possible with a revision of the national plan?
i-47b596c3990e222c-721	Mr President, I would like to I don't know how to answer that. One of the things is that the minister who invited is Tomas Eneroth, and I have not encountered so many people in this elongated country who think he is an elbow person. He's an open-minded person who invites open-minded conversations. I therefore do not really know how to formulate myself beyond what I have said in the previous debate. I hope that where there is genuine interest, there is also the opportunity to come to the table and take the call. Where there's the heart, there's the tail room-- excuse me for using that proverb, but I think that's the way it is! The national plan is under way, so we will meet in the speaker's seat several times before the elections on this national plan. I would just like to point out that there is nothing happening precisely in this national plan that we do not have entire projects funded. That is often the case, and that is why this is done every four years. It must be possible to find new funding and new opportunities to further develop. After all, we have so many infrastructure challenges in this country.
i-47b596c3990e222c-725	Mr President, I would like to There are two points I would like to make with Mr Jasenko. The first concerns the discussion that was held here earlier on railway maintenance. I would like to ask Omanovic whether the Social Democrats and the Government are behind the proposal that has come from the investigator that the Swedish Transport Administration should take over eight contracts. That is how I interpreted Omanovic's answer to the previous questions and, to my knowledge, the investigation has not even been sent out for a consultation round. We in the Left Party think the investigation is half a measure, but if it is something it says, it is clear that the opening up of competition and the liberalisation of railway maintenance in Sweden has not worked well. The second thing I would like to do is to spin on a little bit on the previous line about the national plan. Since the Social Democrats are talking about the national plan, it sounds like now investment in rail is really rolling out. Omanovic himself raised the question of the double track along the Norrland coast from Gävle up to Härnösand, Norrbotniabanan, which will go from Umeå to Luleå and the four track between Stockholm and Uppsala. You could add the midway from Sundsvall, Ånge and Östersund, which needs to be upgraded significantly. The problem with all these very important investments is that they are the last in the national plan. They are far behind; they can begin at the earliest in 2024. As regards Norrbotniabanan and the route up to Luleå, we were told in the Transport Committee that it is not included in the national plan at all. It will not be ready by 2030. When, Omanovic, do we get a complete double track from Gävle up to Härnösand? When will the Norrbotnia Line be ready? When do we get four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala?
i-47b596c3990e222c-730	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the question of the investigation. It was Mr Stockhaus and I who had that shift in line, where I tried to explain that it was about the investigation and competitiveness and how much we could achieve in order to benefit from it. It was good that Jens Holm asked this question, because what I pointed out then was that in the investigation it is only about 8 contracts of the 34. It is therefore not a question of abolishing all maintenance, it is really a question of being able to acquire in-house knowledge in the Swedish Transport Administration and be able to make better procurements for the other contracts. That is what I meant, and I was actually referring to the investigation. I can tell you that I think this is a good thing. The Finnish Transport Agency needs the expertise to be able to procure the other parts – absolutely. With regard to the second part and the second question, Mr President, I could talk precisely about double tracks up to Härnösand not for 8 minutes, as I was given in speaking time, but for 888 minutes. So long I could talk about the importance of this! But as I said: Norrbotniabanan, Mittstråket, the fourth track between Stockholm and Uppsala – all that is important. There is a system in which they come into the national plan. You cannot rush through everything, but there are a number of decisions that also the Finnish Transport Administration and other actors need to make when preparing for the start of a project.
i-47b596c3990e222c-735	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Omanovic needs 888 minutes to give a clear message about when we get a double track Gävle – Härnösand, when Norrbotniabanan is completed all the way up to Luleå and when we get four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm. I raised these three very important investees because Omanovic himself raised them and was so proud that they were included in the plan. But when you look up the plan you first see a lot of motorway projects, and then you see these important rail projects at the end – and they don't even finish in this planning period. Let us be honest with the money and planning for which your government is actually responsible! Omanovic says you can't pick things in any way. But it is the government that owns this. Norrbotniabanan has courted the government and pointed out that they will have to fire a lot of staff who are currently working with Umeå – the Dåva route. They then want to continue and build up to Skellefteå, but when it comes to Skellefteå – Luleå there is no money and no planning within the existing national plan. I would therefore like to ask once again, Mr President: when will we get the double track Gävle-Härnösand? When will the Norrbotnia Line be completely completed? When do we get four tracks Uppsala – Stockholm?
i-47b596c3990e222c-739	Mr President, I would like to It seems here that Jens Holm has money and clear dates in his own budget. It sounds like he can build all this with his money. Actually, there isn't money today to do that. That is why we are inviting these talks, which we have discussed earlier here in the speaker's chair, to find broad agreements: how can we finance most of the projects in the country in order to speed up and bring forward Norrbotniabanan, Ostkustbanan with several projects? There's no money here and now to be able to do it. In addition, I have actually complained to the Swedish Transport Administration and been there. One should build double tracks 40 kilometers, as we have decided, north of Gävle, but in the meantime one should maintain the existing railway line. I thought that was a waste of money. Then I had to sit for an hour with Trafikverket and get explained what the train order looks like, what possibilities Trafikverket has to speed up some projects and what planning processes there are. It is not just to say: Let's build! In fact, there is a need to involve many others involved in the construction – except that we need clean money to build the railway. It is therefore not as simple as Jens Holm wants to make it as.
i-47b596c3990e222c-742	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that in this debate eight minutes seems to mean ten minutes. I can also say that I have rarely been involved in a debate where it has been so much in my fingers to ask for a reply. However, since I am speaking last, I have not had that opportunity. I should like to ask the remaining Members to ask for a reply instead of me. So today we are debating rail and public transport issues. These are two areas that are of the utmost importance for us to be able to cope with the transition to a fossil-free and sustainable society. The railway is the most energy-efficient mode of transport we have for transporting many people and very goods long distances. Public transport, both by rail and by road, helps us to reduce road traffic by car so that we can reduce CO2 emissions, congestion and noise. It is an extremely modern way to travel – both collectively and, of course, by train on the railway. At the same time, public transport and the railways face major challenges under the coronapandemine. Although rail travel has increased every year since 2005, for obvious reasons, developments in recent months have been negative. Weeks 13 – 23 passenger trains were 10 – 30 per cent lower than in 2019. In the last survey week, week 23, the difference was minus 21 per cent. It's Traffic Analysis that does these weekly follow-ups. Thankfully, freight traffic has managed relatively well during the pandemic. Since 13 June, the advice from travel within Sweden no longer applies. Thus, it is very possible that the train traveler recovers somewhat. At the same time, the Swedish Public Health Agency has made new recommendations that people should primarily walk, cycle or use other means of transport than public transport. The authority also recommends that you choose public transport where you can book a place. This, of course, represents a major challenge for our public transport operators. I think it is very important for public transport to be supported in order to meet the economic challenges of reduced travel. In addition to the general state subsidies directed to the regions, which can also be used for public transport, the government has also provided special support of 3 billion for public transport. In the Green Party, we are very keen that public transport should be well placed both to make it through the crisis and to be able to grow and strengthen after the coronapndemine. The spread of covid-19 has affected the whole of society. In addition to the crisis that it of course means that many people have become seriously ill and died, it has also had a severe impact on the economy. As we may now be moving towards a phase in which social investment will be required in order to achieve a recovery of the economy, it is important that we give a clear priority and build society strongly in order to reduce the risk of future crises. I am thinking primarily of the climate crisis. The Green Party wants to see a green recovery with investment in infrastructure that makes it easier for us to achieve our climate goals. By this we mean that there is a need for substantial investment in the railways. The Green Party wants to build new main rail lines for high-speed trains but also to upgrade and expand the railways throughout Sweden. Although the national plan adopted by the government in 2018 involved a historically large investment in the railways, it is not enough. Investment in new main routes is necessary to remedy the capacity shortfalls on existing routes, which affect both freight and passenger trains. We also need them to be able to move journeys from plane to train. This is an effort that strengthens the economy and gives jobs to many categories of occupations, ranging from engineers planning to those who are actually going to be out digging and building the railway. The report also deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of state planning for high-speed trains. I think it is important to remember that although the Swedish National Audit Office has made criticisms of the planning, it has not criticised the development of new high-speed rail lines. There has not been a position on this issue. In its letter, the Government has objectively responded to the criticisms made by the Swedish National Audit Office. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office does not think that the four-step principle has been sufficiently taken into account. It believes that, for example, increased rail charges could reduce demand for rail transport, which would in fact run counter to the government's aims and ambitions to increase both rail travel and freight traffic. The need for new main routes and increased capacity is well documented in several investigations. Within the January agreement, we agree that new high-speed main lines should be completed. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that the project has smugly started by three routes now in the national plan and will be started during the planning period. It is Ostlänken, it is Lund – Hässleholm and it is Gothenburg – Borås. These three projects are therefore part of the national plan, which was developed with the usual process during the last term of office. It can hardly be called sneaking. What is now needed is a clear decision to expand the whole and to finance the new main routes outside national planes. In this way, we can avoid this major and important investment crowding out other important investments in the railways. If the main lines were financed in a different way, 40 billion would be released in the current plan and, of course, there would be greater scope for other investments in the forthcoming national plan as well. There is a great need to expand the railways throughout the country and to renovate existing routes. The January agreement states that planning for the implementation of the Norrbotnia Line as a whole will be intensified. A well-functioning railway along the entire Norrland coast is important to connect the whole country and the towns and communities along the coast and to create reasonable travel times so that we reduce the need for air traffic. Even better linking the Nordic capitals such as Stockholm– Oslo and Stockholm–Gothenburg–Copenhagen and the cities in between could have a major positive impact on the climate. In order for the railways in the large strings to have a wide catchment area, investments are also needed in many regional routes where maintenance and capacity are lacking. Madam President, I would like For several decades the maintenance of the railway has been too low. In the current national plan, the government has increased its ambitions. A historical increase of 47 percent, 40 billion, places just over 150 billion on operation, maintenance and traffic management in the current plan. But it takes a lot of hard work for a long time to catch up with maintenance. The Green Party has a zero vision of train trouble, so it has been a priority for us to spend more on railway maintenance during this period when fewer trains have been driven, as the government has done with 720 million million. Although parts of this are, of course, intended to compensate for missing track charges during this time, I would still like to say that it is incredibly important that this investment is made. Otherwise you would actually have had to cut back on maintenance. It is important to invest in maintenance, not just for train passengers. Even those who transport goods need a reliable railway. In its freight transport strategy, the Government has mapped out the ambition to move goods from road to rail and shipping. Moving transport to more energy efficient modes of transport is an important measure from a climate perspective. Last week, the government presented a proposal for SEK 200 million for rail freight transport, known as environmental compensation. This is incredibly important in order to offset the costs between the traffic law. And last Friday came the Road Traffic Administration's road map for the transfer of freight from road to rail and shipping. It has been developed on the basis of the government mandates given to it in the freight transport strategy. This roadmap highlights several important measures that the Finnish Transport Agency itself can do to facilitate the transfer of goods, for example in the areas of knowledge and collaboration, as we know that the level of knowledge about how to transport goods on the railway is too low. Areas such as planning and incentives, capacity and punctuality and research and innovation are also highlighted. There is much that the Finnish Transport Administration can do itself, but it also needs to be decided here in the Riksdag on further measures. In particular, it is a question of balancing costs between modes of transport. I agree with what has been said here before that a distance-based toll, also known as mileage tax, would be needed in order for road traffic to also take a higher share of its climate costs. But there may also be a need for a broadened ecobonus, which has been investigated. What I find most interesting in the roadmap is that the Swedish Transport Administration highlights the trimming measures as extremely important. These are measures that are found in national planes but which are not named there, for there are only named objects that have a population of 100 million or above it. I can also note that a number of interesting studies have been carried out this spring at the initiative of the Green Party. They are about a national ticketing system, night trains to several European cities and the organisation of railway maintenance. There is now still an implementation of the proposals in these investigations. There are, of course, different challenges within these processes, but I can see that rail is the backbone of a sustainable transport system and the most energy-efficient and climate-smart way to transport many and many things. The Green Party wants to expand the railway with new main rail lines for high-speed trains and to upgrade and expand the railways throughout Sweden.
i-47b596c3990e222c-768	Madam President, I would like Building a high-speed railway is an investment with very high costs: 230 billion at best, and many estimates point to up to 400 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office has observed that the planning has been preceded by vague descriptions of the problems the investment will solve and that the socio-economic analysis prior to the planning has failed. The planning has also departed from the four-step principle that the Riksdag and the Government have decided and that alternative, cheaper measures should first be considered before investing in new infrastructure. Other instruments to address, for example, existing capacity problems on the rail network have not therefore been tested. The tasks given by the government to investigate the high-speed rail network have been too narrow, which explains the vague descriptions of problems. My question to Emma Berginger is whether she thinks it is reasonable that on such loose grounds and when the Swedish National Audit Office comes up with such strong criticism of the planning process, at least 230 billion and probably much more of the taxpayers' money is spent on this.
i-47b596c3990e222c-772	Madam President, I would like I think it is absolutely essential that we put in place the necessary means to expand the railways and thereby solve the capacity shortages that exist within the railways, and that we then also build for modern and fast trains. The Swedish National Audit Office has had many comments, but it can be seen that this is one of the projects preceded by a whole series of different investigations. The capacity investigation is not very clear that there is a lack of capacity that needs to be addressed. It can also be said that if, for example, we were to expand the railways in the existing route, we would need more rail, that is to say, a longer rail line. We know that we would also have enormous problems during the construction period, in order to combine the extension of tracks parallel to existing tracks is something that is extremely complex and causes a lot of confusion in traffic. I, who come from Skåne and who sees the ongoing railway construction between Malmö and Lund, can really attest to that. It is a project that is absolutely necessary and where there may not be any other possibility of extension, but here we have investigated thoroughly, through the initiative that the Moderates actually took with the Swedish construction that later came to be called the Swedish negotiation, which is the best and negotiated with the municipalities and actors that are along the route and are now waiting for a message. I have to say, Madam President, that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, who have dropped out of their own initiative, are failing these municipalities and regions which have been promised major investments in new infrastructure, which would lead to increased housing construction and increased work commuting within these labour market regions and create climate-smart and sustainable accessibility in these regions. There is therefore every reason to make these investments, Madam President.
i-47b596c3990e222c-777	Madam President, I would like I note that Emma Berginger did not answer the question of whether it is reasonable to take a decision that costs up to 400 billion when the Swedish National Audit Office comes up with such sharp criticism of the preparations for the decision. According to a number of researchers from VTI, Stockholm University, Örebro University and KTH Royal Institute of Technology who wrote at DN Debate in November, high-speed rails also take large climate policy resources from more effective climate action. In the debate article, they say that high-speed roads will not repay the climate debt from their actual construction until the end of this century. They claim that too little is said about the environmental costs of steel, concrete and road transport in order to support the construction of new runways. The environmental arguments for high-speed trains fall apart as a failure of the soufflé. Does Emma Berginger have any arguments for why we should invest in something that is socio-economically unprofitable, poorly investigated and also not sensible climate policy?
i-47b596c3990e222c-780	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the President-in-Office for giving my name correctly. I would like to emphasise that it is Berginger my name and nothing else. The 400 billion that Maria Stockhaus is talking about is probably a figure that she has taken from the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce's report. They have about stuck their finger up in the air and thought: This will probably be much more expensive. What number should we put on it? We're putting around 400 billion. That makes sense. They have not been based on the figures published in the Swedish Transport Administration's own studies on the project. There you talk about 230 billion, plus minus 30 billion. It is a project where you have really gone into depth with the project's climate impact, because there is a strong desire for it to have a positive climate impact. But of course it must also be taken into account that a large building of this kind has a negative climate impact during the construction period. The Finnish Transport Agency stated in its own reports that it takes between 5 and 35 years to pay back the climate cost. At Trafikverket, however, you are rather bad at assessing the transfer between modes. For example, the transfer from aircraft is severely underestimated. It has not been included that additional passengers who today might choose to take the flight from Kastrup to Arlanda in the future would instead take the train. Looking at the more climate-optimistic scenarios, the repayment period is significantly shorter. KTH Railways Group, researchers they too, have conducted an investigation, and they talk about that it is during ten years of repayment. And this is about a facility that will serve us and create climate benefits for over a hundred years. I think that's a very good bet. We know we should have reached net zero emissions by 2045. That is why we need to make decisive decisions today.
i-47b596c3990e222c-787	Madam President, I would like Just in time for this debate to begin, we received a positive message that the Land and Environment Court of Appeal considers it absolutely correct that Preemraf should be allowed to build on. This will lead to some effects affecting today's debate. Over time, of course, it will mean that we will have diesel or fuel that has better environmental performance than today's. But Lysekil is on a nose. This is where roads 161 and 162 are taken, which means that increased production will lead, above all, to increased truck transport. Will the Environmental Party, within its government cooperation, work to renovate Lysekilsbanan, Bohusbanan, the railway in Dalsland, the railway between Öxnered and Karlstad and the route down to Gothenburg harbour within the framework of the national plan that we are waiting for? Investments in rail in that area would mean that the industry, which is comparable to LKAB in Norrland, will be able to transport its goods in a more environmentally friendly way than today's trucks.
i-47b596c3990e222c-790	Madam President, I would like The environmental party's focus on our transport and transport policy and infrastructure policy aims to meet the high ambitions of the government in the Climate Act. There we aim to have net zero emissions in Sweden in 2045. This means that virtually all sectors must have moved towards zero. A very small proportion could therefore be taken care of through some form of CCS technology. That is our focus and ambition when we talk about investments in the different modes of transport. This also applies to our policy in general. Now the Green Party has been involved in deciding that it is the government that will make an assessment and a trial of Preemraff. It really starts today, with the government receiving the opinion of the Land and Environment Court. That test must take its course. If it were to be a yes, which means an increased burden on Swedish emissions from Preemraff, the climate targets we have are still there. This means that we must go further in the efforts made to reduce emissions from other activities and sectors, in order to meet our climate targets. Madam President, I would like Although it may be another debate, I would like to hear Magnus Jacobsson talk about how he thinks we can achieve our environmental and climate goals if we should face further challenges in terms of increased emissions.
i-47b596c3990e222c-794	Madam President, I would like We have reported it on a number of occasions – this would be done, for example, via electrification. But we still have some fuels that will have to be diesel for quite a long time. We hope that it will be environmentally friendly diesel in the form of forest raw materials. Then you have to be able to produce it. My main question was: Does the Green Party, at a yes, work to move as much as possible from truck to rail? If so, investment in that area is needed. I also noted that Emma Berginger mentioned in her speech that we should invest in the Nordic capitals. I think that's very positive. But the examples were Stockholm– Oslo and Stockholm– Gothenburg– Copenhagen. Then I'll come to my second question. What makes the Green Party not want to improve the Oslo– Gothenburg– Copenhagen route? It is only when we improve that distance that we make the Nordic triangle work. I have noticed on several occasions in this House that many people forget that on that particular route, Oslo–Gothenburg– Malmö– Copenhagen, there are 10 million people. It is the largest population centre in the Nordic region. But we never talk about it. It is always Stockholm – Gothenburg, Stockholm – Oslo or Stockholm – Copenhagen. It is great that we improve for those who live in Stockholm. We will let the whole country live, including Stockholm. But I am a little surprised that the Oslo – Gothenburg– Malmö– Copenhagen route was not highlighted in the speech.
i-47b596c3990e222c-799	Madam President, I would like I repeat, my name is Emma Berginger. Emma Berginger and the Green Party think that moving freight transport from truck to rail and shipping is a top priority. That is also the government's strategy. I note that there are various things we need to do in this area. I will also comment on the second question from Magnus Jacobsson on the Stockholm – Oslo route. I said earlier, in my speech – it is also well documented in my script – Oslo– Gothenburg– Copenhagen. I thought of that in particular because I had initially said that it was about the Nordic capital cities, and Gothenburg is not a capital city, but nevertheless an important city. So we think it is important to invest in the railways on all those strings. It is also extremely important to invest in the more regional routes so that we also have a more fine-meshed network of railways. Madam President, I would like I would like to say that it is extremely sad that the Christian Democrats have left the results of Sweden's negotiations and the high-speed railways behind them and that they are failing the municipalities and regions that have put their faith in the fact that it could be a major investment in the railways. Hopefully, those of us who are still standing up for the project can continue to run it, and perhaps the Christian Democrats and the Moderates can eventually return to the project and take the credit to carry out the most important infrastructure investment this century. As has already been said, building new main roads is not something that is done every year or even every planning period. It may take place every 200 years or at least every 150 years. That is precisely why it is important that we get the decisions that we need now. Then it is not good enough to refuse invitations to finance the new main roads.
i-47b596c3990e222c-805	Madam President, I would like This is not a debate on Preemraff, but if the government were to say yes to the expansion of Preemraff's refinery, it would mean at least a million tons of additional emissions into the atmosphere. Here the government has to choose between two ps, between Preem or the Paris Agreement. I very much hope that the government will choose the Paris Agreement. I didn't think the answers were very clear from Emma Berginger when she began to discuss whether we should say yes, etc. You have to be very clear here and put the climate first. Another important issue – and this is my reply to Emma Berginger – is that we have a fundamental problem in infrastructure planning. We have an infrastructure planning that is not based on our climate goals but on an expected increase in travel. Now the Climate Policy Council has said very clearly that the government must change so that we get an infrastructure planning based on the climate. Fortunately, the government has said that it is prepared to change how it plans infrastructure, so that it can start from our climate targets. I think the government says a lot of good things, but what worries me a little is that it takes a very long time. They investigate and prepare very much. That is why I would like to ask Emma Berginger: when will we get an infrastructure planning based on our climate goals?
i-47b596c3990e222c-809	Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of Preemraff, the Environment Party's focus is that we should meet the climate targets set by the government and in the Paris Agreement, which Sweden has been involved in and signed. Then the government has to test Preemraff on the basis of the environmental code. We in the Green Party have chosen to take part in pushing this issue to the government. Otherwise, we all know that we would have had a point today, and then Preemraff would have had an admissibility. As I said, we wanted to put the issue on the table of the government. I think it is far too early for reasoning on infrastructure development, I have to admit. I thought that question from a previous speaker was a little strange. But I am very happy that I was asked about forecasts for increased travel and targeting by Jens Holm. This is a very important issue for the Green Party. We don't want this forecast-based planning. We want a goal-driven planning where we look at what goals we want to achieve. We want to achieve climate targets, road safety targets and targets for a healthy transport system. It is therefore important that we move towards more targeted planning. There are, of course, different positions on this issue, as on many other issues. But our focus and ambition in the negotiations is to use target management as an important instrument for achieving what the transport system is to achieve, namely a better society for all of us. That's why it's very important that we get more goal management.
i-47b596c3990e222c-813	Madam President, I would like If Preemraff were to say that the government could have judged on this issue at once and not allowed it to go to the Land and Environment Court. This is a separate trail. If the government says no, there will be nothing, no matter what a court says. Actually, it's kind of special. I would have liked the government to have done this, but now it is what it is. I very much hope that the climate will be put first and that it will say no. My question was when we get an infrastructure planning based on our goals, exactly as Emma Berginger has described here. We are in complete agreement on this. What I care about is that we get it in the near future, so that we do not continue to build major motorways and down-prioritise public transport – rail, etcetera. That's what it still looks like. It's planned for a giant highway a few miles south of here, cross-connection Södertörn. There is also a strong lobbyism for us to build Eastern connections. This project is currently not included in the national plan, but officials at the Finnish Transport Administration seem to think so. They sit and plan for it and prevent housing expansion, jobs and other things. It is therefore important that the government puts its foot down and is very clear. I would like to know, for example, whether we will have an infrastructure policy based on our climate objectives during this term of office? A government party must be able to give such a message, I think.
i-47b596c3990e222c-817	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm seems to be very focused on the issue when things are going to happen. Those of us who have worked in politics for a while know that the question is often difficult to answer in politics, because it depends on so many different factors in negotiations and other matters. I note that we would need stronger environmental legislation. The government has presented a climate roadmap that was voted through here in Parliament last week. In this climate action plan, there is one point about us reviewing all legislation based on the climate law that we now have. That is why I also expect us to have clearer legislation that will enable us to have more clearly targeted planning, including in the area of infrastructure. But until then, of course, the Environment Party's ambition and direction, even in negotiations on each plan, is that we should move towards more goal management instead of forecasting. That is what we were pushing for the previous national plan as well. We will also have that ambition in this planning work. That is something that we are bringing forward. We are very grateful that more parties are raising this issue. This is something we must work on together, because it is a structure that is truly institutionalised in Infrastructure Sweden. This is how you do it – you look at the Swedish Transport Administration's forecasts, although we know that they tend to always overestimate the development of car traffic and underestimate the development of public transport. Rather, we must move towards planning for what we want to see in the future, instead of trying to plan for something, although we do not really know how it will be – thankfully, it has not been as shown by the Swedish Transport Administration's previous forecasts.
i-47b596c3990e222c-821	Madam President, I would like I support all of the Moderates' reservations, but I only ask for reservation 3. Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has put its finger on a problem that has been known for a long time: Sweden's level of self-sufficiency is low. To increase it, Swedish food producers need to have better conditions and become more competitive. In times of crisis, it becomes clear how important it is to secure Sweden's access to food. However, increased self-sufficiency requires just greater competitiveness and increased profitability. Regulatory simplification and reduced costs for Swedish food producers are important elements to achieve this. The government needs to deliver concrete tools to farmers around Sweden in order to be able to live up to the food strategy. In this context, it is important to highlight the role of the public. The public cannot make demands on production and then buy things that do not meet the requirements. Specific percentage targets for organic production, for example, may not be the right way forward, but clear requirements for the environment and animal husbandry in public procurement. The public must set an example, but must also live up to the rules and requirements you set yourself. Sweden has among Europe's highest meat control fees. This represents a clear competitive disadvantage. The Swedish Food Safety Agency needs to streamline its operations, but it also needs targeted support to reduce the fees. The Moderates therefore have a special effort in our budget to reduce the meat control fees for individual farmers, so that the fees are set at a level closer to those of European competitors. We must not risk the number of cattle being smaller than it is now. Among other things, it will have a negative impact on biodiversity. Sweden had at the turn of the year the lowest number of beef ever, and we are the only country in the EU where milk production is declining. Having among Europe's highest fees for meat control does not lay the foundations for good competitiveness. Swedish countryside also has problems with too large a wild boar strain. The stock has grown explosively in the last 20 years, causing problems for many farmers who have their crops destroyed. The incentives for wild boar hunting therefore need to be strengthened. It is good that the government has listened to the Moderates in allowing small-scale sale of wild boar meat. But the issue is still being investigated, and that is unlikely to be the reality of this hunting season, which is regrettable. The Moderates, as well as several other parties, believe that hunters should be allowed to sell wild boar meat directly to consumers, requiring that it is tested for Trichinella and that the hunter can present a test certificate. As, according to our proposal, hunters should only be allowed to sell directly to consumers, this will be small-scale sales, and the hunters concerned will be held directly responsible for the meat they sell. Furthermore, local restaurants and traders should be allowed to buy wild game meat directly from the hunter, according to the German model. It should be allowed provided that the meat is tested where necessary and that hunters wishing to sell directly to traders and restaurants on a smaller scale are registered with the municipality where the game is handled in order to allow simplified controls. It is simply time to review the regulatory framework for the long-term sustainable management of the wild boar stock through increased opportunities for the sale of wild boar meat. Madam President, I would like Simplifying everyday life for the country's entrepreneurs is part of the moderate spine. We are therefore in favour of more effective enforcement in the environmental field and more equal enforcement throughout the country. However, this ambition must be consistent with the exercise of public authority in a consistent and predictable manner. For this reason, we would like to emphasise that so-called test purchases under hidden identity, which are proposed to be allowed for chemical products and biotechnological organisms and goods, should only be allowed to be used in exceptional cases to verify compliance with the rules. It is a measure that should only be used when other options are exhausted. The Moderates also believe that it should be stated in the regulations that test purchases should only be used if there is an identified direct hazard that can be derived from a specific product or article. Test purchases should therefore not be allowed to be used because a particular product or group of products may pose a danger. The fact that public authorities work under hidden identity is a major departure from the principle that public authorities should work in open forms that are observable to citizens. There must therefore be well-developed control mechanisms in place to minimise the risk of incorrect use of the possibility by regulators. In conclusion: Swedish authority must be consistent and predictable. Test purchases under hidden identity should therefore only be used in exceptional cases to verify compliance with the rules. In the broader perspective, the competitiveness of Swedish food producers must be strengthened and the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden increased.
i-47b596c3990e222c-837	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 4. When it comes to the changes to the regulatory rules in the environmental code, we do not have a reservation. In general, we believe that they are appropriate, and the scope for Sweden at the time of transposition is not large. Nevertheless, we want to raise the finger of warning that EU cooperation is constantly leading to more regulation of society, businesses' activities and people's lives. Any regulation may be perceived as reasonably isolated. However, the sum of constant regulation of new areas and the extension and strengthening of rules can hamper business and the economy and make society and people free. When Europe is constantly moving towards more supranationality and regulation, it means that we have a different Union than it was in 1995 and a different Union in five years' time than it is today. In Germany today, the media are saying that it is okay to give subsidies and not loans to southern Europe because it makes sense in the more integrated Europe that we will have in the near future. The underlying idea is that money is more or less common in a Union that is increasingly similar to a nation. It's called solidarity. Madam President, I would like We therefore call on Swedes to follow the development of the Union. If you are in favour of today's Union, it is not certain that you will like the Union that exists in five years' time. Yes or no to the EU is perhaps an issue that will have greater relevance in the future. The remaining scope for Sweden to alleviate the supervisory bureaucracy and promote the functioning of the rule of law will be exploited by Swedish democrats. We will come back this autumn with more concrete proposals on how we in Sweden can make supervision work in order to at the same time curb regulatory breaches and promote competitiveness and development. Madam President, I would like African swine fever is a terrible disease affecting domestic pigs and wild boars. It leads to great suffering and risks hitting the pig industry hard if it comes to Sweden. It spreads rapidly in Europe and has sometimes made hope, like a hundred miles of hope when it came to Belgium. It was probably visiting workers from another part of Europe who spread it by throwing meat products from pigs into the wild. There are EU rules on information. The European Commission says that Member States should target their information efforts at those groups that pose the greatest risk of spreading the infection. Furthermore, there is a requirement for Member States to provide information on the risks of African swine fever along all major routes and control posts at the land border. Member States with the disease shall also organise and carry out regular public information campaigns. Finally, fresh meat and certain meat preparations and meat products shall be marked with a special health mark. However, there is no information aimed at the consumer, and the consequences of the spread of infection are great. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats have proposed that the government should act within the EU on the labelling of pig products from the countries where the disease is present today with information on what to avoid in order not to spread infection. This reduces the risk of someone spreading the infection to new countries because of ignorance. The committee believes that there is no need for an announcement because there is intensive work going on in this area. What is done are various information efforts through advertisements, web information, brochures and contacts with associations. Raising awareness and influencing human action is something that everyone – the Swedish Agriculture Agency, the Minister for Rural Development and the European Commission – highlights as central. That is precisely why we need labelling of the food itself. By definition, it reaches all persons who are at risk of spreading swine fever via food. Madam President, I would like I would also like to briefly mention how important it is that it is easier for hunters to get rid of wild boar meat in order to turn the problems that exist today with wild boar into opportunities. After previous announcements, the government has started the work. That's good. But there are still no measures to change attitudes towards hunting. In view of current trends in the harassment of hunters and farmers based on extremist ideas, such work is very important. We therefore maintain our reservation on this. Madam President, I would like Slaughterhouses and game handling establishments shall pay a fee to the Finnish Food Safety Agency for official controls. Sweden only had last year among Europe's highest meat control fees. This represents a clear competitive disadvantage for our Swedish farmers. Due to new EU rules, a new levy system for checks on slaughter was introduced at the turn of the year. The government budgeted 107 million to mitigate the effects on slaughterhouses and farmers. Nevertheless, the new system has led to a number of negative effects. The poultry industry has increased costs and slaughterhouses in smaller towns are at risk of being disadvantaged. It can strengthen the crayfish path for agriculture in smaller areas and thus lead to a continued reduction in food production in Sweden, contrary to what all parties have agreed through the food strategy. I would like to take this opportunity to mention that we in the Swedish Democrats put forward proposals for an extra 70 million in this area in our draft budget. The Swedish Food Safety Agency is now working to adjust the fee system and streamline slaughterhouse control. The Ministry of Industry is considering a new model for the fees for next year. That's a good thing. However, on 10 June, we recently received a reply from the Minister for Rural Development that no additional funds will be provided this year to help the poultry industry and slaughterhouses in smaller towns. There are therefore significant uncertainties as to how the Government intends to act in support of slaughterhouse control in 2021 and beyond. In other words, there is every reason for Parliament to make an announcement in this area. Targeted support is also needed in the future in order to reduce the fees for individual farmers and to be at a level that is closer to that of our European competitors and not higher.
i-47b596c3990e222c-855	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by calling for the approval of reservation 6. Madam President, I would like Thankfully, in this House we talk quite often about the value of Swedish food production, although sometimes one can get the impression that we only do so from the point of view of security of supply. Other times it sounds as if it is primarily about biodiversity. I would like to begin my speech by pressing on all the individual parts which together form a larger whole and which is why we in this Chamber should work to strengthen the conditions for Swedish food production. As my colleagues have already mentioned, it is of course important that we have a food supply that is in a state of crisis. We should know that even if we end up in a situation where world trade stops, or if we, God forbid, would end up in a war or another severe crisis, we should still be able to support the population. But what I think is closer to hand when we are not in such times of crisis is still the great values that should be evident to anyone who goes outside Swedish towns or cities. It is about the open landscapes, which are both a joy for those of us who live in this country and which attract tourists here from Europe and the whole world. It is about biodiversity, which we are both proud of and which builds up the landscape that attracts tourists and which delights us. It is about the growth that makes Swedish countryside not, although it has been seen about it so many times, is impoverished and continues to be a place where people want to build and live. For these reasons, we should strive to maintain, strengthen and develop Swedish food production. The fact that I believe that there is a value in politics promoting this is a fundamental reason why I once became involved in the Center movement. The fact that I believe that this is absolutely crucial both for people, for nature and for the future of Sweden is a major reason why I continue to go to work here in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. We in the Center Party want to strengthen individuals' ability to contribute to this but also to make conscious choices and sustainable choices when buying food. It is difficult for consumers today to make an informed choice when it comes to, for example, climate aspects of food. At the same time, we know that this is something that is being asked for more and more, not least by people my age. One should be able to know what impact the food has had even before it has ended up on your plate. In fact, three out of four consumers want to be able to choose food with a lower climate impact. I do not know what the fourth consumer wants to do, but I think the three are quite right. We in the Center Party therefore want to see a clear and mandatory climate labelling of food, much like the nutrition declarations that already exist to facilitate consumer choice. This climate label should cover both imported and domestically produced food, for frankly we know that this debate is often simplified into a fight between domestic and imported food. We will probably keep imported food in Sweden, but if Swedish food is to be able to assert itself, it is important to be able to see what impact it has had on the climate. We want emissions to be calculated from a life cycle perspective where emissions from transport and packaging are included, because this is something that often goes away. It is not just about what, for example, a cow has contributed to or how much my cucumbers have cost the climate. A crucial question is also what path they have taken to my plate. What have they contributed throughout production? Initially, products with the highest carbon footprint should be covered. We have no illusions that this will not be challenging to develop and ensure that it works as well as we might wish. However, by extension, more goods and services should also be eligible for this type of climate declaration. Madam President, I would like For the same reason, that we consumers should be able to make sustainable choices, the Center Party also wants to see that we change the label and make the least sustainable choice. It may seem like a rather small change, but if we are to reduce food waste – and we need to do that, because it is far too high today in Sweden – we know that there are two things we need to do above all, whether we are consumers, traders or making decisions about public food purchases: we need to make sure that we stop buying too much, and we need to use our common sense so that we do not throw away food that could be used. This change is precisely intended to steer towards it. Both traders and shoppers should be able to use our common sense before throwing food away. Similarly, we want to see the EU's "best-before-date" regulatory framework reviewed to reduce food waste. Madam President, I would like This has already been mentioned in this debate, but the number of wild boars in Sweden has become a major problem for agriculture, for forest owners and for traffic. Last year the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences estimated that the Swedish wild boar tribe caused 1.1 billion damage. In this House, not least this spring, when we have thrown amending budgets back and forth, we may be a little bit of a blinder. Maybe 1.1 billion doesn't sound like much. But when one stands out in reality and sees where these 1.1 billion disappear, namely in reduced yields and less forest growth, it is tangible money. It feels in my wallet as wild boar damage increases, but as a landowner and hopefully one day a farmer I can say that it feels almost as much in your soul when you stand and look at pastures that are used, claimed and grazed for generations where wild boars can overnight walk forward and destroy the values that have been built up for hundreds of years. We are not solving this through food policy alone, but it can be an important tool. One reason why hunting is not as large as it would have to be is that there is not enough provision for wild boar meat. It's tasty and antibiotic-free – you can take it from me if you don't know it yourself – but there are far too few people who take advantage of the opportunity to also eat this resource. The Center Party believes that we should work for measures that lead to increased demand for Swedish wild boar meat. We want to see it precisely as a resource to be used. To make this possible, simplified rules are needed to improve the possibility of obtaining game meat to the consumer, shops and restaurants. It is therefore gratifying that, together with the government parties and the Liberals, we have agreed on a draft regulatory framework that is fully in line with the proposals we have previously made here. It is a proposal that should help to simplify and bring wild boar meat to consumers and, in the long run, can also lead us to reduce the strain to sustainable levels. We are therefore not following up on those vision proposals, but putting it as a specific opinion in the report. However, we will continue to work until this is actually done. There are many other things that we would like to talk about, such as the supply of drinking water, which we know will become more of a problem in a country that has long been used to the abundance of water. Unfortunately, I now see that I have only one second left, so thank you for me.
i-47b596c3990e222c-879	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but in order to gain time at voting time, I am only in favour of reservation 10. In our transition to a more fossil-free and sustainable living, many say that it is three B's that have to change: the car, the steak and the behaviour. This, I would argue, is partly a truth with modification. Today, our Swedish agriculture is very sustainable, although there is obviously potential for improvement. If we were to stop eating our high-quality Swedish meat from Swedish farms, we would be doing our environment a disservice. In particular, the animals in our pastures are involved in and contribute to the biodiversity that we are seeking. The methane emissions for which our cows, among other things, are being used are certainly, if the President excuses, a fart in space compared with many other sources of emissions that really need to be dealt with. Although methane is a potent gas, it does not circulate around the atmosphere until it dissolves. When it comes to behaviour, we need to change our attitude, namely that we should buy Swedish meat in our stores. We, as consumers, can certainly improve there. However, it is more difficult to order the right dish at our restaurants. Therefore, we Christian Democrats believe that product origin requirements should be included in the menus for you to know what you are buying. As a consumer, you should have the opportunity to make an active choice and buy Swedish. Of course, you can always ask staff a question, but sometimes it can be perceived as cumbersome and you refrain for various reasons. We therefore believe that the menu should indicate the origin of the main ingredient in the dish, and it may have a decisive impact on how much and what residues you can be expected to consume and what the conditions look like for those who have actually produced the food. One example where there may be significant differences between producer countries is the use of antibiotics in meat production. Information on animal husbandry, working conditions and spraying levels also needs the consumer to know in order to make informed choices. Consumers who are served food in public activities, such as schools, health care and care, should also be informed about the origin of the food. Therefore, municipalities and regions should also indicate the country of origin on the menus of the meat raw materials used. In addition to compulsory origin labelling of meat and fish in restaurants, we therefore believe that large households and the food industry should also be subject to compulsory origin labelling. Madam President, I would like We do not know what food production looks like in 2030, either in Sweden or in the world, much less what form of production is most attractive or what products our consumers want. The Christian Democrats want to create opportunities for consumers to make informed choices to meet their own needs and those of the outside world. Consumers' demand and willingness to buy are very much in control of the food we now consume and which sell best. Policy should not force the consumer to make specific choices, but policy should ensure that information is available so that the consumer can choose. This can be done, for example, through clear and easily accessible information such as eco-labelling – for example the key hole – and origin labels, consumer information services, product information in stores and web-based information. This enables consumers and other stakeholders to make responsible and sustainable choices of products and services to switch to more sustainable lifestyles. But it is up to the consumer to make the choice; it is not for us politicians to choose for the consumer. Madam President, I would like Good origin and content labelling increases consumer power and increases the chances of making informed choices. Europe's countries have different animal welfare laws, and in most respects Sweden has stronger animal protection than the other countries. This, unfortunately, puts us at a disadvantage in European competition. Common rules on origin labelling can lead to increased demands for better animal welfare in Europe. That is why the Christian Democrats want the same rules on origin labelling to apply to meat from animals other than beef. The European Commission will use its opportunities for penalties against countries that violate animal welfare rules, which distorts competition in the internal market. Madam President, I would like When we had our debate earlier in the spring on the circular economy, I talked about the importance of reducing our food waste. Other speakers have also raised the issue. We should be able to help our shops so that they can process certain foods whose dates are coming out. I would like to take this opportunity to raise this issue here because it would just as well fit in with this report. Here, then, regulatory simplifications that the Riksdag can assume can reduce waste without, for that reason, compromising food safety. Allow stores to process food that is about to expire on date instead of discarding the food. If there's any place we can really change our behavior, this is it. It is not prohibited to smell and taste the food even if the best-before-date has passed. Madam President, I would like Here there will be a replay from all previous speakers. I'm now getting into wild meat. Wild game meat is a high-quality protein source with a very low climate footprint. A regulatory framework that facilitates small-scale processing and marketing of wild game meat is therefore important. In Sweden, the wild boar strain has grown explosively in the last 20 years, causing problems for many farmers who have their arable crops destroyed when wild boars bow for food. Now we can also see similar injuries due to the dovhjort's advance. In Sweden it is estimated that there are 200 000 – 300 000 wild boars. Probably the tribe will continue to increase and spread. The high rate of reproduction of wild boars means that a local population can be doubled annually under favourable conditions. Thanks to the rate of reproduction of wild boars, we should get more meat on the market, but then it must pay off to fell wild boar and then sell the meat. It is gratifying that over the past year it has moved on and that we are now seeing simplifications in the field of hunting and game handling, as suggested in the Swedish Food Safety Agency's report, which was presented just before Christmas. Previously, we have imported large quantities of wild boar meat in Sweden, including from Germany and Poland equivalent to 70 000 pigs. But we have not been able to sell wild boar meat from Sweden to the same extent because it has been seen by the Swedish Food Administration as a foreign meat. What, then, is wild boar meat from the continent if Swedish wild boar meat is considered foreign? We now hope that the four authorities who have been asked to come up with proposals for simplified management will listen to the demands that have been made and that they will soon be taken up. Unfortunately, it seems that the authorities are taking a little too much time. As we heard earlier, it does not look like we are being told this year. Finally, Madam President, I am making a three-step leap into the world of sport. In recent years, the use of dietary supplements, including sports and dieting products, has led to a dozen doping cases in Swedish sports. The presence of doping-class substances in food supplements is just one example of different types of drug-like and potentially harmful substances that can be included in food supplements. During the autumn of 2010, the City of Malmö presented the report Food Control of Supplements in Health Food Stores, etc. The result was disappointing. 21 of the 85 supplements examined were to be considered as medicinal products and should therefore never have been marketed and sold as food supplements. Food supplements are defined as food, and according to current practice, it is up to each municipality, not the Finnish Food Authority, to supervise and decide on any marketing bids for food supplements. This may mean that all Swedish municipalities must make the same decision before a product can be completely stopped. It is an unreasonable bureaucracy which means that illegal products may be available in the neighbouring municipality. If the Swedish Food Safety Agency were to have a central power to decide on the marketing bids for health-injurious food supplements in the case of products that are nationally available, we could reduce supply more effectively. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has previously stressed that a national function for monitoring e-commerce with a focus on food supplements sales should be established, but it does not seem to have become a reality yet. A further way to improve the regulation of food supplements would be if manufacturers and distributors of food supplements had an obligation to notify their products to the Swedish Food Administration before they reach the market. The best thing, however, is to eat a varied diet of high quality food; so eat Swedish, eat season and eat up!
i-47b596c3990e222c-902	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Liberals' reservation No 5 on consumer information concerning fish. Within the framework of the January Agreement, the Liberals have agreed with the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party on a number of measures to develop sustainable fisheries. In addition to what is being implemented as a result of the January agreement, it is important for the Liberals that the consumer can contribute to a more sustainable fisheries and aquaculture by making informed choices when buying fish and shellfish. That is why Liberals want clear and simple labelling that shows that fishing is conducted in a sustainable manner in terms of fish stocks and climate impact. Madam President, I would like The issue of wild boar has been raised in the debate by several speakers, and I will also dwell on the issue that actually affects many citizens, including those who use land and manage forests. The other night I had the pleasure of getting a guided tour of what it might look like on Södertörn when wild boars dive out at dusk. While it is powerful to see the animals out in the meadows, I can understand those who use the land, namely that they pose great challenges. When it comes to handling and hunting wild boars, many measures are needed. The government parties, together with the Liberals and the Center Party, have also worked intensively to produce more measures. The Parliament has repeatedly pointed out that the rules must be simplified in order to facilitate the marketing of wild game meat. It is good that there is broad consensus in Parliament on these issues. The supply of wild game meat to private individuals, shops and restaurants should be facilitated. At the same time, it is important that the regulatory framework is designed so that game products that reach the consumer have to maintain an equivalent level of food safety regardless of the means of distribution. As mentioned earlier, in December 2019 the Swedish Food Safety Agency reported on the government commission on simplified procedures for disposal of Swedish wild boar meat in the report Disposal of Swedish wild boar meat. Traceability is important and it is important that the administrative burden is low. In the 2020 budget, SEK 13 million was allocated to the Swedish Board of Agriculture for the implementation of a wild boar package in 2020. For 2021 – 2025, SEK 9 million is calculated annually for the measure. In April 2020, the Government decided on a number of missions to different authorities to implement measures in the wild boar package within the framework of the Food Strategy. In 2020, work will also be supported to further develop the disease control programme Infectious herd pig. The aim is to strengthen the general disease protection of domestic pig herds with a particular focus on protection against African swine fever, as has also been mentioned here. These are incredibly important issues. During 2021-2025, work will continue to develop the disease control programme Infectious herd pig. How we are to protect domestic pigs, as we heard earlier in the debate, is an issue that affects many European countries. The Swedish Food Authority has also received a number of assignments for 2020 – 2022 within the framework of the wild boar package. Among other things, proposals will be made for a system for the management of subsidies for wild boars for trichinae analysis, caesium analysis and the management of hazardous waste. We in the Liberals believe that it is important to keep track of the wild boar strain in order to prevent and ensure that we also have healthy domestic animals. That connection is incredibly important. Madam President, I would like The Government has commissioned SVA to investigate the conditions for creating a single digital system for traceability of wild boar meat within the framework of the food strategy. The digital system shall ensure that traceability is maintained for each shot boar, from hunter to consumer. There are strong reasons to ensure that consumers have adequate information. This means that consumers will appreciate the meat a great deal more. A final report of the assignment and a financial report shall be submitted to the Government and the Swedish Agency for Growth. Regional management plans shall have clear regional objectives for wild boar management. The County Administrative Board of Kronoberg County shall coordinate the reporting of the management plans to the Government by 31 January 2022. The County Administrative Board of Kronoberg County will work to ensure that hunters who want to deliver small quantities of wild boar meat directly to consumers register in Primör and that the register is kept up to date. Why do I list all these measures, Madam President? Well, for the reason that the issue concerns so many people in this debate. It is also important to highlight the good efforts that are being made. We welcome the work on the wild boar package and the fact that there is also funding for these measures. It is important to make hunting for wild boars more possible by reviewing the cost picture. The package is both about increasing the demand for wild boar meat and about measures to facilitate the marketing of wild boar meat on the market while maintaining a high level of food safety. And, as I said, the cohesion perspective is important in this work. We in the Liberals hope that the package will also lead to better management of the wild boar tribe. As mentioned in the debate, the damage that occurs in the soils and in the forest is a concern. It is positive if the demand for wild boar meat increases and market outlets are facilitated. However, even if sales are not available on the consumer market, the management of the wild boar stock will continue to be important. We look forward to this continuing work and hope for further action if this is not enough. We believe, however, that the measures taken can go a long way, and we look forward to the next steps.
i-47b596c3990e222c-918	Madam President, I would like Ready as a sausage pad, drag the pepper to where it grows, from grain to loaf and get back for old cheese – our food colors our history, our present and also our language. Our food and food are a vital necessity and a part of our culture and our future. Madam President, I would like Speaking of history and our foodstuffs, it may initially be worth recalling what we Social Democrats have done only until recently. We have developed a long-term food strategy to increase Swedish food production. We have imposed stricter penalties for food fraud and pushed for less dangerous chemicals and better labelling in the EU. We have given municipalities the opportunity to buy more environmentally-oriented and Swedish through a new procurement authority. With better rules, we have launched an investment in increased organic production. And after the drought the hot summer of 2018 we Social Democrats developed a crisis package for Swedish agriculture that is unprecedented in modern Swedish history with SEK 1.2 billion in support of our Swedish farmers to alleviate the effects of drought. Madam President, I would like We are debating in this House this evening the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 19 An improved monitoring of the environment and food policy. The report deals with motions raised on food policy. They concern improved supervision, public procurement, food control, food labelling, organic products, wild boar meat and novel foods. The report also contains the proposal for improved environmental monitoring. Let me start with the government bill. It proposes new and amended provisions in the environmental code. The aim is to align the environmental code with the new EU regulation on official controls and the EU regulation on market surveillance. The proposal also contains new provisions aimed at streamlining and clarifying supervision according to the Environmental Code. The government also proposes that it should be possible to buy products under hidden identity, which is often called test purchases. Test purchases shall ensure that our requirements are met where necessary to protect human health and the environment. Where test purchases are made, the trader shall be informed and informed of the results as soon as appropriate. In the January agreement with its 73 points and the four-party agreement between us Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals there is a special point, paragraph 25, which deals with Swedish food production and how the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture should be strengthened. Swedish food production is crucial for jobs and growth in rural areas. A powerful peasant package will be implemented to strengthen liquidity and competitiveness. Efforts shall also be carried out to support the development towards fossil-independent agriculture. Sweden will work internationally to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. We will introduce origin labelling of meat and fish in restaurants and in large kitchens. As part of the development of public procurement, the government adopted in June 2016 a national procurement strategy to create innovation in the public sector and in the business sector. The goal is to get more authorities to use public procurement as a strategic tool. The strategy contains seven orientation goals, and linked to these goals are tips and advice on how the business can work to meet the goals. Madam President, I would like The national food strategy with a view to 2030 is the first Swedish food strategy covering the whole food chain. It is about rules, conditions, us as consumers, the market, knowledge and innovation. This strategy shall contribute to the full exploitation of the potential of the entire food chain. With increased and sustainable production of food, we get more jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. Consumers are given better opportunities to make informed choices. The strategy's Action Plans 1 and 2 include concrete actions and actions and mandates to achieve the strategy's objectives. Let me exemplify. For example, the Government allocated SEK 1 billion for the implementation of the food strategy during 2017 – 2019, which included nearly 50 concrete measures. It is about investments in support for industries, collaboration, coordination, research, innovation, sustainability, profitability, competitiveness and the promotion of Swedish food exports. It's about jobs, simply – jobs that make all of Sweden alive and that give us more money to invest in more welfare. This is good! In the budget proposal for this year and 2020, the government proposed that the food strategy be further strengthened. Now it amounts to SEK 261 million this year and SEK 122 million per year during the period 2021 – 2025. The food strategy also targets organic food: 30 per cent of Swedish agricultural land will consist of organic agricultural land by 2030, and 60 per cent of public consumption will consist of organic products by 2030. Public procurement should have higher ambitions in areas such as animal welfare, environmental work and Swedish wildlife. Wild is tasty and environmentally friendly, locally produced food. The Swedish Board of Agriculture continuously evaluates the food strategy, and every four years an analysis is carried out that goes deeper. Madam President, I would like The EU's common agricultural policy is also an important aspect of the food strategy. The EU's food strategy from farm to table is under way at the moment. It is central to the realisation of the European Commission's Green Deal, which in turn is a growth strategy with the aim of creating a climate-neutral Union by 2050. From farm to table is about building a sustainable food system for consumers, producers, the climate and the environment and also aims to make the EU's food system a global standard. This is welcome and another beneficial result of our European cooperation. That's good! Madam President, I would like With this report, many people could be hot on porridge or kept on their feet. We may not have to throw pie or put onions on the salmon, or someone is trying to cook soup on a nail. This is, in the end, about what we put in our mouths, what fills our stomachs and what gives us energy and joy. An energetic and healthy food policy will benefit us here today, our children and our grandchildren. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the proposal as a whole and reject all reservations.
i-47b596c3990e222c-939	Madam President, I would like We need effective environmental inspections to achieve a high level of protection for human health and the environment and to achieve long-term sustainable development. Environmental legislation must be complied with and supervision must ensure this. The environmental code is now being adapted to two EU regulations. The adjustments consist in the application of certain provisions of the Environmental Code, such as the right of access and the right to make decisions subject to periodic penalty payments, when the authorities exercise control. There is also a penalty for infringements. It is important that supervision is uniform in the country, including in order for companies to be able to operate on equal terms wherever the business is conducted. Therefore, the county administrative boards are now given the right to impose a municipality that is failing in its task of correcting the deficiencies. Supervisory authorities must also have tools adapted to the new market conditions. To this end, regulatory authorities should be able to purchase products under hidden identity. It is important for authorities to be able to supervise online trade, for example in relation to the chemical content of consumer products. This is, of course, a little controversial, even in today's debate. Should authorities be allowed to operate freely in the hidden and become a mystery shoppers? The answer is no. In fact, almost eight out of ten products purchased directly from companies outside the EU did not meet the requirements of the European chemicals rules. This shows a monitoring project on e-commerce carried out by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. This is very worrying because many products that children and young people use are bought online. When doing this type of sample checks, it is important to be able to remain anonymous. This provision allows an authority to purchase goods without indicating that the purchase is made within the framework of supervision and without specifying the name and address of the authority. The possibility should only be used on such occasions. Madam President, I would like The second issue we are debating here today is food policy. In ten years' time, at least 25% of agriculture in the EU will be organic. The use of chemical pesticides should be halved, as should eutrophication from agriculture throughout the EU. It is the content of the green given and the EU's sustainable food production strategy. Food supply must become more robust, and vulnerability must be reduced in Swedish agriculture and food production. One key to this is the development of food businesses. We need many more food industries, and I would particularly like to highlight the need for small businesses in this sector. We are going to introduce origin labelling of meat and fish in restaurants; this has already been decided. Unfortunately, it is one of the decisions affected by the coronapandemine. Before the system is introduced, it will be tested and examined a little more closely at restaurants. Given that restaurants do not function as normal today during the pandemic, we must postpone that control. However, the decision shall be implemented. Right now, we're in the middle of a coronapandemia. Many people get seriously ill, health professionals get to work hard and people, businesses and society's economies are affected. Some parts of the food chain have also been seriously affected, such as the restaurant industry. The crisis has led to an increased debate on the vulnerability of the food chain, and consumers are showing a greater interest in local and organic food. This shows not least the developments we see for REKO. As part of a green recovery after Corona, Sweden should develop the food strategy. I see two important reasons: The food strategy should be adapted to the green light, which will be important for the recovery of the EU. Here, Sweden can really take advantage of the areas where we are at the forefront. A chapter on our self-sufficiency should be developed. Developing self-sufficiency targets for different basic foods, not only nationally but also regionally, is necessary in order to improve resilience in the event of a crisis. The Food Authority should be given the task of promoting small-scale food businesses. We need to discuss how we can stimulate the establishment of small and medium-sized dairies, slaughterhouses and mills. One thing I would particularly like to point out is that we are investing heavily in the cultivation of legumes in Sweden, but food companies for sorting, packing and processing are not included in the investments. Should the vego trend contribute to Swedish agriculture and not increase dependence on imported anonymous food, a clearer focus on food companies is necessary. Many farms are considered too small. They are too small for the big dairies, too small for the abattoirs and too small for the vegetable wholesalers. Some food businesses are also considered to be too small. They do not have sufficient volumes for either wholesalers or traders. The only thing that really gets to be small is the price. They are the many small farms that shape the mosaic landscape with their small fields, pastures and forests, and this diverse landscape is extremely important for biodiversity. In many parts of Sweden the agricultural landscape is not designed for large-scaleness. And we want a living countryside and a living agriculture throughout Sweden. So we must also promote small farms and small food industries to a greater extent. Small farms and food companies are not too small to reduce vulnerability. On the contrary, many small and medium-sized farms and food businesses are spread throughout the country. They are a prerequisite for a robust and sustainable food system. More people in rural areas also weave a stronger social and cultural network. Alone is not strong. It is very clear when a crisis arises. Biodiversity and gastronomic diversity need small and medium-sized producers, both farmers and food businesses. Madam President, I would like In the Climate Change and Land report, the IPCC has highlighted that organic farming is a good way to achieve more sustainable land use. In a report from the LRF called Increased Swedish organic production – I wave it in the hand here – it is stated that Sweden would benefit from increased organic production. It could create 3,000 more jobs. An interesting effect is that all current conventional producers would also benefit from development. If more producers move to organic farming, they can strengthen their profitability by being able to sell organic products at an additional price. The remaining conventional producers can also have a safer market for their products, the report states. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a brief word about insects as food, which is mentioned in the report. It hasn't had much impact on the plate. The cultivation of insects requires, as does the cultivation of bacteria, fungi, fish, chicken, sheep and cows, both feed and energy inputs. Researchers at SLU reported this year on how food waste and food waste can be used as a resource to breed insects. These insects, in turn, can become feed in fish farms that want to avoid feeding fish with fishmeal from depleted seas. These are interesting and sustainable solutions that we in the Green Party are happy to develop a stronger policy for. More consumers want to eat food with added value – food that contributes to less climate impact and a thriving countryside with more farmers and food companies that have the environment, climate and animal welfare in focus. To make this easier is the policy of the Green Party.
i-47b596c3990e222c-961	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but I only support reservation 2. Common EU rules in the field of waste are important for raising environmental requirements throughout the Union but also for achieving a well-functioning internal market with similar requirements in all Member States. The Moderates have already proposed the development of a digital system for the detection of hazardous waste, and we are therefore in favour of digitising information relating to hazardous waste. It improves and streamlines the transmission of information and increases traceability. However, in its proposal, the Government proposes more stringent obligations for all activities covered by the obligation to report hazardous waste to the digital system than the Directive requires. These include the obligation to note, where the Swedish implementation means that more data should be required to report compared to what is stated in the directive. Almost all Swedish companies are subject to the requirements of a digital register for hazardous waste. Despite this, the government has not carried out an impact assessment of what over-implementing will cost businesses financially. But the fact that it is a competitive disadvantage for Swedish companies because they are forced to meet higher demands and costs than other EU countries even states the government itself. Madam President, I would like In practice, this means that the government puts an administrative wet blanket over Swedish companies. The Moderates think this is serious. It is another one in a series of examples of government over-implementing EU directives. If Sweden is to remain a competitive country, we must ensure that Swedish companies are not forced to impose higher requirements than companies in other EU countries. We are therefore opposed to the government's proposal to over-implement the digital system for the detection of hazardous waste. We demand that the government return with a design where Sweden does not go beyond what the EU directive requires. And if, after all, the government chooses to over-implement the proposal, the government should make an assessment of how this affects Swedish companies' competitiveness. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are in favour of creating a forecast for a resource efficient and circular society. In order to achieve this, the policy should prioritise measures to prevent the generation of waste primarily through re-use. The waste that still arises must be recovered in the first place. In order to increase recycling rates and create better conditions for a circular economy, a change of approach to waste is important. It sounds technical, but it is incredibly important that what is now considered and managed as waste becomes, to a greater extent, a resource that is being recycled. We therefore welcome the fact that Sweden, through EU directives in the field of waste, is taking steps in this direction. S requirements on when waste ceases to be waste are introduced into the environmental code, which is very good. It aims to facilitate processes where recycled materials replace virgin materials in different production processes and thus improve circular flows in society. However, in order to further simplify for companies wishing to recycle waste, the new legislation needs to be complemented by an updated guidance from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for when waste ceases to be waste. The guidance available today does not provide the necessary clarity, many companies report. At present, it is the company that is obliged to show when waste has ceased to be waste. However, no authority today has the responsibility to announce whether the process of ensuring that waste ceases to be waste is sufficient to meet the requirements of the law. Instead, this responsibility rests with licensing authorities, which risk making different assessments in different parts of the country. This creates uncertainty and makes it difficult for all companies that want to recycle waste or want to buy materials that have previously been classified as waste. It also slows down the transition to a circular economy. For example, if you get a product delivery where the products are surrounded by plastic packaging and you then want to use that plastic to create new packaging or other products, it becomes more difficult if it is classified as waste. The Moderates believe that it should be easy to contribute to society's green transition. We want the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to be given the task of developing more detailed guidance on when waste ceases to be waste in order to create greater clarity and predictability for companies that want to contribute to the transformation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will be given a new assignment to assist companies in quickly determining the status of the waste and to develop end of waste criteria for the waste in question. Madam President, I would like Moderates' environmental policy stems from the fact that it should be easy to do the right thing and that it should be easy to make green choices, both for individuals and for businesses. We therefore need to ensure good access to information and the possibility of detailed guidance but avoid drowning Swedish companies in excessive bureaucracy.
i-47b596c3990e222c-978	Madam President, I would like Today's proposal makes several proposals for amendments, mainly in the area of waste, to implement the revised waste directives. The legislative proposals in the bill allow Sweden to continue the development towards becoming a more resource-efficient society that can shift to more and more of a circular economy. That is why we Christian Democrats are in favour of the main thrust of the government proposal. But there are aspects of it that we find problematic. It is essentially a matter of a certain over-implementation of the directive, as the government itself at some point confirms. But in other parts that transparency is unfortunately lacking. We also believe that the impact of the proposals on Swedish companies has not been sufficiently investigated. The Council recognises that they have not had the opportunity to examine in detail each sub-proposal or to assess whether all impacts have been assessed. However, the overall assessment is that the impact assessment meets the requirements of the body. The full Council opinion specifies which elements it believes the proposers could have developed more. The Regulatory Council states that in some cases there is no information on why a proposal goes beyond EU law. These include the proposal concerning the digital system for the detection of hazardous waste, which, unlike the directive, also includes non-hazardous waste. This means that much more companies are subject to the reporting requirement imposed by the legislation. Furthermore, the Regulatory Council would have liked to see more reasoning on alternative solutions in the implementation of EU law. The agency also considers that several proposals involve relatively substantial changes to the current regulatory framework and that the stakeholders, given that the constitutional changes are proposed to enter into force on 1 August, have a very short preparatory period. The Industry Board considers that the impact assessment in the submitted memorandum does not meet the requirements for analysis that should be made in the context of the implementation of EU legislation. Among other things, the Board lacks a comparison with how other Nordic countries and other EU Member States plan to implement EU legislation in order to obtain possible alternative solutions that can be more cost-effective and to ensure that Swedish implementation does not mean that Swedish companies suffer competitive disadvantages in relation to their foreign competitors. Madam President, I would like The fact that the implementation of EU directives should not impair the competitiveness of companies is expressed in the Riksdag's announcement to the Government from the Parliamentary Session 2018/19, which was decided on 3 April. For this reason, we Christian Democrats believe that the government should take restraint in the implementation of EU directives into Swedish law, and the consequences for Swedish industry should be easy to understand. The Christian Democrats believe that most of the legislative proposals in the bill are well balanced but that a more thorough impact assessment for Swedish companies would actually have to be carried out. In addition, we are concerned about the possible over-implementation of the EU directive. We therefore urge the Government to evaluate within a year how the proposed implementation of the EU Directive affects the competitiveness of Swedish companies. I therefore support our reservation No 1. Finally, Madam President. In any case, as far as we know, this is our last parliamentary debate. I would therefore like to wish the President and the President's Bureau, the Chamber, the MJU chancery, represented here, and the other members of the Environment and Agriculture Committees, a pleasant, pleasant and restful summer.
i-Fv4HKdxnqpDng4Muc4s51A	Madam President, I would like In this House, we are today debating the report No 20 by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, the implementation of EU directives in the field of waste. The legislative changes to the bill include the introduction in the environmental code of new definitions and provisions on the liability of the original waste producer for the treatment and costs of waste management. In addition, the municipalities' responsibility for construction and demolition waste and provisions on when waste ceases to be waste are clarified. Several authorisations are being extended to allow the implementation of the requirements of the waste directives at regulatory level. The provisions on control plans in the Planning and Construction Act are supplemented and provisions are introduced in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act to ensure that the confidentiality of information in a register containing information on waste is subject to certain conditions. These constitutional changes are proposed to enter into force on 1 August 2020. The amendments to the Directives are aimed, inter alia, at: Promoting the transition to a circular economy The full implementation of the waste hierarchy in all EU Member States A reduction in waste quantities both in total and per capita 中 ensuring high quality recycling and the use of waste as a significant and reliable source of raw materials for the Union. The proposal also contains proposals for legislative amendments aimed at implementing the provisions of the amending directives to be implemented by the EU Member States on 5 July 2020. Amendments are proposed in the Environmental Code, the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, the Planning and Construction Act and the Tax Act on Waste incinerated. The waste hierarchy mentioned above, or the waste stairway, means a priority order of legislation and policies in the field of waste, i.e. the order in which different methods of treatment of waste should be used. It is based on EU directives and is a means of achieving EU environmental objectives. The principle has also been incorporated into Swedish legislation since 2011. Waste prevention is the highest priority step. The waste stairway is divided into five stages: The government notes in the impact assessment that since all society's actors produce waste of some kind, more or less all citizens and activities are directly or indirectly affected by the provisions proposed in the bill. Many proposals are aimed at those who handle waste professionally, i.e. the waste sector, which means that this group is particularly affected. This sector also includes municipalities and municipal companies, as they are key players in the Swedish waste market. The group of companies and other professional activities is a large and heterogeneous group that is affected in different ways by the proposals in the bill. The Swedish Parliament has previously announced to the government that the government should work to ensure that EU directives are implemented in national law in a way that does not put companies' competitiveness at a disadvantage. The said announcement has not been finalised. The budget proposal for this year, 2020, shows that the government will continue to work on issues related to the implementation of EU law in national law in a way that protects Swedish companies' competitiveness. Madam President, I would like Now that we are talking about waste, I would like to take this opportunity to mention a few words about the January agreement. In the January agreement with its 73 points and the four-party agreement between us Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals there are several points that more or less concern waste. Paragraph 35, for example, concerns economic instruments that should be used to transform society into environmentally friendly ones. For example, paragraph 38 concerns the development towards a resource-efficient, circular and bio-based economy. Finally, at this time of doubts about the economic situation, let me borrow a few lines directly from the January agreement: There should be full preparedness to deal with a situation where the economic cycle is changing. Ensuring good economic development, our future prosperity and good welfare in the future requires a policy that prioritises jobs and promotes the sustainable transition and competitiveness of business. In other words, revised waste directives are also small but important stages in this direction. These are steps that will benefit us here today, our children and our grandchildren. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject any reservations.
i-47b596c3990e222c-1002	Madam President, I would like I can say at the beginning of my speech that we in the Center Party are behind the changes proposed in the report. Most of them are of a rather technical nature and relate to exactly what the report is about, i.e. improving the implementation of the Waste Directive. I would also like to take the opportunity – although it is today's and indeed the last report of the Parliamentary Session from the committee we are debating here – to present the text with a hint of the future of waste management and the circular economy. Although, overall, there are sensible changes proposed here, we should remember that this is a report of a rather technical nature and hopefully not the most forward-looking we are debating in this House in this parliamentary term. Our waste management is an absolutely crucial part of the transition to a circular economy – a transition to which all parties in Parliament are in favour, and for very good reasons. How we manage resources and how we close the loops is crucial if we want a society where we do not live above our resources, where we do not consume finite resources and where we do not have greenhouse gas emissions, environmental toxins and other things that destroy the conditions for future generations to have a good life and a sustainable and growing economy. With that in mind, I also believe that we will have to take some really forward-looking decisions in this parliamentary term, and I believe and hope that the government agreement that the Center Party has concluded with the Liberals and Government parties provides a good basis for taking important steps along that path. What I am talking about here, to try to be something more specific, is about things that have already been mentioned in the debate. When, for example, does waste stop being waste? Or should it begin to be regarded as waste at all? We know that we will need to have completely different financial flows in the future. It is flows where a resource that is part of a commodity, that has been part of a commodity or that has been part of a packaging can also be taken forward. We see that this is where we have the major challenges in the transition to a circular economy. In too many cases, we do not have any actors who can take advantage of these resources, and they do not currently have a market to put them on. We see this in the case of textiles, for example, and we see it all too often in the case of plastics and other goods that circulate in quite large quantities in our economy. What we need to do from a political point of view is to remove the obstacles for these actors in order to make use of these resources. We also need to promote the emergence of markets that can ensure that resources are put into action and start and continue to circulate. From this perspective, current waste legislation is not in every way suitable for the circular economy of the future. The previous speaker mentioned the waste stairway. Although it is a perspective that it will be important to continue to use as a tool, and although it was something that was completely revolutionary for us to use resources in a more sustainable way back in history, we also see that the thinking that is the basis of the waste stairway in some cases becomes a limitation. When we control the use of resources too narrowly, and when we define things as waste, which means that they cannot be exported or traded, there is also a risk that we will stop the cycle and that instead of circulating resources we will actually take them out of use. This is exactly what we need to be able to get away from and that our laws and regulations must also be appropriate to address. I mentioned that I nevertheless believe that we are in a position to take certain important steps during the term of office. In the January agreement we have a few points on this particular issue. At the moment, a circular economy strategy is being negotiated, which I believe will be very important in defining what policy measures will have to be if we are to take the next step. It is very much about what we have been talking about – to be able to remove the obstacles that currently exist in terms of legislation for this. But it's also about being proactive from the point of view of politics and supporting growing markets and companies and actors based on circular economic thinking. A rather good example, as I have already mentioned, is the textile industry. We know that today's textile handling has a major impact on both the environment and climate. For this, the textiles that we use, use and shop in Sweden are often produced in rather bad conditions even socially. It is therefore gratifying from an ecological and an economic and a social point of view if we can get more of a market for circular solutions in Sweden. This is exactly what I think we're going to have to take on board. I see today's debate if not as the final solution, so at least as a welcome opportunity to clarify where we in the Center Party stand on these issues. I therefore thank myself and, like my colleague Ottosson, I thank everyone present for a very good parliamentary year.
i-47b596c3990e222c-1018	Madam President, I would like Liberals are behind the legislative changes aimed at implementing and implementing the EU Directive in this area. Efficient waste management and a developed system for the sustainable recycling of materials and products is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving a resource efficient, circular and bio-based economy. There is a big difference between a circular economy and a linear economy. The new rules are considered to promote increased circularity and lead to reduced amounts of waste and increased recycling as well as uniform implementation of the waste hierarchy across the EU. In the environmental code, the following changes are made in the main. The term ‘municipal waste' replaces the term ‘domestic waste' and specifies what is meant by ‘waste producer'. It may sound technical, but it means a lot to the municipal administration. Provision is made for the liability of the original waste producer for the treatment and management costs of the waste. Waste issues have also involved the committee throughout the spring when we have dealt with issues such as recycled paper, which are not governed by EU directives. There is a strong consumer perspective on these issues. I am thinking a lot about those consumers who think it should be self-evident to be able to repair and repair the consumer products they have. Ultimately, consumers' waste is handled by municipalities throughout this system. The responsibility of municipalities for construction and demolition waste not produced in a professional activity is clarified. Provisions on when waste ceases to be waste are introduced. This has also been the subject of previous speakers, and it is an important albeit technical change. It clarifies who is responsible for meeting the applicable legal requirements for materials and products when waste ceases to be waste. The main amendments to other legislation are as follows: The provisions on control plans in the Planning and Construction Act are supplemented so that a control plan will include information on all construction and demolition waste and also construction products that can be reused. In this particular sector we have significant challenges. There are large amounts of what today becomes waste that should be circulated, but then we must also know what the products contain. Provision is made in the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality to ensure that the confidentiality of information contained in a register containing information on waste is subject to certain conditions. Municipal waste should not cover just everything; it is also reported what is not covered by this. It is agriculture, forestry, fishing, septic tanks, sewage networks and sewage treatment, end-of-life cars, etc. The changes in the directives aim, inter alia, to promote the transition to a circular economy and the full implementation of the waste hierarchy in all EU Member States – it is incredibly important that we have a European perspective on the issues. They also aim to reduce the total and per capita waste generated to ensure high-quality recycling, as I mentioned earlier, and the use of waste as a significant and reliable source of raw materials for the Union – that we reuse what is possible to reuse in a circular economy. Madam President, I would like Only a limited part of municipal waste generated in the EU ends up in re-use or recycling. The rest of the municipal waste is landfilled or disposed of by incineration. The EU is currently missing out on major opportunities for increased resource efficiency and a more circular economy. Furthermore, there are significant differences between Member States in waste management, and several provisions of the revised Directives aim to address these differences. The proposal we are considering today means that the administration or the authority that the government decides will be able to make further regulations as to when waste ceases to be waste under the specified conditions. The person responsible for the treatment of waste shall ensure that the waste is treated in accordance with the priority order of the waste hierarchy, which has also been mentioned by previous speakers. According to the proposal, the municipality should be allowed to provide regulations on the cleaning fee. The cleaning fee may also cover the costs of the infrastructure needed for waste management. Madam President, I would like An important part of the transition to a more circular economy is that society can increasingly replace materials with recycled resources. A clear regulatory framework is an important prerequisite for increasing demand for recycled materials. That is why the provisions on when waste ceases to be waste are extremely important.
i-47b596c3990e222c-1032	Madam President, I would like This time I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, which I forgot last time. Now, Sweden and the EU are seriously going to start promoting the transition to a circular economy and focus policies on reducing the total and per capita waste generated. We really need to ensure that recycling works, that it is of high quality and that the use of waste becomes a significant and reliable source of raw materials. As the previous speaker mentioned, only a limited part of municipal waste generated in the EU is subject to reuse or recycling. In Sweden, we are also burning a great deal of waste, but in the rest of the EU there are too many cases of both burning waste and landfilling waste. This needs to change as the EU is currently missing out on major opportunities for increased resource efficiency and a more circular economy. There are huge differences between Member States in waste management. Several provisions of the revised Directives aim to address these differences. Therefore, the changes can be significantly greater in other countries than in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I am somewhat opposed to the harsh words that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats make about over-implementing. Crying overimplementation is kind of like calling the wolf coming. That is too common an argument in the debates, I think. Very rarely do we see that the European Court of Justice is closing down on the implementation that is being carried out in Sweden. After all, the EU is calling for completeness in the implementation of the directives. I would rather say that what the Moderates and Christian Democrats are proposing is an under-implementation of the directive. This will not be the environmental efficiency needed to achieve the circular economy. In particular, hazardous waste, the worst chemicals and toxins, really need to be ensured that it is phased out of the cycle. I believe that with a very effective management for this, our Swedish companies will benefit very strongly from getting good products that are also safe to use in all stages forward. We will implement the revised waste directives in Sweden in several different ways. This affects, among other things, the environmental code. In particular, the term ‘municipal waste' will replace the term'. It is also important that the new regulations relating to the responsibility of municipalities for construction and demolition waste are adopted. A very large amount of the plastic we use in Sweden is found in the construction waste, and plastic is also one of the most prioritised issues that the Delegation for Circular Economy focuses on. We also have changes in the Planning and Construction Act, where the provisions on control plans are supplemented to include data on all construction and demolition waste. Greater use should also be made of construction products. I would just like to say here that when I was a municipal councillor in Uppsala we created a good system in the areas where we built a lot of housing where we also coordinated transport to the construction areas. This in itself laid the foundations for creating good digital systems for which materials are used in the houses, which means that waste will also be identified much more easily in the future. There are therefore systems and companies in Sweden that are at the forefront today. I note that the Moderates want to give the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency new assignments. I think that's good. However, it is not consistent with the fact that the Moderates in almost every budget want to cut the budgets of environmental authorities. In the January agreement, the government and the cooperation parties state that we will strengthen the development of a circular economy. Extensive work is under way. I would like to highlight in particular the work done by industry, but also the work done by the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Delegation for the Circular Economy in this area already today. A variety of innovative solutions and business models are created that change the toil and toil and use again. Madam President, I would like The concept was coined by Lena Larsson in the 60's. She wanted to launch a debate on modern consumption and the quality of goods. One can really say that she was ahead of her time, because now, 2020, we stand here and talk about the solutions. She was ahead of her time. There is always a need for predecessors, and we environmentalists are familiar with this phenomenon. Tore and toss means to use something until it breaks, and then toss it and buy new. It refers to products of poor quality that do not last long. Now that summer is at the door, it is quite common to turn on the radio and hear the old dots. Then I think of Siw Malmkvist's old song about just toil: If you want to fix success, your style should be rational, Being inside that way seems to have become your refrain because you've started living by the motto toil and throw away. I think there may be artists today who can create better songs about circular economy. With this, I would like to wish the whole committee a happy summer, to the Presidents and to all officials of the entire Parliament. Happy summer!
