i-7a712d5170d2178e-0	Madam President, I would like There are many who are worried these days. The spread of the Corona virus and the increase in the number of people affected by covid-19 are, above all, a humanitarian crisis, with a risk to human life and health, but it has also led to a very serious economic situation. We see how entire industries are crippled, and we have not seen such a rate of notice since the financial crisis. The whole of society is now being affected economically very quickly. The extraordinary situation requires that we also act quickly, collected and targeted to support the Swedish economy and to save Swedish companies, Swedish jobs and Swedish welfare. The proposal that we now have on Parliament's table shows that we take the need for speed very seriously. The government has proposed in an additional amending budget that companies should be able to defer payment of certain taxes and charges. Consequently, since the tax already paid at the beginning of the year is also covered, companies may be able to recover the corresponding amount, which may be absolutely necessary for those who have acute liquidity problems to overwinter. In order to give the Swedish Tax Agency time to rig its organisation, it was intended that the Act would enter into force on 7 April, but the Swedish Tax Agency has through major re-priorities and a quick action now promised that the system will be able to work as early as Monday. The fact that a united committee has now moved the entry into force of the law gives us time for companies in a tight position. This, of course, is not the only effort now being carried out, but, on the contrary, the state has clearly acted to meet the economic problems arising from the spread of infection and disease. To ensure the credit supply, a wide range of government efforts have been made to pump power into our financial system and provide liquidity to industries and companies in a situation where demand has rapidly decreased or, in some, completely disappeared. In order to secure jobs, measures are taken to remove costs from businesses. The state temporarily takes over sick pay responsibility, and salary costs can be significantly reduced through the short-term lay-off system. And yesterday the government and the cooperation parties presented further proposals, many of which were previously highlighted by the opposition parties, to provide support to companies that are struggling. A business case is being set up to support affected SMEs. In addition, it is proposed to reduce employers' contributions, support for rental costs to companies in vulnerable sectors and tax changes aimed at the smaller ones. Madam President, I would like The economic policy of recent years has been much about equipping the Swedish economy and building resilience to crises. The strength that has been created is now being used to secure Swedish jobs and companies and safeguard our common security. Around our country, people are now making great efforts to prevent the spread of infection. In health care, heroic efforts are being made by staff to cope with an extremely difficult situation, a situation which, moreover, will certainly be even more difficult in the coming days and weeks. Lack of money should not, of course, stand in the way of health care. Everyone who works to care for victims should receive the necessary resources. The State will take all extraordinary costs associated with health care due to the infection and the relevant authorities will receive the additional resources needed for this work. Madam President, I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-8	Madam President, I would like A lot of people are worried right now. When life and health are significantly threatened, it can be difficult to think about other things. There is concern for loved ones, concern for the job and the future, and concern that we do not know how this will end. Unfortunately, the probability is that things will get worse before things get better. Sweden is now being tested, both human and economic, but the Swedish society is fundamentally strong. We have trust in each other and in our authorities, and once that happens, we will all do our utmost. I am absolutely convinced that together we will get through this difficult crisis. Everyone has to help, everyone has to do their best and everyone has to be their best. Together we will be able to do this. Madam President, I would like Today's decision is about companies being able to borrow money directly from the state through the tax account in order not to go bankrupt due to a lack of money. Already thousands of people around Sweden have lost their jobs, and more people are at risk of doing so. Companies are going bankrupt or have already ended up there. The situation is urgent. The decisions we take in the next few days and weeks are, I believe, absolutely crucial to what the 2020s will be, and they will affect us for a long time to come. Today, the Riksdag will allow companies not to pay taxes and charges on their staff, and the same is true of VAT. This is done retroactively from January to September and means that companies, in this emergency situation, are given the opportunity to borrow money directly from the state by not having to pay taxes and charges now directly. This is a good thing, but the costs for companies to borrow this money are far too high and correspond to an interest rate of 6.6%. The idea is that we should help the companies. Then the government and the support parties cannot set such a high interest rate that some companies feel they cannot even take part in the state's crisis package. We Moderates will do everything we can to keep the interest rate as low as possible. We want companies to be able to afford to borrow and use this money. That way we can save jobs. I would like to express my special thanks to the parliamentary committee and to the Christian Democrat Jakob Forssmed, who, through hard work, has enabled us to bring the emergency measures forward for a whole week. Thank you, Jakob! It will save jobs and make it easier for companies that have an acute lack of money. I think it is important that we in Parliament's parties now help to get through proposals that are important for Sweden as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like Finally, this crisis affects all of us in the end, and we must help each other together to get through it. The Swedish parliament and government are now deciding on large rescue packages to save companies from bankruptcy. We are doing this so that hardworking people do not lose their jobs. That is why I would like to call on all those companies that are now receiving lay-off aid and emergency packages in order to retain their staff. I would also like to call on all those banks which now have a very important role to play in facilitating credit provision. You can't hand out winnings at this point! Parliament expects more of you. The Swedish people expect more from you. It is everyone's common tax money that is now being used to prevent an economic disaster. The fact that companies first receive crisis money for short-term lay-offs and then withdraw money – profit – to give to shareholders is simply unacceptable at this point in time. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the proposal that has been tabled.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-15	Madam President, I would like Today, we are going to decide on a small part of all the crisis measures currently being taken, planned and prepared. This is about opening a new channel of liquidity via the tax account for the country's hard-working companies. Fundamentally sound companies should not have to go bankrupt or encounter similar difficulties due to an acute lack of liquidity. That is why we are now taking steps to open up the necessary channels. This is one of them. There is also reason to recall the whole thing that is being carried out these days. We have now presented in two weeks measures corresponding to two years' normal scope for reform, and nothing indicates that this process is in any way over. Further steps will be needed to secure key societal functions. In terms of direct relief and the fact that we are actually removing costs from our companies, it is a question of reducing employers' contributions, abolishing sickness pay, a facility for greatly reduced rents to affected industries and a short-term lay-off arrangement that very many small and large companies have already used. In terms of credit and liquidity to companies, it is now a matter of government-guaranteed loans via the banks and proper additions to Almi, EKN and similar actors that support Swedish entrepreneurship. It is credit through a tax account that we are going to decide on today. A minor but important issue is the question of the interest rate to be applied to this credit line. The annual interest rate currently stands at 6.6 per cent. Why does it do that? Yes, it is because we are using the present proposal and an existing proposal that could be used as quickly as possible. I want to make it clear that if this is going to be a more long-term process and we see that this is being used longer, then the annual interest rate needs to come down. I say today what the Minister of Finance said at a press conference yesterday, namely that we look forward to discussing this in the Committee on Finance to see at what level the long-term interest rate should be. But it is also important to tell the companies that are now using this – thousands of companies have already reported their interest in using this – that the initial interest rate if you use this one month, two months or three months is already very low today. You can already use this tool and feel safe, not least because the Swedish Tax Agency has today gone out and said that you pause the representative responsibility linked to the credits given through the tax account. The common feature of all the steps taken these weeks is that we should secure the central functions of society. Sweden will continue to work even in this very troubled time. We will also do what we can to secure Swedish jobs and companies. Then it is a question of continuing to lift costs from the shoulders of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, so that they can cope with overwintering and so that they remain when the economic cycle is reversed and when today's very serious events are turned into something else and better. There's still a lot of work to be done. We are taking a step today through the decision we will take later this afternoon. I support the proposal and therefore the committee's proposal.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-24	Madam President, I would like These are difficult times. There are a lot of people who make huge sacrifices and who are working very hard in school, health care and care for the elderly to face this crisis. There are very many who are worried about their relatives, who have relatives who have become ill or who are at risk of becoming ill. And it's people who die. I think there are many of us who long for family. You can't visit your old mother anymore. I find that difficult. I'd love to be there for my mom. I can't do that now. You get to send cards and letters, and you get to talk a little extra on the phone. Since there are many who sacrifice very much and society is putting in very large resources to protect the risk groups that exist, it also feels that there is a particular responsibility on the part of each of us. Therefore, you get a little upset when you see people who think it's more important for them to go shopping smoked eel in Östermalmshallen even though they belong to a risk group or that they think they are so healthy and vital that they can sit wherever they want. There is also a social responsibility in this crisis. Although you may not have thought you had it in the past, you should take it especially now, I would like to bring it forward. I said a lot of people are working very hard. We also know that well-being has been underfunded for a long time, so that we have been less able to face this crisis. It is health professionals who have left their jobs because working conditions have been far too tough. You haven't been able to handle it. You've gone. In the same way, it is for teachers. And in the care of the elderly, it's a constant stress. Now many people have already lost their job. Before this crisis, some 700 000 people were employed on fixed-term contracts in this country. That means they'll get to go first. That's how the labour market works. A lot of them don't have access to an unemployment fund. I think about four out of ten unemployed people have access to unemployment funds. We have a very tight set of rules. These people will now pay their rent on the last of March. We are talking here about packages that are very large, and the government presented additional packages yesterday. I think we should do what we can to save jobs and businesses. We're gonna work together for that. But we must also see that there are very many people who have a very tough financial situation in this crisis. There are single mothers, and I received a letter this morning pointing out that they don't have money for food now that high school schools are closed. There are unemployed people who contact us and ask how they are going to pass the rent. Where are the tenants of the Government and the cooperation parties? How are these people going to make their rent payment on the last of March? Should people have to be evicted because we have a medical crisis? I don't think so. I think the high school students should have food on the table. That is why we have proposed an additional study grant. I think we should change the regulations in the unemployment fund very quickly – it would already have been – and I think that the compensation levels should be increased. I think we should focus on care for the elderly, care and school. I think this package with the tax account is a good way to work. Existing systems must be used to quickly develop proposals. I would also like to highlight Jakob Forssmed's contribution, which has made it faster. He has done a great deal of work to make this possible. I think that together we have gradually moved forward. Then there is a discussion about the interest rate level on the tax account. That discussion may continue. Measures have now been taken with credits, which were presented yesterday. But at the same time the interest rate is high, and it is an interest rate that is equal for everyone. Perhaps that should be discussed as well. I think we simply need to come back to this discussion and see where we can land. But it is good that this can now be taken more quickly, and I support the committee's proposal. But I would also like to finally send a call: See the tenants, see the unemployed and see all the people who work in care and care for the elderly and produce packages for them too!
i-7a712d5170d2178e-32	Madam President, I would like The Corona epidemic is hitting on life and health, it is now testing us widely and we need to do everything we can to protect those who are most vulnerable in this situation. Even the economic crisis in the wake of the Corona epidemic is unprecedented in modern times. When country after country takes drastic measures to limit the spread of infection, the effects on the global economy are almost devastating. In Sweden, we are in the midst of an economic crisis of a magnitude that we have not seen in modern times – its enormous speed is only matched by its depth. People see their life's work merging in front of their eyes, and many are at the same time outside the security system. The unemployment that is in danger of becoming very severe risks leading to insecurity and serious health consequences. We know that mental and physical ill-health, social problems and a lack of community follow in the wake of unemployment. Many people still suffer from the health consequences of the financial crisis more than ten years ago. The effects are in danger of becoming even greater now and actually shortening lives. If significant parts of the economy fail and many become unemployed due to this strong but temporary supply and demand shock, we will have to face major problems in the national economy for a long time, even after the economy has returned to more of a normal state. It is about lost resources, including for welfare. It's about jobs – providing supply and coherence – that don't come back again. Even entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship that have built Sweden strongly for decades can be broken down. We also see such entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in the midst of the crisis. Companies see problems and find solutions, which when industry quickly switch to the production of advanced health care materials or re-train staff. This entrepreneurship is not just in companies. It is also in the broad civil society that now, despite its own difficulties, steps forward and takes a great responsibility for those who suffer – not least – loneliness and isolation. What the government has proposed has been reasonable measures in themselves. Yesterday, new proposals were made that would provide more cost relief for smaller companies as well as government credit guarantees. It is good and necessary, but it will require even more. It is clear that the state must remain in a position to stimulate the economy at a later stage, but there is a danger of waiting or doubting even more vigorous measures at this stage. It is better now in crisis to scale up to a significant extent than to gradually expand support measures over time, because there is a risk that there will be no employers left to support. With today's report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is taking a special initiative in order to bring forward the possibility of requesting suspension of the payment of taxes and charges that has been proposed. This possibility also means that previously paid taxes and charges for the first quarter can be recovered retroactively. This is very good. It can quickly strengthen the liquidity of companies and become a kind of life buoy to hold on to in order not to succumb while waiting for other support measures or waiting for it to light up. Every day is important now in the dramatic course that we see. That is why I am pleased that I was able to initiate a process to change the Government's proposal so that this will now be in place a week earlier. I am also pleased that there was a willingness and broad support in the Committee on Finance to do this. The chancellor's been working hard to get it in place. The Swedish Tax Agency has also put on the shoes of readiness in this context. It is needed now, and it can help to save crisis-stricken companies and avoid premonitions and bankruptcies. At the same time, however, it is problematic for the State to charge interest on this deferred amount equal to 6.6% on an annual basis. This means that companies are reluctant to grasp this lifebuoy and that the aid does not have the effects that it is supposed to have. The possibility of retroactive deferment is something that we want to be used so that companies can become more liquid in the short term. Today's interest rate discourages – it discourages purely mathematically – and it is perceived that the state is not only interested in saving businesses but also in earning a hack in this context. I think that's pretty bad right now. The interest cannot, of course, be lower than what a company can get in a deposit account; it would provide pure arbitrage gains. For this reason, there needs to be an interest rate, but it can and should be substantially reduced. If this means that some funds flow from the banking system and the credits given there and instead end up in this system, I think that is something you can live with. We also have a proposal for credit guarantees aimed at partly the same thing, namely that at this point the state should take over a larger part of the credit risk. Then you can also lower the interest rate on the deferral amount and need not be so concerned about it because you have other systems with the same purpose. I think it would be beneficial– in fact a hopeful act– if this interest rate could be lowered. I hope for similar and good cooperation on this issue in the Committee on Finance. Another obstacle to grasping this life buoy has been the representative responsibility, which the Christian Democrats and many others have called for to be paused. With the application that has applied so far, there has been a risk that small businesses would become personally liable if the company went bankrupt with a tax debt. However, the Swedish Tax Agency now announces that it will not apply for representative responsibility, but will pause this during the period of the temporary grace period. This is incredibly beneficial for more companies to be able to manage at this time. If we could also lower the interest rate, it would be very effective. This is only part of everything that is now under discussion. From the Christian Democrats' side, we see in front of us that we need to do further things. We see that we need to strengthen the system of short-term lay-offs so that it will be possible to use this also at higher levels – up to 90% of working time – so that the employer gets a reduction in wage costs of almost 80%. The salary ceiling needs to be increased so that more groups are included. The system needs to be broadened so that more companies can use the system. I hope that the Committee on Finance will be able to broaden the scope of the proposal somewhat. It is already clear that there is support for the inclusion of family members in family businesses as well, and that is very good. I also believe that we need to remove the restriction that has been imposed on the taking of other measures and the dismissal of temporary staff, in order not to take measures that have simply not been intended. Finally, I would like to say something about all those who have already left work, who have had temporary employment and who are often outside the security system. There now needs to be urgent proposals from the government to improve access to unemployment funds. This applies not least to temporary and hourly workers, who are the first to lose their jobs in this crisis. There are good ideas here that we should try. Double counting of the number of months of membership and temporary mitigation of working conditions could be things that allow more people to benefit from better protection at this stage and not be referred to by great insecurity. At a later stage, other measures will be needed, such as training places, welfare support and investment. But right now, we need to do things urgently and directly to save jobs and avoid premonition. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The Corona crisis is here, and it is serious. Many people now make great efforts every day in health care, in school, and around our society to allay the anxiety that many feel. Great efforts are being made to ensure that healthcare works, and great efforts are being made to make people feel safe. An important aspect of security is about jobs – knowing that you have a job to go to and that the entrepreneur feels confident that the company remains and that the company can survive despite the Corona crisis we are currently seeing. Madam President, I would like I believe that the most important Swedish policy can do right now is about jobs and avoiding mass unemployment. We know that when mass unemployment strikes, people will lose their jobs, never return to the labour market and never regain confidence in the future. The social costs will be very high. I do not think that we can overestimate how high these costs are and how dangerous this is for the cohesion of a society. Therefore, the message from Swedish politics must now be that we are prepared to do what is necessary to secure jobs in Sweden and that we are prepared to do what is necessary to avoid mass unemployment. That doesn't mean everyone's gonna keep their job. This does not mean that every company is protected from going bankrupt. However, we are prepared to do what is necessary to avoid mass unemployment, major social pressures and major social unrest. It is important that a society stays together and that people feel confident in the future. An important part of this is about the crisis packages that are now being launched and presented to secure Swedish jobs, to ensure that entrepreneurs remain and can also employ in the future. It is then a question of making sure that the costs are lower for the rent you have but also for the employees you have, but also that you can get money back, that you can get back the tax money you have paid or get deferred with the tax payments you should make. It is an important way to ensure that entrepreneurs get more money in the bank and more money into the account that can be used here and now. Some of what we are considering in this debate means that we are now doing everything we can on the part of Parliament to ensure that the crisis packages are dealt with as quickly as possible so that entrepreneurs can make use of the rules that are now to be introduced as early as possible. It is also important that we ensure that the regulations that we are now getting in place are as good as they can only be. One such part concerns the interest rate on the suspension, and I look forward to the discussions we will have in the Committee on Finance to ensure that the interest rate is as good as possible for Sweden's entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like We are prepared to do what is necessary to secure Swedish jobs. With the report we are dealing with right now, we are taking a first step to ensure that jobs are secured and that companies are the basis of the Swedish economy.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-67	Madam President, I would like I am extremely often very proud of Sweden, and every day in this crisis, that feeling deepens in me. There are so many fantastic contributions that are being made around our country right now, of course, and perhaps above all in healthcare that is changing and caring for and caring for. Throughout the wide range of preparedness efforts, authorities are changing and doing what is necessary, and NGOs are stepping forward and offering their services and their hands and feet, so that we can all go through this crisis together. To some extent, it will mean that we together mourn for those we lose. Not least, it means that we go together to mitigate the effects. An extremely important part of it is of course to mitigate the economic effects of the very tough decisions taken to deal with the infection. Many companies are now extremely concerned about tomorrow and about the future. Many people have already lost their jobs. It no longer rings on the phone of the hourly employees. That is why it is extremely important that we now do everything we can quickly and resolutely to alleviate this blow for Swedish companies, so that as many people as possible can keep their jobs and income. Many measures are needed, and the government and cooperation parties have presented a number of packages. Already at the beginning of this crisis, the Riksbank was very clear to us in the Committee on Finance that this will, among other things, be a matter of money in the daily treasury of many Swedish companies, and we are talking here today about measures that deal with this very issue. We can use the tax account as a way to free money for many companies. It's practical, it's real and it's here and now. Through good cooperation in committee, we will ensure that this will be possible as from next week. It will also be possible to defer the tax. One thing that was presented yesterday, which is important to very many people who have their own company, is that those who are facing paying VAT for last year, which many will pay in the coming weeks, do not have to. It is clear that you can postpone VAT payments and keep the money to keep your business alive. That is the kind of very practical and resolute action that we are now implementing, one by one, to keep companies under arms. I am very pleased that we can do so much of this work through good dialogue in the committees and in Parliament, so that we can jointly make consensus decisions in this House. We have a lot of work ahead of us, and we have a lot of discussions ahead of us, and we shall take them in good tone. I also think it is extremely good that we have a clear common message from the policy to those companies that are now taking part in the measures that we offer that it is not appropriate to combine the participation of state aid and, at the same time, to award bonuses or pay dividends to their shareholders. It is offensive to do this. In some parts of the regulatory framework we can regulate that this will not be possible, but because we are introducing the rules quickly we have not managed to get that detail into all the rules. That is why we must now appeal to everyone who attends corporate meetings this spring for your decency and morale to either postpone decisions on the future or do the right thing and withhold dividends, for now we are doing this together, and then everyone stands up and is solidarity. This is important, because the signal to all those who lose their jobs will otherwise be extremely unhappy and risk creating divisions in our country, and that is the last thing we need right now. We're gonna deal with this crisis together. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-77	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. I wish the ring had never come to me and that none of this had happened," says Frodo to Gandalf. Gandalf answers: You do not choose the time you live. You only choose what you do with the time you live. Right now we are living in very serious and difficult times. It places great demands on each of us, and it places great demands on how we act together. No one can do anything, but everyone can do something. For many people, this is the very simple but also very difficult thing: just taking care of yourself, being able to stay indoors, not seeing grandchildren and not going to social activities, but keeping yourself healthy so that you do not occupy that place in care that someone else will need. It is about keeping yourself healthy so that you are there for children, grandchildren, friends and acquaintances when this pandemic has passed. For many others, the effort is about something that resembles heroism. It's about day in and day out meeting sick and anxious people in the care, day out and day in, night out and night out and night in and night out to meet old and sick in the care of the elderly, to defy your own fears and go to work in the shop or as a bus driver or in other ways be there in our economy and in our society, so that we can as best we can continue to work together. We as politicians must, of course, feel, understand and face the great concern that many people now feel, from those who are worried about their own health to those who are worried about their own livelihoods and the small businessman who is wondering how to feed the mouths at home and pay the rent when the revenue is not paid. In this we must stand strong together and do what is possible. It is also important that the people who sit on the most resources and the greatest opportunities now behave decently and in a way that strengthens the whole of society. It is not time for banks and big companies to distribute profits to their owners. You don't have to be an economist or manager to understand that money left in the cashier gives more resilience to protect jobs in tough times than distributed money to the owners. Now everyone must take responsibility, and anyone who receives tax money in order to carry on their business and anyone who trusts in the common security systems for their activities to continue to work must act back with full solidarity and determination to safeguard jobs and functionality throughout society. Madam President, I would like The task is difficult but at the same time clear. We need to limit the disease, and we need to cushion the effects on the economy. But in this we also have to light a candle for a better future and think about how Sweden will become a better country when this is over than we were when this started. This can only be done by protecting growth, jobs and security. Today we are debating a small part of this, namely how more people should dare and want to invest in Sweden so that everyday life in the future can be better and the resilience to meet problems like those we now face will be even greater in the future. Madam President, I would like Since a bit into the 2010s, Sweden has not delivered as Sweden can deliver when Sweden is at its best. There has been fatigue in pursuing reform policies. Too little has been done for more people to become curious and involved in the future and for people to want and dare to invest and develop in our country. If Sweden is to meet future crises better and together build a better tomorrow for each of us, the reform work needs to take off again. Today, the Moderates propose a number of measures that will once again build Sweden into one of the world's absolute best countries to live and work in, in everyday life and in crisis. It is clear that we have a number of tasks ahead of us. It is about alleviating the disease, it is about alleviating the effects on the economy and it is about gradually building a better future together so that future crises can be met from a stronger position and our everyday lives together in this country can be even better.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-90	Madam President, I would like Normally, we would not have a situation in which the policy is largely aimed at closing down a lot of jobs. Instead, we would be debating how we get the economy going, according to the Sku21 report, capital and property. In the current situation, the government has taken some urgent measures that have been very good. The views of the Swedish Democrats on the scope and priorities I leave to my party leader to convey in his direct and indirect contacts with the government. What we are now debating are motions by parties and Members concerning tax on companies, capital and property. The report deals with motions that were written long before the Corona crisis struck with full force, so some of the proposals may seem temporarily out of date. But when the crisis eventually ends and everything returns to the reasonably normal, better conditions are needed for smaller companies. The Swedish Democrats have always given priority to small and medium-sized enterprises. The opportunity to create more jobs is at its greatest if small businesses can be set up and, above all, grow. Start-ups need favourable conditions during the pre-commercial phases. Existing small businesses must be allowed to grow, because it is at the stage of growth that they are making new orders. Let us look at the even longer term, beyond the current crisis but in the run-up to future crises: one of the shortcomings of industry that has been highlighted in recent days is that crises can lead to disruption of free trade across borders. Sweden must therefore create the conditions for a better preparedness. Germany temporarily halted the export of protective equipment, which could have devastating consequences for Sweden if Germany had not changed its mind. In addition, Sweden cannot cope with its food supply in the event of a crisis that means a stop in trade and in supply chains. Action will have to be taken in this area too, not least in the area of taxation. Catrin Molander, head of the Emergency Response Unit at the Swedish Board of Agriculture said in an article in Today's Industry the other day: If you take that perspective, Sweden's self-sufficiency is virtually zero. ..................................................... Palle Borgström, President of the LRF, points out that certain excise duties are burdening agriculture, that the regulatory framework for new investments is complicated and that fossil-free fuels must be made more attractive in order to reduce dependence on imported diesel. He also made the comment that now has become a winged quote: ..................................................... Well, these are measures that can be taken in the long term when everything has calmed down. At the moment, I would ask the Members of this House to consider our proposal on investor deductions. Investment leads to employment and development, and then the investor deduction is a good tool for directing venture capital towards smaller companies that would probably be considered less attractive to invest in without this deduction. The Swedish Democrats want to further develop the deduction in terms of level, possibility for legal persons to use the deduction and to allow the public to use it for investments in venture capital funds that invest in small companies. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-103	Madam President, I would like It feels serious to be standing in this speaker's chair today. Sweden and the world are going through the worst crisis since the Second World War. There are many of us who are concerned about the state of things and how it may be in the future. At the moment, hundreds of thousands of people are doing their utmost to both save lives and ensure that Sweden can function optimally in the future. That is why I would like to begin my speech by expressing my sincere and warm thanks to everyone in the healthcare sector, everyone who ensures that we have food in the shops, everyone who handles transport, everyone in childcare and school– you are our heroes. Madam President, I would like The Swedish business community and our companies are the foundation of all our well-being. It is with a strong and competitive business world that new jobs can grow and generate tax revenue that strengthens our common well-being. Without companies no welfare. I think everyone now understands this regardless of ideological preferences. Rarely have the conditions and challenges of the companies been as focused as at present. I, and probably all my parliamentary colleagues from all parties, are currently spending a lot of time listening to the problems caused by the current situation depending on the industry, the size of the company and geographical location. Of course, it is also about how we can solve the problems that arise both today and in the future. At the same time, there are many system errors that we have had to remedy for a long time. May be that much of what we are debating and deciding today is not what can save a crisising company at the acute stage, but it does not take away the fact that we have to make decisions that will strengthen business in general and entrepreneurship in particular in the long term. Madam President, I would like The supply of skills for companies and the need to increase the driving forces of the workforce for skills development have long been an important issue in order to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. I can only say that, as the situation now stands, we will probably have even greater need to invest in various forms of further training. Employees must be given better opportunities to develop skills in the workplace. This creates better conditions for career steps and makes people stronger in the labour market and easier to find a new job. Employers must also have clear incentives to invest in employees' skills. And society needs to be better able to face bottlenecks in shortage jobs. Sweden's competitiveness is based on high skills and that many companies invest a lot in employees' further training and skills enhancement efforts. However, since there is always a risk of companies losing the value of such an investment, for example if the employee changes jobs, not all companies make these important investments in skills-enhancing measures for staff. In a changing world, the individual has a greater value of upskilling than companies can normally offer. Therefore, there is a social interest in creating specific financial incentives to invest in employee training. The Center Party therefore wants companies' incentives to invest in this to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like It is important that taxes are designed so that the competitiveness of Swedish companies is further strengthened. Taxes must be designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses. Taxes will contribute to growth and development throughout the country, facilitate job creation and entrepreneurship and stimulate green tax exchange. Taxes must also be predictable, legally secure and long-term. I would like to conclude by calling for approval of all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party in the report.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-113	Madam President, I would like A handful of men own more than half the world's population do together. The increasingly unequal distribution of wealth is similar in Sweden as well. Every year, Sweden becomes more and more unequal. The value of many's work ends up in a few pockets while welfare goes on its knees. Wealth and capital are concentrated in those who already have the most and leave a great many behind. Today we have a tax system rigged for the richest. It's not very popular. In a rich country like Sweden, we cannot, and will never, accept underfunded welfare, where nurses and child-careers do not have enough colleagues, reasonable work schedules or wages that can be lived on, while a few earn billions. In these times, when we are being asked to work from home, we know exactly which target groups cannot because they are working hard to make welfare and society work. It is not enough applause, especially from those who have spent decades feeding the well-being of the rich. We must reduce economic disparities and use the tax system to redistribute resources and change the power relations in society. There is also a need for substantial contributions to welfare over time. The Left Party has therefore proposed, among other things, increased taxation of capital and higher income. One of the reasons for the growing inequality is the skewed distribution of capital income. This has led to a sharp increase in economic disparities. Only three years ago, total property income amounted to nearly SEK 400 billion. 90% of these go directly to the tenth of the population with the highest income. They are so unevenly distributed that in one year the tenth with the highest income will have the same share in capital income as all the children of the country receive child benefit every month for ten years. Moreover, the richest are often able to convert labour income into low-taxed capital income. They are simply making money out of money that could instead be redistributed to, for example, rearrange the general well-being properly and to give the assistant nurse more colleagues and better working conditions. Taxes on capital income, inheritance and wealth mean not only more fair and well-functioning societies but also a shift of power away from a few capital owners. People who already find it difficult to cope with their finances, the sick and the unemployed, today have to finance tax relief for financially well-off people. That's anything but fair. That is why we also need to change the economy as a whole. With fair taxes, we can redistribute power and resources through the tax system in a more solidarity-based way. This requires a strong distribution policy aimed at the groups most in need. For the Left Party, it is self-evident to invest in general welfare. For us, it is self-evident to reduce economic disparities and prioritise the economically vulnerable. With this in mind, I would like to endorse Amendment No 4 to the report.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-122	Madam President, I would like Today's debates are being held under special circumstances. The Corona virus is largely a feature of our world, and not least businesses and all employees are now being hit very hard. The crisis needs to be met with strong measures to save as many jobs as possible. Today's dossier, the Tax Committee's report on corporate, capital and real estate taxation, is based on motions written and submitted in other circumstances, last autumn. But there is a fundamental logic that is always the same: Företag is needed to create jobs and thus tax revenue. If we want jobs and tax revenue, we must also have good conditions for companies. Taxes and rules must be designed in such a way as to be attractive and as easy as possible to set up and run businesses. There is much in this area that could be better, but at the same time there are things in Sweden that are good and that must be protected. A wide range of world-renowned companies have been launched here in recent years; Skype, King, Spotify and Izettle are some examples that show that Sweden is actually one of the world's most innovative countries. We'll be proud of that. There are of course many reasons why companies like these are emerging right here in Sweden. One reason is that since gift taxes, inheritance taxes and property taxes have been removed, there are conditions for retaining and reinvesting capital here in Sweden. It is extremely valuable to Swedish society, now and in the long term. It is therefore worrying that ideas about new or higher taxes on capital are aired from time to time. It would hit investment in new companies. The opposite is true of the Christian Democrats: on the contrary, the tax system must become more competitive, make it more attractive to run companies and attract more investments. Madam President, I would like However, much needs to be done to ensure that Sweden has a more competitive, business-friendly and investment-friendly tax environment. We will have more debates on taxes in the spring, not least on income taxes. However, on today's matter, there is one thing that I would like to emphasise in particular. That is the tonnage tax on shipping. Maritime transport is a very important industry for Sweden, and the introduction of a Swedish tonnage tax system has helped to improve the conditions for Swedish shipping. For a few years we have seen an increase in the number of Swedish-flagged merchant vessels. That's good, but I'm sure it could be even better. The Christian Democrats believe that it is high time to start developing our tonnage tax system, investigating the limitations that exist and minimising uncertainties for shipping companies in the current system. I have asked the Minister of Finance on several occasions whether it is not time to review the tonnage tax system. Moreover, Members from other parties have also done so. The standard response from Magdalena Andersson is that it must first go a few years in order for it to be relevant to evaluate. But we are now in the fourth year of tonnage tax. So it has been a few years and an evaluation is certainly appropriate. In other countries, taxation is constantly being turned on to make their own model the most attractive. The Danes are really good at this. By the end of the year, they made changes to their already attractive tonnage tax system. This makes sailing under the Danish flag even more attractive. We need to keep up with developments. We have to be offensive. Our ambition must be that Sweden should be the best country to operate in. Madam President, I would like Improving tonnage taxation is an example of how the conditions for Swedish jobs are improved, in this example by improving the conditions for Swedish shipping. The same logic applies in all sectors. If tax conditions are good, through tax rules that encourage investment and are easy to understand and tax levels that are competitive, the conditions for more jobs to emerge will also be improved. More jobs, in turn, give more tax revenue, which can be used to improve care, care for the elderly and the police, just to name a few things. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats, of course, support all our reservations, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for the approval of reservation 7.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-132	Madam President, I would like It is very difficult to stand here and debate today in the crisis situation that we are in. Furthermore, we are debating issues that are really anything but the humanitarian crisis that we need to deal with here and now. Having said that, I intend to be very brief in today's debate. The main task of tax policy is to finance the common welfare and various social functions as well as possible. Tax policy should ensure good and stable tax revenues and create the conditions for sustainable growth, high employment and fair distribution of wealth. It should be designed to comply with a number of guiding principles of legitimacy and a fair tax system, together with general and clear rules that are sustainable in relation to the EU. Of course, the issues we are debating here today will be reviewed regularly. In addition, we also see, not least these days, that the preparedness and role of the public in society need to be strengthened. We already saw at the supplier crisis in healthcare last autumn how vulnerable it can be to rely on just-in-time deliveries. Society must have a back-up and cannot rely on everything always to work as smoothly as possible. We have every reason to come back to these discussions after today's crisis is over, because right now we have other things to focus on. It is clear to us Social Democrats that society must become stronger and that we must jointly ensure that we have a greater capacity to cope with unforeseen events. It will not be free, but we all benefit from building a stronger society. It's rarely been as clear as it is now. We demand that all motion requests be rejected.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-136	Madam President, I would like It is a serious situation Sweden and the world is in. However, I would like to turn to the image that has been put in this debate by a number of previous speakers, namely the image that one could distinguish between welfare and prosperity. People have said here, Madam President, that we should not spend much time discussing entrepreneurship and the economy, as we have a serious crisis in the form of the Corona epidemic to face. I want to say that it is exactly the opposite. The crisis that Sweden and the world are facing demonstrates the importance of building a strong prosperity, so that you can finance welfare efforts when necessary and face both the crisis we have today and the crises that will come tomorrow. The Socialist Minister for Finance has said that we can now take from the barns, because the barns have been full. But, Madam President, it is not Magdalena Andersson who has filled Sweden's barns, but enterprising people. It is about entrepreneurs who have dared to challenge, people who have had innovative ideas, people who have driven ideas, entrepreneurship and hired people, people who have created with their own efforts the value that we then use when filling barns and when we buy protective equipment, pay wages in welfare, buy ECMO machines and make important efforts to meet the Corona epidemic. There is no distinction between prosperity and prosperity. One assumes the other. As soon as this crisis is over – we are working hard on it – we will have to go back to building prosperity and ensuring that entrepreneurship is once again taking off. Now, support of various kinds is needed to keep entrepreneurship under the wing until the crisis is over, but once it is over, we will again need an increased financial space for entrepreneurs, entrepreneurial people and innovators to challenge and build the economy stronger, so that we can face future challenges with even greater force. Madam President, I would like I think it was the Moderates under Fredrik Reinfeldt who in a commercial a few years ago talked about that for every pad Thai sold rolls money into our common welfare. The Moderates are right. Of course, this is not something they have been unique with – it is a message that liberals of different colours have been putting forward for many years, and that is of course true. For every pizza sold by the local neighborhood restaurant, for every Jolt Cola purchased by a schooling school youth, for every pad Thai sold, for every consulting service sold to a pensioner who will start blogging – as my grandparents have done – and for every kitchen renovation done in a well-to-do residential area, it rolls money into our common welfare. That's where prosperity is created. It is clear that support is needed at the moment. We need to pay you back. We have filled the barns with money and wealth created by enterprising people. Now the state needs to give back some of this as support to keep enterprising people under its wing. But what we also need to do is build a long-term tax system that stops standing in the way of new ideas and for people who want to try something new. With globalisation, increased competition, an increasingly dynamic economy, automation and autonomy, it will require people who dare to follow their own ideas, start something from nothing and challenge old companies. We will need new enterprising people who will find new and better ways to travel and who may overturn the old car company or cause the old airline to go bankrupt. We will need new enterprising people who are challenging the area by area of the economy. If you want to continue to build prosperity in a globalised era with automation and autonomy, you cannot continue to have high and tough taxes on entrepreneurship and income. We must create an economic space for everyone who has a good idea and is enterprising. Anyone who has a little entrepreneurship in his blood should be able to do something real out of his idea. There has been talk here before, perhaps mainly from the left, about wanting fairer taxes. I agree, Madam President. I think we should have a fair tax system, a tax system that allows the creator of value to retain as much of the money as possible. I think that perspective has been lacking in this debate. The money we have filled the barns with for quite a few years has been created by someone. The person who created that money is basically entitled to his own money. The tax system we have today prevents low-income people from saving up for a start-up capital and an effort to buy their own apartment. It keeps people on low incomes outside the right-of-occupancy market. The tax system we have today makes it difficult for those who have a small company and want to hire another person, or perhaps want to do their first job, to be able to afford to do so. That's because we have too tough taxes. Madam President, I would like In Sweden it is too difficult to get rich. It is too difficult to make a reality of one's entrepreneurship. It is too difficult to have a new idea, create innovation and create sustainable business. When the crisis we are now in the middle of is over, we have to go back and start looking at the enterprising people who have filled the barns. They are the ones who are currently ensuring that we can buy ECMO machines and protective equipment and that we can pay salaries in health care. We need to go back and ensure that we can have more enterprising people and that those who are enterprising and making money can retain more of the wealth they create themselves. Then we can build a stronger and more dynamic economy and withstand future crises in a better way.
i-W9o8W7ft4xfyvpxSnQftne	Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-150	Madam President, I would like Normally, when normal market economy principles apply, uniform VAT is something that can be seen as desirable. However, even if a differentiated VAT system is accepted, there are sometimes problems of drawing borders, which mean that the same service is taxed differently. A review of the demarcation problems identified could be appropriate. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 2.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-151	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament. Standing in this House talking about the need to review our tax laws and the administrative burden on companies is more important than ever. Today, for many entrepreneurs, the burden is different from the purely administrative one. That is the testimony of all the companies and entrepreneurs that I talk to on a daily basis. It is a question of money being collected in order to be able to pay the running costs. At the same time, we know that it is the sum of all the burdens, large and small, which together provide less opportunities for companies to do what they are supposed to do, namely to focus on their entrepreneurship and not on bureaucracy. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, in all surveys, VAT is high on the business list when it comes to ranking administrative problems or burdens. Simplifying the daily lives of entrepreneurs can create more jobs. In the long run, it strengthens well-being. A great deal of simplification is possible in the field of VAT. The Alliance government's quarterly VAT accounting reform instead of monthly financial statements reduced the costs of companies by over SEK 300 million. For the Center Party, it is important that we can extend the simplification of VAT to more areas. Madam President, I would like VAT taxation, like other tax laws, must keep up with time. In recent years it has become increasingly clear that both legislators and authorities need to be better at managing the rapid development of society. The Swedish Tax Agency's recently published survey and analysis of the impact of the collaborative economy on the tax system is a good example of how important it is that we are fast-footed in legislation and regulations. I do not think there are any differences of party political opinion here. We all want regulations to keep up with developments. Future VAT rules will have to deal with cross-border transactions via mobile and internet. It must be done in a simple and effective way. With a simpler system, we promote growth and promote the jobs of the future. Madam President, I would like Today, when day-to-day purchases are being made in full use of mobile phones and computer screens, it is more than clear that the formal VAT system has fallen out of step with technological and economic developments. Increased use of new technologies and global services pushes forward the need to simplify for both consumers and traders. We need to join the digital society. Legislation and its application must be followed in reality. Madam President, I would like I would like to draw particular attention to one of the reservations of the Centre Party in this report. In my opinion, this is a reservation which is not only a concrete example, but which also highlights the broader problem of the VAT system. It is difficult to understand why different levels are being applied and why there is a need to review the VAT system. I'm talking about the VAT on music and dancing. It is difficult to see the logic of why culture in the form of music and dance should be taxed at 25% VAT while culture in the form of music alone is subject to significantly lower VAT. The VAT rate for music activities should reasonably be the same whether the audience or the audience dances to the music or not. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party in the report. I would also like to send a special greeting to all of us who live in our beloved Sweden. Take care of yourselves, and take care of each other! Together we are strong!
i-7a712d5170d2178e-162	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by expressing my support for our reservation No 6. Like previous speakers, I will be quite brief, but I would still like to say a few words about VAT. In my speech in the previous debate, I stressed that our tax systems must be business-friendly and that taxes and rules must be designed in a way that makes it easy to run a business. The VAT system is a system known to be anything but simple. According to the Business Board, tax rules are the most common source of the regulatory burden that many entrepreneurs are witnessing, and often it is the VAT Act that causes problems. The various VAT rates 6, 12 and 25 % bring with them a wide range of bordering problems. As Alireza Akhondi previously mentioned here, the obvious example is the different VAT rates on cultural arrangements depending on whether the audience sits down or stands up. If the audience sits down, the VAT is 6 percent, the audience stands up more than quadruple the tax to 25 percent. It may seem comical to an outsider, but for those affected it is tragic and unreasonable. Unfortunately, this is far from the only problem with the VAT law. A list of complicated VAT rules would probably be very long. The various tax rates, the many exceptions, and the exemptions, are a constant source of headaches for many organisations and companies. It is clear that policy must act to simplify this.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-166	Madam President, I would like When we submitted our parliamentary movements last September, everything was different. The sun was shining, and the late summer heat was still hanging in the air. Full of energy, we submitted our proposals to influence the direction of policy. No one knew that only a few months later a virus would spread in the world that would put it all at its head. No one could foresee the pandemic that is now taking many lives, which severely restricts our way of life and which is hitting the economy hard. Never before in modern times have so many restrictions and bans been introduced in such a short time. Who could have imagined that one day we would close our borders? But here we are. The Corona virus, as it is called, has reminded us of the fragility of life. But we have also been reminded of how much we need each other – even when it means that we should stay apart. We see community and responsibility everywhere. We see how everyone who can work from home and how our health - care heroes do more than their utmost every day. We see various initiatives from individuals doing what they can to help people at risk. We see people sharing fun posts to cheer each other up. We see solidarity between people. We also see how strong Sweden is under this test. Now in a state of crisis, society as a whole needs massive government efforts. It has become apparent even to those who have advocated a smaller society in the past. That's good. For me as a social democrat, it goes without saying that we should have strong public finances and that the whole of society takes joint responsibility. It also raises the question of how the strong society is to be financed. I believe that a larger tax debate will be needed in the near future on how to finance the needs that now exist and how to strengthen society even more. But not right now. It is clear that we have different views on, among other things, the issue of VAT, which we are discussing here today. But that is also a later question. Now we need to stick together and be exactly the strong society that we are and need to be. To conclude, I would like to respond briefly to the requests for exercise that are being dealt with today. We demand that all motion requests be rejected. It has two main reasons. One is that in most sports it is proposed to reduce VAT on a range of goods and services. This is a discussion that is always going on. This is something for which we do not want to propose any changed rules, because at present there is simply no money to implement unfunded tax cuts. Where this is not applicable, it is about the fact that there are already ongoing investigations and other work in the field of VAT that we do not want to precede. So that's the other reason. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to conclude my speech by thanking you for the patience and responsibility that you politicians from the various parties have shown and that you at home continue to show when you follow the recommendations of the Public Health Authority.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-174	Madam President, I would like I just poured a glass of water. Looks like water from the tap. Then VAT is 25%. If, instead, it had been bottled water, VAT would have been 12%. This may seem a little strange, and I share this view, just as the Liberals do. VAT and the VAT system are much too cut off by a lot of small exceptions, a lot of lobbying activities and a lot of politicians who want to fiddle the hit and the hit and give the dittan and the dattan that they care about some exceptions and disability. Water, water on the tap and water in the bottle, is an example of this, where it is of course unreasonable that there is different VAT. There are quite a few examples of this, and another is cinema. If you go to the movies, it's higher VAT than if you go to the theater. But what if you record theater and broadcast it on a screen? It has become quite popular to watch high-quality theatre from other countries on a screen. So, what's the value added tax? And if VAT differs – how big can the stage be in the theatre where you have recorded before it counts as a movie? How much props do you get? Irrespective of the exceptions to the basic VAT, the uniform VAT, it is strange. There's gonna be some weird border-drawing problems. What has been called the dance band debate has been raised here before. If you go to a regular concert, a concert with a band playing live music, it is lower VAT than if people in the audience dance, for example at a dance band concert. That might seem simple. You might think that then we change the VAT so that it will be the same kind of reduced VAT on dance bands as it is on live bands. It's just that it'll be unfair for someone new. This makes it unfair for those who have, for example, a dance performance with recorded music but not with live bands. It can also be unfair for those who have recorded music and have par dance on the schedule, for it then gets a little higher VAT than the one who has a regular concert. But if we change it and allow a lower VAT rate only for those who arrange the dance, it will be unfair for those who arrange discos with recorded music but without live bands. This is the problem with the VAT system. If you start fiddling a little here, tinker a little there and hit some hit and hit, we will get a VAT system that is completely intransvisable. And we do today. I could ask quite a few people who are not on the tax committee but who are Members of Parliament: what kind of VAT do you think it is to ride a taxi, to ride a dog sled and to ride a horse and a wagon? Most would probably not be able to say what VAT rate it is on taxis, dog sleds and horses and carriages. And there are very few people who could justify why there are different VAT rates. If you have been to the recorded theatre show and are going home from there and want to go a bit nicer, with a horse and carriage, it is strange that you have to pay more VAT than if you take a taxi. If you live in a place where there is a lot of snow, it would be reasonable to pay the same VAT for dog sleds as for taxis, but that is not the case, for dog sleds and horses and carriages are considered entertainment and not passenger transport. Taxis, just like ski lifts, are passenger transport and not entertainment. However, the times I have taken a taxi or ski lift, Madam President, it has quite often been associated with entertainment. It's strange when the VAT system is as damaged as it is now. But this is not just a problem because it puts a brake on the economy. This is not just a problem because it is strange and something about which we can make ridiculous speeches in this House. This is a problem because it also opens up corruption. If you have a VAT system where there are so many different exceptions here and there, it opens up to corruption and because politicians, for example a politician who is not on the tax committee, but in some other committee that deals with some other policy area, would like to have some exceptions in their particular policy area. It opens up, Madam President, because a politician who meets a lobbyist from a specific sector may think that there are votes to fish if you give a little reduction in VAT precisely for the companies in that industry. A politician who comes from a county where you ride a lot of dog sleds may think: If we create exceptions for those who come right where I come from, I can pull in some votes. Madam President, I would like The VAT system and the fact that it is so cut is not a problem just for the economy. It is a problem for democracy, because it opens up corruption and arbitrary exceptions and makes the whole tax system look unserious. Of course we should have a more uniform VAT. I look forward to future reforms in which we make the VAT system more uniform so that we eliminate this corruption and the exceptions and ensure that we have an economy that is transparent and easy to understand.
i-Xzp2uoKLhx56zJWsJpvioV	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of State Anders Ygeman, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde and Minister Jennie Nilsson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-184	Madam President, I would like I address myself to the Secretary of State. Some day ago it was announced that the government is allocating another SEK 10 million to consular assistance for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. This is much needed and necessary, because there are still a number of Swedes abroad who cannot get home. It is also becoming more and more difficult when air routes are withdrawn and airports are shut down. It is both old and young, sick and healthy and people at risk. Like many colleagues, I now receive a number of e-mails and calls from worried people and parents and from worried citizens who are stuck on different continents. For example, I have received several emails today from people stranded in Peru. About a hundred are in Lima, and they perceive that they do not receive the support or help they would like. My question to the Foreign Minister, Madam President, is what we can do about this now that we are spending more money. This is, of course, a consular emergency for many people, such as those who are stranded in Peru.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-188	Madam President, I would like I really understand the frustration that a lot of Swedes feel that is stuck abroad. It is true that as long as there are commercial opportunities, it is the individual traveller who is allowed to take responsibility and turn to his airline, his insurance company and his travel agency. I note that various travel companies such as Ving, Apollo and Tui have been very effective in bringing their travellers home in the last few days. Last night Ving had a plane full of Swedes flying home from Spain. Nevertheless, there may be situations where there is absolutely no commercial route. That's why we have to support those places. We have already done so in Morocco and Tunisia, and now we are planning to see how we can help home, especially those in Peru. But there are also other countries where the situation is now so difficult that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has to go in more actively. Hence this increase in consular support.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-192	Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, it is a good thing that the funds for consular aid are now being increased. It is good that the activity level is also increased. We can see that a number of countries are now being literally shut down. Airports are shut down, hotels are shut down and restaurants are shut down. This puts people in an incredibly difficult and precarious situation on other continents. That is why I think it is important that we now recognise the increasing crisis situation that exists. I am particularly pleased that the Foreign Minister has now mentioned Peru. I hope we can see that the stranded there receive the aid they need.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-195	Madam President, I would like Yes, that's right. We have been extremely active in both providing information and offering places when there are planes from other countries where Swedes can be involved. Everyone who can therefore needs to download the app UD Resklar. Then they can get push notifications and text messages directly to get information that now it is for example another Nordic country that has helped; now Sweden has made sure that they get help. We get 1,500 calls a day to the State Department right now, so it's a hard pressure.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-199	Madam President, I would like Sweden has been hit hard by the Chinese virus, but by developments in other states we have the worst ahead of us. We must therefore limit the spread of the disease in order to save lives but also provide the industry with the necessary support. Today we risk losing hundreds of thousands of jobs and tens of thousands of small businesses. Workers and entrepreneurs around the country live in uncertainty and insecurity. The government has taken measures, but they are deemed insufficient. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise described yesterday the government's actions as good but not strong enough. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is whether the government is considering, like Denmark and the United Kingdom for example, providing direct support to small businesses to cover revenue forgone and not merely providing loans and reduced costs.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-202	Madam President, I would like Yes, we are in a very difficult position. We will do our utmost to combat this infection. I note that Tobias Andersson, like the American President, is trying to name it ethnically, but this is a problem we have all over the world. It affects people. We must do our utmost to protect human lives. At the same time, we see that it has severe consequences for business for many different reasons. People are concerned because our closest trading partners are closing their borders, and that brings consequences. The government has taken a large number of measures only in the last ten days, including ensuring that companies have liquidity so that they do not go bankrupt for that reason. We have also picked up costs such as employer's contributions, rental costs and salary costs. We do not exclude any measure to ensure that Swedish industry is supported in this difficult situation.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-205	Madam President, I would like If we do not take adequate measures now and therefore fail to keep small businesses alive, then there is a risk that the total cost of this crisis will be far greater than the measures announced. The government has regularly expanded its support efforts. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs answer if the government is currently holding back any potential future measures?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-207	Madam President, I would like Like every wise government, we sit and hope for the best but plan from a number of scenarios – also because if things get worse and worse. Against this background, it is important to keep gunpowder dry but also to have freedom of action to take action gradually, as reality changes – sometimes because of what happens here and sometimes because of the measures taken by our main trading partners. We are prepared to act to protect people's health but also to mitigate the effects on companies and employees.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-210	Madam President, I would like My question goes primarily to Rural Minister Jennie Nilsson. The support package that has now come from the government together with the Center Party and the Liberals is of course incredibly important for a great many small and medium-sized enterprises. But it also creates a great many questions, detailed questions and others, to which we, as Members, cannot answer. Therefore, the ultimate public service at the far end of the countryside is incredibly important to ensure that the public service in the form of Försäkringskassan, the Tax Agency and other offices is in place. But it is also much more vulnerable in these times because those offices are often manned by few people and are therefore very dependent on people.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-214	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Rickard Nordin, for the question! It is a pretty good analysis that we are somewhere in a constant moving matter. The government has been very active and made a number of decisions, more than any government in Sweden has ever made within this timeframe. But that also means, of course, that in some sense it will be a challenge for the entrepreneur or private individual who will try to take part in all the support measures that exist. Here it is important to have a strong dialogue, especially with municipalities, regions and county boards, on how to package the existing proposals, measures and offers in different ways and to work proactively to obtain information. We politicians, both those in government and all other politicians, have both a responsibility and a great opportunity to communicate widely in the media all the measures that are now being taken.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-217	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share the view that we Members have a great deal of responsibility, not least when it comes to maintaining calm and calm the concerns that often exist. Nevertheless, there are also many detailed questions that the authorities need to answer, and then it is extremely important that there are authorities in place, not just digitally. I would urge the government to ensure that this exists, even in times when people can fall from because of disease or quarantine-like measures. It is incredibly important for companies to be able to take advantage of the measures and get the answers they need.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-219	Madam President, I would like I have no opinion other than that of the honourable Member that it is important that we maintain public services throughout Sweden, including in rural areas. The Social Insurance Agency and the tax offices were mentioned, and the Public Employment Service could also be mentioned in this context. We all have a common responsibility, in the situation where we are, to ensure that the structures work, and this is an important part of this.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-221	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for the Foreign Minister in the light of political developments in the light of the Corona crisis. We are now seeing how authoritarian states are taking the opportunity to introduce more repressive measures. In Hungary, Viktor Orbán has increased his power and can now rule the country with decrees. In Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu has introduced mobile surveillance of virus victims in a gigantic mass surveillance. At the same time, we see state actors spreading disinformation and fake news. A lot of statistics pass through our eyes daily, and one may sometimes wonder about the truthfulness of some countries' tasks. Furthermore, there are states such as the United States, whose extensive sanctions actively contribute to the shortage of medical supplies in other states whose political leaderships are disliked. This contributes to increased spread of infection. My questions are what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks about the development of authoritarian states in the wake of the Corona crisis and how the Minister views statistics on Corona coming from countries such as Russia and China. What does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think about the US sanctions against Iran and Venezuela, which are now contributing to increased spread of infection?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-226	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! One of the major problems ahead, when we have overcome the worst crisis of infection, disease and death itself, is precisely what effects this will have on the entire international system and cooperation. We can see that authoritarian states have made very active use of the crisis, both through active misinformation and by using practices that go against human rights and international law. For example, a legislative proposal to extend the state of emergency has been tabled in Hungary. It is so far a proposal, but we are closely following and analysing developments. From both Russia and China comes disinformation about Sweden, and we try to respond to that. The issue was also raised on Monday by EU foreign ministers.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-228	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. In a troubled time, we democrats need to be clear. Crisises should not be used by authoritarian leaders to impose authoritarian measures. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should therefore speak clearly every day. As more and more attacks are coming on democratic countries such as Sweden, we need to be clear that viruses can also be combated using democratic methods. Above all, we need to be clear on global cooperation, in which we, who have more resources, take greater responsibility to help all those affected.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-229	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Håkan Svenneling that we need to take a great deal of responsibility. Sweden has also, for example, added an extra 40 million to the WHO, and Sida is now providing some of its assistance to strengthen health systems in countries where they are weak, so that even in these countries they can better meet the spread of the infection.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-230	Madam President, I would like Four out of five jobs are created by small businesses. Now many of these jobs are at risk of disappearing for good because of the current situation. The government's support package that came yesterday was long awaited by small businesses, but that is not enough. More is needed to save jobs and businesses. Among other things, we Christian Democrats have argued that lay-offs should be strengthened. We believe that lay-off should be possible up to 90 per cent, with a reduction of nearly 80 per cent in the company's wage costs. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry and LO have also raised the issue of strengthened lay-off as important. I would therefore like to ask Minister Baylan whether the government is prepared to take on board the Christian Democrats' proposal to implement such a reinforcement now. Next week, it might be too late.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-233	Madam President, I would like We're in a very difficult position. I believe that in such a difficult situation, which we have never, I believe, experienced in any country in peacetime, it is important that we try to help each other. Then the government's entrance is not to dismiss proposals. At the same time, we have been working intensively over the past few weeks to come up with proposals and measures to mitigate the effects on our companies and on employees. It has been about everything from short-term lay-off, which we presented last week, to ensuring that there is liquidity. We have provided resources so that the companies can both borrow via Almi and receive guarantees via the banks. It has been about rent reductions and temporary reductions in employers' contributions. These measures, as Camilla Brodin says, are welcome. We will continue to monitor developments. We do not rule out the need for further action, but we have taken strong action in recent days.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-236	Madam President, I would like For every day that goes by there is no revenue that will never be able to be taken back. In the tourism industry, hotels, restaurants and many others will need to be closed down. Measures must be taken in advance. A strong point made to us, and certainly also to the government, concerns the extremely high interest-rate costs of deferred tax payments. I therefore wonder whether the government is prepared to act here for a substantial reduction.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-238	Madam President, I would like Early in a crisis it is precisely liquidity that is in danger, not least for companies in the service industry, where the buffers may not be so large. We have worked intensively over the last ten days to develop additional tools. We see, despite the discussions on interest rates, that the number of small businesses that have reported interest in gaining access to liquidity enhancements is record-high, even greater than at the corresponding time during the financial crisis.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-240	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of State. With reference to the Corona crisis, the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, has now tabled a bill which gives him almost dictatorial powers, without any deadline. In practice, on Tuesday, the Hungarian Parliament can give its Prime Minister a life-long mandate to govern Hungary with exceptional laws. This, of course, is completely unreasonable. It violates the most basic standards of democracy and the rule of law, and it is also happening right in the heart of Europe. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: what readiness and willingness is there to deal with the huge setback for democracy and human rights that is in danger of following in the wake of the pandemic?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-242	Madam President, I would like Many countries in our own region of the European Union have also taken extraordinary measures to limit the spread of the Corona virus, and we must be vigilant so that such measures do not become detrimental to the principles of the rule of law, democracy and international law. As I said in my previous reply to Mr Svenneling, the Hungarian legislative proposal to extend the state of emergency so far is only one proposal, but we are following and analysing developments and are prepared for a dialogue with stakeholders if the legislative proposal should come into force. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has also written to the Hungarian Government and offered dialogue and support in order to ensure that the new law, if any, meets the requirements of the rule of law. It is worrying that the International Research Institute Varieties of Democracy at the University of Gothenburg has now ranked Hungary as the first EU country with an authoritarian regime and not as a liberal democracy.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for everything! It is gratifying that the government is following this closely, and we will have to do so in the future. Viktor Orbán is notorious for his attacks on liberal, open society. In Sweden we have closed borders and limited freedom of assembly and other things, but these are temporary rules that are then rolled back when the crisis is over. The serious thing about Hungary is that it is prepared to do this without any stop dates or other checks and balances, as it is called.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-247	Madam President, I would like We are very concerned about the democratic development of several EU Member States. The EU is now making efforts to reverse negative developments in the principles of the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights. We always say that Europe's fundamental values are not negotiable. We therefore also welcome the fact that the European Commission is now working on a mechanism to highlight how the principles of the rule of law are to be applied in all Member States.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-249	Madam President, I would like I have a good deal for Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Undeniably, these are special and difficult times in which we find ourselves, and they are testing the solidarity and cohesion of our country. The crisis is hitting both people and companies hard right now, and so it is gratifying that the government has acted quickly and presented three support packages in a very short time. At the same time, the situation is extreme, and, for example, tourism and restaurants have taken an extremely heavy blow in the start of the crisis. One group that is sometimes forgotten is Sweden's self-employed. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is simply: what is being done for Sweden's hundreds of thousands of self-employed workers?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-253	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is a tough time, and Mathias Tegnér puts his finger on a group that is easily forgotten in the rather precarious situation we have. It is also a group that can be particularly sensitive. As a self-employed person, you may not have much of a buffer. In the package we presented yesterday, we have set out a measure to help and make it easier for these very self-employed people. They can recover the tax they have paid for 2019 and pay it later or set it off against future losses within six years instead. This can, I believe, be a great relief for the self-employed who are doing great work and at the moment may not have much demand for their services. That is why we are doing this to help them.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-256	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Enterprise. This is a welcome message to Sweden's self-employed. What is important is also that support is provided to self-employed people and quickly. My question is: how can we ensure that aid also becomes a reality for self-employed workers who are experiencing liquidity problems right now?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-257	Madam President, I would like This is a proposal and a measure that will take effect. The important thing in this context – here I would like to address the self-employed in our country – is that you have to apply for this yourself, so that you can get it started, get help with the liquidity and, if we now have a long, tough period ahead of us, get rid of this against future losses and thus manage your business. The call is therefore: Apply from now on!
i-7a712d5170d2178e-258	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Jennie Nilsson. Me and the Government share a commitment to biogas. It has an incredible number of advantages. Not least in these times, it can be said that it is a form of local energy production, which is important from the point of view of security policy and with regard to security issues in general. That is, to say the least, relevant at the moment. It has circularity, double climate benefits and great benefits for Swedish agriculture in the form of increased sales and that you can return nutrition to the fields. It is important to support biogas in these times. My question concerns the aid that exists: tax exemptions, methane gas reduction aid and also the temporary aid that exists. How does the Government view these subsidies, and is there reason to develop and raise them?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for the question. This is an urgent and important question related to Sweden's ability to change and become a fossil-independent welfare country, which is a pronounced ambition of the government. Here I think it is important that you work very concretely and clearly with different types of incentives, what you usually call carrots, but perhaps also with other measures. What we have done above all now – given that I have a short time to answer – is that we have set up an investigation that will look, above all, at what it takes to get a fossil-independent agriculture. Part of this is about ensuring that the incentives that exist are well shifted into a new system, where, as a base, you retain competitiveness neutrality when it comes to fuels but at the same time think that it should be in a fossil-free context.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-265	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for everything! What is gratifying is that the demand for biogas is now increasing. It is large and will continue to increase, not least in the case of liquid biogas, which can of course be used by heavy traffic and industry. At the same time, however, we have the problematic competitive situation with Denmark, which is why long-term aid is important. Can the Government say anything more about how we are considering making them long-term and stable over time?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-266	Madam President, I would like There are basically two important ways of getting something to be sustainable over time in a democracy. One is that we are working very clearly within the framework of the European Union, so that we do not get a great variety of national measures that compete with each other nations. The second is to ensure that we get a broad political foundation in the Riksdag for proposals that mean that there are conditions for long-termism.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-267	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ygeman. In these coronatimes, many physical work meetings are replaced by digital ones. This also applies to health care interventions. The government has announced 650 million over three years for broadband expansion in rural areas. 136 million will be announced this year. Only four regions will be able to take part of this money this year, and the Region of Jämtland Härjedalen is not included among these four. The county is also different from other rural areas in that people live scattered throughout the region and that commercial operators are often uninterested in building broadband without community support. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency believes that 22 billion are needed to reach the government's broadband target and that 650 million over three years is not enough.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-272	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for the question! It may be worth recalling that according to the European Commission, Sweden has the best broadband coverage and the best broadband coverage in rural areas. 86% of households in Sweden have access to high-speed networks in their immediate vicinity. We also see that the gap between country and city has narrowed over the past year and that broadband expansion is more than twice as fast in rural areas as it is in urban areas. This is what we want to build on by adding SEK 650 million more. However, successful broadband deployment at the far end also requires commercial broadband deployment. It is gratifying that, in principle, all the major players bear witness to their continuing commercial expansion. Then we can have political support where it is needed most and a good commercial expansion in essence.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-274	Madam President, I would like Broadband development in rural areas is not an issue that concerns only those living outside urban areas. Authorities, regions, municipalities and also the business community depend on being able to reach their residents and customers, not least in times like these. Ensuring equal access to broadband is therefore extremely important. The issue is more topical than ever, and this requires even more efforts from the government.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-276	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with that. The Swedish Parliament has set high ambitions for broadband coverage: that all Swedish citizens should have access to a fast connection where they live and work. I am pleased that there is broad agreement in Parliament on both that objective and the measures we are taking to achieve it.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-279	Madam President, I would like We are in a crisis where our entire country is crippled by the rise of the Corona virus. The number of infected and deceased is increasing. Those over 70 years of age are urged to isolate themselves. A restraining order has been imposed on retirement homes and field hospitals have been put into service. However, Sweden is one of the countries in Europe with the lowest number of intensive care places. Protection equipment is lacking, and the government is suspected to have been naive and have not taken sufficient measures for the safety of its population in time. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: is the government sufficiently prepared for covid-19 so that we are spared the worst possible scenario, like that in Spain, where health professionals flee nursing homes and the residents are forced to walk around among corpses and dying neighbors?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-281	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this is not only new, but it also affects the whole world in a way that we have never seen before. We are in a very difficult time. This threatens human lives, and it is an enormous effort for the medical apparatus. But, of course, it also affects our companies and our employees in a way that we have never seen before. In that situation, I think it is important that we do not try to score party political points but that we work together to face this rather difficult crisis. There is a responsibility on the part of the regions to provide the necessary equipment for the provision of healthcare services, but it is quite clear, not only in Sweden but throughout the world, that there is not enough protective equipment to meet this crisis. We work intensively with healthcare and with the private business community to ensure that this is gradually resolved. But it is a challenge, and it is for the whole world.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-285	Madam President, I would like Yeah, it's not just a challenge. It's a big crisis. When this crisis is over, my hope is that our nation has not been hit as badly as is feared and that the government does not say that they have been naive. My thoughts go so long to all of you—us—who will suffer this. May strength be with us.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-286	Madam President, I would like This is one of the finest things about this country: When we're in crisis – and we've done that on and off, but this is very different from those we've seen before – we often have the ability to work together in politics and with the business community. We stick together in our country. I think it is the best way to tackle this crisis, which is quite unusual and which we have never seen before. What I am pleased about is that most people share that view.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-288	Madam President, I would like I'll put my question to Minister Jennie Nilsson. It is about the consequences of the Corona, which affects us all when we close our borders. Many people who usually come here and work on a seasonal basis do not have the opportunity to do so, and this affects the green industries, our food producers. That means they're now screaming for labor. Right now, there are actually growers out in our country who don't know whether to plant or not, because they don't know if they can harvest. The LRF says that this is about 8 000 jobs.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-291	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the question! We have very early started with very good conversations with the whole food chain. We meet regularly and have almost daily reconciliations about the challenges you see here and now and what you assess is around the corner. One of the issues clearly identified in this work is precisely the problem of a week or two entering the season. Historically, or at least for quite some time, they have been very dependent on the fact that they have been able to bring workers from other countries, including from third countries. In this context, Sweden has not taken any decisions to close Sweden's borders in any way other than following a recommendation made by the EU. It is now looking at how this is to be applied and interpreted. However, no matter how it lands, I think we need to be prepared for this to be a major challenge.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-294	Madam President, I would like Yes, there will be major challenges, because it is actually about the level of supply, and it is about filling in our business when the shelves become empty. If the farmers now hesitate that they can start growing, the risk is enormous. That's why we need to make it easier for anyone who could work there, and that's a lot of people. There is every reason for the Minister to take action, and quickly. But what will the minister do now?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-296	Madam President, I would like That is quite correct. If there is no sowing, there will be no harvest – I am thinking above all of the sowing for next year. This is therefore important and urgent. Given that we consider that there will be problems regardless of how interpretations and applications fall out, we are now looking at opportunities for the social partners, together with the trade unions, to find ways to solve, for example, problems with layoffs and notice – these are people who are being laid off and alerted especially on the hotel and restaurant side – so that these people can easily find their way into these industries. We also have discussions with SLU and the Natural Use Upper Secondary School in this area.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-299	Madam President, I would like I would like to tie in with an earlier issue of broadband roll-out. It is incredibly important that more and more meetings can take place over the phone or in a digital way in these coronatimes. But it is a problem, especially in sparsely populated areas. As many as one in five households in Sweden today lack good broadband. And we can't see that broadband expansion is increasing in Sweden, rather that it has gone off. Our municipal networks are the ones that connect most households to functioning broadband. They say that they could quickly expand much more broadband if they were to get an exception to the so-called localisation principle so that they can connect even households in neighbouring municipalities.
i-6pD9pHU7zyNwbT4g1R9Nvy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! The simple answer is yes. We have already started work in this particular direction. This is mainly about those who are on the edge of a municipality and who are closer to a municipality centre in another municipality, so that it will be economically beneficial to build from that municipality. This is something that the government has taken hold of and that we see before us. Then we have made it easier in other ways that enable municipalities to build in border zones. Then I'd like to make a little correction. According to the latest EU statistics, 86% of Swedes have access to high-speed broadband. If you then add mobile data, i.e. via mobile telephony, you get an even higher number.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-304	Madam President, I would like I welcome the Minister's reply, but I believe that if the Minister goes beyond Stockholm's borders, he will find that we have major problems with the functioning of broadband in many parts of our country. Much more needs to be done. As I said, I welcome the fact that the Minister wants to make it easier for municipal network companies to connect households to neighbouring municipalities. How does the Minister intend to do this?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-306	Madam President, I would like I understand that this is a rhetorical point, but perhaps it is the wrong time for Stockholmers to leave the city and go out into the country. We simply want to enable municipalities to expand broadband in neighbouring municipalities. We have already taken a first step in this direction. Some municipalities have begun, but we believe that more is needed. We need to look at how we can further increase the expansion. In Sweden, all citizens must have access to a fast broadband connection.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-310	Madam President, I would like Many questions here today are about the coronavirus, and so is my question, which I would like to address to Minister Ygeman. One of the consequences of the Corona crisis is, as the previous questioner Jens Holm said, that many meetings take place digitally. We see that a large part of the population is at home, either because of working at home or because of being on sick leave or in quarantine. This is, of course, important for us to move forward in the crisis and ensure that it is managed as well as possible, but at the same time it affects broadband capacity. The European Commission and several countries have called on the major streaming services to reduce image quality in order not to overload mobile and broadband networks within the EU. My question to the Government is therefore: what is the capacity situation in Sweden today?
i-GZGFrhj4SL3JTKQW1WVFZA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Löfstrand, for the question! The capacity situation looks very good. Only yesterday I gathered the whole business and got a picture. The situation is good both in mobile networks and in broadband networks. For Sweden, we have had no need for Netflix, Youtube or any of the other suppliers to reduce speed. We can handle far more people who work from home and use videoconferencing, and we can also do much more who want to watch a good Friday or Saturday movie. Now that some are involuntary at home, it might be a good time to see that movie they have longed to see.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-315	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. It is nice to hear that the Swedish broadband network is stable and that we have a high capacity. I think this is important for the future. Although many of the issues today are about the Corona crisis and the enormous challenges that we have here and now, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can't shine a little on the door and think about what challenges he looks forward. Although we have a well-developed network, there is more to do.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-318	Madam President, I would like What we are seeing now is the big breakthrough for digital learning and meetings. I think we have never seen such a rapid increase in digital learning and meetings as we have now. Of course, we want to continue to build Sweden strongly so that we are the country in the world that is best at taking advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation and taking advantage of the huge boost for digital meeting places and digital learning. This can give Sweden a position of strength.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-321	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Baylan a question. Now, of course, both the Swedish parliament and the Swedish government want to focus on dealing with the consequences of the coronavirus, especially in terms of health but also in terms of the economic consequences. The Moderates support many of the measures introduced by the government. We note and welcome the fact that the Government has taken on board the proposals on business packages presented by the Moderates. However, I can see that there has been a restriction on employers' contributions. Only companies with under 30 employees can benefit from relief in terms of employers' contributions, and the relief must not exceed SEK 30 000 per worker. The Moderates have no ceiling on these measures at all. I'd like a description. Why this limitation?
i-AaAdgPKPvRRgaVxtv2V383	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Green, for the question! I can clarify some of the facts of the case. I would like to start by saying that we are engaged in a close dialogue with the business community, and we will continue to conduct this dialogue to see how we can mitigate the effects of the crisis. As Mats Green said, it affects not only human life and our society, but also our business community and our employees. As to why we have set a limit, the relief applies to all companies but only to up to 30 employees. Even if you have 31 employees, you get up to 30. Why have we set the limit at a salary of 25 000? Because, above all, we want to target the support of the many small businesses which are currently having a very difficult time. In this way, we can make it easier by reducing the costs they have by abolishing the non-retirement part of the employer's contribution.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-327	Madam President, I would like After the first stage of the crisis, which is now being fully addressed, we can see signs of a labour market crisis with a sharp rise in unemployment. That is precisely why I find the restrictions regrettable, because they strike in terms of unemployment. We can see that the sectors most affected at the moment are the sectors where most people get their first job.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-329	Madam President, I would like For ten days, the government has presented a large number of proposals. Short-term work is about going in and helping with the wage costs for both small and large companies. Employers' contributions are about cutting costs. We also target the tourism industry directly to help with the rental cost, which is a large fixed cost for many restaurants and small businesses. In addition, we run liquidity efforts to ensure that these companies can manage.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-331	Madam President, I would like Much of our attention today is directed towards the Corona situation in Sweden and in the world, so also during this Question Time. This also leads to another effect that we do not talk much about, namely that the wars, conflicts and humanitarian disasters that existed in the world before the Corona infection still exist. They're still going on, but unfortunately they're forgotten. The Minister for Foreign Affairs visited Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Yemen about a month ago to continue the work that Sweden has engaged in in creating peace in one of the absolutely worst war situations and humanitarian situations that currently exist in the world, namely the war in Yemen.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-335	Madam President, I would like It is just as Kenneth G. Forslund says that, unfortunately, war, conflict and humanitarian disasters continue in full spite of the Corona, and it does not get better. As the only foreign minister to date since the Yemeni crisis broke out five years ago, I was able to visit Aden in Yemen for a whole day and see on the spot the terrible and bombed-up city and these disasters. We have been very active from the Swedish side, and the Stockholm agreement that exists is still under way. But there's more left. What I have done is, among other things, that I have brought the experience to Europe and told my colleagues. We then decided that Yemen should be included as its own item on the EU's agenda. It has not been done, if it has even been done, for many years and so on.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-338	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. What can be said about those parties who are directly but, above all, indirectly involved in this? This is in practice what is called a proxy war. Saudi Arabia was one of the countries visited. But Iran is another party to this. What do these parties now say about the war and the conditions for actually implementing the peace agreement?
i-7a712d5170d2178e-339	Madam President, I would like My absolute conviction is that Saudi Arabia is prepared to look at how to end the situation. There are several countries that have either withdrawn completely, like the United Arab Emirates, or do not want to contribute more troops. When it comes to the Huthians, who are the opposite, Iran is behind them. So I called the Iranian Foreign Minister and asked him to help support peace talks.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-340	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ygeman. On Postnord's website you can read that Postnord, like many other companies, has problems with many being sick. Especially in the situation that we have right now is a way for especially older people who need medicines to get them to order them online and get them delivered directly home. It is therefore important that postal deliveries can continue to function as normal, not least in view of this.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-342	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for the question. One might consider whether it is the Minister for Economic Affairs or me who will answer this question. I am responsible for the Postal Act, and the Minister for Enterprise is responsible for the company itself. But of course we have continuous contact, both with Postnord and with the other postal suppliers in the Swedish market to ensure that they manage to maintain their service. I spoke only yesterday with the President of the Postnord. Postnord's picture is that you have good conditions to do this despite the increased sickness rates. Some of these diseases are an effect of people wisely choosing to stay at home even though they have mild symptoms. However, the assessment by Postnord, and I assume that the other postal companies make the same assessment, is that good postal services will be maintained even if the situation worsens.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-344	Madam President, I would like The Corona virus is testing our country and us as humans. We all have a great responsibility to prevent the spread of the disease. One consequence of this is that you, who are over 70 years of age, are invited to stay at home. Another consequence is that small and medium-sized enterprises are a little concerned, both owners and staff, about the way things are going. Therefore, it is now even more important to have a policy that holds Sweden together. For people living in rural and rural areas, grocery stores play a major role in local community services. The retail trade is important. It often offers other services, such as being a representative for pharmacies, Systembolaget and parcel delivery. It would have major consequences if these shops were to be forced to close down.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-347	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Sätherberg for the question. This is an issue that is important whether it is coronatides or not. In order for the countryside to have an attractiveness, it is very important that it is a reasonable distance to a store to buy milk, pick up pharmacy products or post a letter. For this reason, the Government has previously focused on both operating aid and investment aid specifically aimed at rural traders. It is a measure that we have reinforced and extended linked to this year's budget. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to say that, in the current situation, I believe that people may have noticed how important it is to actually have a trader close. We talk a lot about that one should not bunker and so on, and that should not be done. But it is clear that each one needs to take responsibility for reviewing the situation. How far do I have to the nearest store? What does my social situation look like? Hopefully, this also means that more people will benefit their local trader.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-350	Madam President, I would like We have a Corona crisis. The Moderates have presented a crisis package aimed at saving many companies and jobs in Sweden. The government presented a package yesterday. We agree on several parts of this. It is about lay-offs, tax suspensions, initiatives to avoid employers' contributions and rents, to name but a few parts of this. But there are also a lot of questions raised by the country's entrepreneurs. What are the rules? What percentages apply? Are I and my company covered by this or not? Quick and simple management can be crucial for the delivery of the measures to future crisis-stricken companies. Unnecessary bureaucracy and lack of information could, conversely, lead to the loss of businesses and jobs.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-353	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Helmered for an important question. It is just as he says, namely that we have probably never seen in our country the kind of package and measures that we are now taking. In ten days we have presented a large number of measures both to ensure that costs are reduced for companies and to increase liquidity. We have never seen the speed of this before, but it is necessary on the basis of the crisis that we have. Of course, it is not just the government and the Government Office that are working intensively. We also have a close dialogue with the authorities so that they also make sure to reach out with information and quickly handle the many efforts that the government and parliament now decide on. We are in a very precarious situation where both demand and supply are disrupted at the same time, as we have never seen before. That is why it is important that we do this as well as we can, as quickly as we can and in a legally certain way.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-355	Madam President, I would like Stopping the spread of infection is crucial. While healthcare is fighting the virus, we need to ensure that the shock to the economy and jobs in Sweden is dealt with, not least in this House. The speed of the whistle is now higher than it was during the financial crisis. In addition to notice, many hourly, needy and self-employed workers have already been severely affected. Efforts are now needed to halt the wave of notice in the short term and to halt the trend of more and more people losing their jobs. But we also need to raise our eyes and plan for the future. We already need to ensure that we are equipping Sweden's conversion capacity, the opportunity for the labour market to change.
i-DTvHN2cpHznbxZnLMfnsQS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Malmqvist, for the question. This is a precarious situation. We are both taking and will continue to take measures to mitigate the effects, but unfortunately there is much to suggest that we have not seen the worst yet and that it will even be able to get worse before it gets better again. In parallel with the fact that we are now presenting measures after measures to mitigate the effects on employees and companies, we also have work in progress on how we can ensure that, not least, those young people who today lose their jobs in, for example, the restaurant industry or the tourism industry can have access to training so that they can use a very boring situation to strengthen their skills. In this way they can come out and perhaps even be more competitive in the labour market and contribute in a completely different way. In parallel with taking these fairly rapid measures, we are also working to ensure that the Swedish economy can get stronger out of this if possible, depending on how long the crisis is going on.
i-7a712d5170d2178e-362	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is first and foremost a life and health crisis, but at the same time we see that we are currently in the midst of an economic crisis. Parliament and government have a responsibility to protect people's jobs, to protect companies and to ensure that we get through the crisis that we have just entered. Parliament and government must do this together. It is gratifying that the government has met the Moderates with regard to some of the proposals the Moderates have made to mitigate the effects of the crisis, but it will need to be done much more. We Moderates want to act more forcefully. We see that countries like Germany are putting forward much bigger packages at this stage of the crisis than, for example, Sweden is doing in relation to its GDP. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs see a need for more decisive measures than those which have so far been taken?
i-pQcAc9DmM6GN1XxuNAzwk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl, for the question! There'll be a day when we're through this crisis. I think it is appropriate to compare how countries have done, for example, in order to learn from what is good. I also believe that we are in a situation where many people are seeking, both in terms of combating the corona virus itself and its effects on life and health, and in terms of many of the measures that are now being taken. My view is that the strong measures taken by the government over the last ten days – such as short-term work, reduction of costs in the form of renting and social security contributions and liquidity enhancements – are as competitive as those in other countries. We also have different perspectives. The Swedish Government has tried to have a slightly longer perspective in many of these measures, while many other countries have had a slightly shorter perspective. What's the best perspective? Yes, we will be able to evaluate this when we hopefully one day are through this crisis.
