i-1cf390828b173add-0	Madam President, I would like Lars Thomsson and Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström have in each of their interpellation asked me a number of questions about emergency airports and support for regional airports. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The spread of the new Corona virus causing the covid disease ‐ 19 has resulted in a significant reduction in air traffic. This is a clear consequence of reducing the spread of infection in society. As a result, the economy of the airports in Sweden has also been affected. Since the establishment of the existing emergency airport system in 2012, there have been changes in the world that have affected the conditions for emergency airports. There is a need to carry out a review to assess the efficiency, functionality and effectiveness of the current system. The Government therefore decided in December 2019 to instruct Trafikverket to review the Swedish contingency airports. The mission shall be reported by 15 June 2020 at the latest. B. Tool airports have an important role to play in ensuring preparedness for essential public air transport operations regardless of the time of day. The Government has proposed that 20 new billion be added to the municipal sector by 2020, of which SEK 12.5 billion is a permanent addition. Most of the non-governmental airports are municipally owned. Swedavia has the possibility to use general government measures in connection with the new coronavirus, such as State aid in the case of short-term lay-offs. In this context, I would like to mention that the non-governmental regional airports receive annually about SEK 103 million in state operating grants. The state also finances emergency preparedness at emergency airports.
i-1cf390828b173add-5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. I am not going to repeat my entire interpellation here, but the question I raised in the interpellation was: how does the Minister intend to ensure that the role played by regional airports from the point of view of war and crisis preparedness is maintained during and after the current crisis? Unfortunately, I have to say that the Minister's answer is: not at all. In his reply, the Minister refers, among other things, to the extra billions that a collective opposition forced the government to allocate in an additional amending budget. But that money is distributed to municipalities depending on the population base and has nothing to do with airports. It is not the case that the municipalities that have regional airports receive extra money there. And airports will compete with the huge holes that are now being dug in the local economy through loss of income, increased costs of care, protective equipment and so on, and not least school and other things. Then how do you solve this? The government is now forcing municipalities to make a priority. Of course, airports will be prioritised down to the benefit of health and life. And if you don't have money in the municipal budget, there's no money. Madam President, I would like We all remember the big fire summer 2018. It's only been two years. For some time there were six fire-extinguishing aircraft and a lot of helicopters stationed at the regional airport in Sveg. Today is June 1st. The fire hazard is again great or very great in large parts of the country. The difference with 2018 is that many airports today have no or very small operations. Staff are alerted or short-term, air traffic controllers are losing access and we risk having very large and serious problems in the event of a repeat of the summer of 2018. Madam President, I would like About a month ago I was at a presentation that the organization Transport Companies Flyg had. It found that at an otherwise closed non-contingency airport, a sick transport was carried out late one evening with sick corona patients. The airport was temporarily opened. But we don't know if you could do it again. We were lucky then, but we may not have it next time. Now we enter the holiday period, and many Swedes are calculated because of the pandemic holiday in Sweden – in the Swedish sparsely populated area, in the Swedish mountains or perhaps on Gotland. These are regions where there is little or very little opportunity to receive a large group of corona-infected patients from other parts of the country. Then there must be an opportunity for an ambulance flight. There must be the possibility of rapidly opening an airport in order to fly out patients if necessary. Then the airports need to remain. Not everyone's left. For example, Ängelholm Airport is now being shut down due to a lack of economy. Again, how will the Minister and the Government ensure that we have airports that operate during the crisis and also after the crisis?
i-1cf390828b173add-14	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your reply. It is almost that one is ashamed to put an interpellation in these times, when we have the focus on corona, but this interpellation has come about because of corona, to a large extent. I will repeat some of the questions asked by Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, but the first question in my interpellation is: Does the government consider that airports around Sweden are an important infrastructure prerequisite for good emergency preparedness, and does the government therefore intend to increase the number of emergency airports? I note that I did not receive an answer to this. I can add to the question by saying that the directive was given in December 2019. Now we are in a new world after Corona, and directives from December 2019 may not be fully up to date. That is why my supplementary question is: have you updated the directives following the Corona outbreak? It's a whole new air world we're seeing anyway. The second question in my interpellation is: what is the government's strategy for the future of domestic aviation? If we are to have a domestic flight, it is very high time that the government took further action, because otherwise there is no domestic flight to restart after the pandemic. We all know that climate change is tough on. There is a great risk of continued fires. Yesterday we were told that there is a huge fire hazard throughout the country. We all remember the forest fires 2014 and 2018. The risk of large-scale forest fires during this year is obvious while we do not actually have airports running. They're very shut down. It's barely competent air traffic services are keeping going right now. I would ask for clarification. What is the future strategy for domestic aviation, as the Minister says? Has there been any additional directive regarding the investigation that is now being presented?
i-1cf390828b173add-19	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that we now follow developments for regional airports but also for aviation as such. Sweden needs flights – both domestic and international flights. We are a small, export-dependent industrial country. We are heavily dependent on well-functioning flights. Then we have made it clear, both before the Corona and after the Corona, that the flight will change. We must have a sustainable flight, whether it is a question of biofuel incorporation or, in the long term, electrified aircraft. That work continues. But it is clear that in a crisis like this, when all flights are basically down, not only in Sweden but throughout the world, a completely different agenda is put in place for the aviation industry, for airlines and for aviation operators. We in the government have had to act with credit guarantees to ensure that airlines can cope with the crisis they face and with the procurement of flights to ensure socially important transport. Even if we are to reduce mobility and have had it as a starting point for not increasing the spread of infection, we had to go in when the market was unable to do so. It is about flights from Gotland to the mainland or for that matter about flights in Kiruna and along the coast of Norrland and not least in Östersund to ensure certain types of transport of people working in health care or in other socially important activities. But it's also about being able to carry some materials. MSB has since been given a mandate to be able to do this type of complement. As it becomes a little easier, we also see that some commercial flights resume transport – SAS, Air Leap and Amapola have announced this. It is important to remember that in the places where it happens, the purchased flight may withdraw. It is good for regional airports and for state airports, which are thus getting started with activities. I think you should be careful with the alarmist tones that I hear not least Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström report. We'll be thorough. We must not give the Swedish people the idea that it would be completely devastated and that there are no conditions for ambulance flights and fire planes to land. We have airports that can open at short notice. We have emergency airports that, with government funding, are in a position to carry out that mission. Of course, we can handle both ambulance and fire flights in addition to the commercial aircraft that may take off in the future. Here, too, we have provided resources from the state side. I will also answer the question asked by Lars Thomsson, because I think it is important. The first answer is: Yes, flight is important. Emergency airports are important, and regional airports are important. That was one of the reasons why I, as a minister, chose relatively quickly, in addition to appointing the Arlanda Council, to give a mission to review the very regional airports. Much has happened since the division between Swedavia's and the state's responsibilities and the responsibilities of municipalities and regions. Now came the pandemic, which perhaps gives some extra light on how important it is to have an airport structure and that we ensure that we have good funding for it. That is why we have provided resources to municipalities and regions, so that they are actually able to make extra efforts for their regional airports. It is about ensuring that it is possible to use short-term lay-offs or other things to maintain capacity. Then, of course, there is a certain difference in the case of wholly privately owned airports, as Ängelholm is. But I have noticed that there is an interest in this in the surrounding municipalities and regions, because it is clear that there is reason to have a well-functioning airport structure throughout Sweden. That is also the view of the government. You'll be safe with that.
i-1cf390828b173add-29	Madam President, I would like I don't know if this is alarming. I called Swedish regional airports on Friday and checked this with them. 2 of their 34 airports are standby airports, and they receive compensation for being open 24 hours a day – 2 out of 34. Indeed, many of the others can do so too. They have on-call lists and the like. People are free time and sometimes without payment to be on a hot list, or they have other solutions. But they get nothing from the state for this. It is not the government that is making sure that we have that readiness. They have taken responsibility for this in the municipalities themselves. They have taken it themselves at these airports. In fact, I think that the government must go in here – that is 2 out of 34. The organisation Swedish regional airports has sent a letter to the Government. I assume the minister has got it on his table. It is signed by 34 Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board. Many belong to the Minister's party, the Social Democrats. What do you say to your colleagues, the Minister – to Malin Svanholm in Kramfors, Sara Lundberg in Arvidsjaur or Johan Persson in Kalmar? They have signed this letter. They want this support. What do you say to them? What support do you give them and their colleagues around the country? How does the government respond to their call for additional operating grants and for all regional airports to be designated as emergency airports in this situation? As I said earlier, two of these airports are emergency airports, which can receive around the clock and are planning for it. The others may be able to solve it. But how long will it last? Yeah, we don't know that. As I said, we are facing a very risky situation. We can have a fire summer. We can have corona eruptions. Then we cannot have a situation where the airports in Sveg, Vilhelmina and so on are closed. There are places that must be reached quickly by ambulance flights and by fire planes. This also applies to Kalmar and other places, not only Norrland. There are also places in southern Sweden that it can be complicated to reach by ambulance flights, by ambulance and by fire planes if you do not have access to this. How's the government gonna solve this? It can be noted that the government's preparedness for the pandemic was deplorable. We don't have to discuss that. We already know that. We've seen the results. With regard to the preparedness of regional and emergency airports, the same is true. It's not good today. If we are to have the necessary preparedness in this crisis, we need more emergency airports. We cannot wait for an investigation to be presented on 25 June, because it will do nothing about this in the acute crisis – that is for the future. Now we need to solve this for the summer, and the government needs to deal with it.
i-1cf390828b173add-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the answers given by the Minister. I think that was a pretty good answer. It was not really the answer to the question I asked, but it was still good. The Center Party has a basic view. We have a lot of faith in the future. Domestic aviation will have a huge role to play in the future. It is easy to believe that everything should be replaced by rail. It won't happen. In a lot of places it won't happen. Why is domestic aviation really important? Yes, it is, of course, about emergency flights, fire planes and postal flights. These are police helicopters, air schools, defence aircraft and, above all, the various interventions of the health services. The flight around Sweden will thus be very central. Many public actors – Lantmäteriet, Migrationsverket, Correctional Services, MSB, the Swedish Maritime Administration and all regions – actually use aviation much more than you might think. It's not a narrow question we're talking about. I am pleased that the Minister says: Yes, we will have flights in Sweden in the future, all over Sweden. That's exactly what we need. The Minister points out that extra millions have been shot up. What I see the government has done so far is that support has been given to action by the airlines. However, there is nothing to the infrastructure. You can compare with what has been done in Norway. Much more money is being invested in infrastructure, i.e. airports and air traffic management systems. In this comparison, Sweden's efforts fade a little. The fact that we have then jointly invested EUR 20 billion in the local government sector is very good, but unfortunately I am absolutely convinced that it will be difficult to prioritise money for airports, because the holes in the core business of the local government sector are large. There was also a study from SKR about a week ago indicating that the decline for the 34 regional airports was around 275 million in 2020 due to the coronan. This means that there will be an extremely strained situation for regional airports this year, and I consider the risk of a great many more closed airports to be quite large, i.e. not just Ängelholm and Västerås. What concerns the Minister's response is that he says we should have flights, but that we should wait for reports. But the Arlanda Council's report and the airport review have not yet arrived. It feels as if there is possibly an internal division in the government that makes the reports that point out the direction of Swedish domestic flights actually shine with their absence.
i-1cf390828b173add-44	Madam President, I would like Thanks both to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and Lars Thomsson! I used the concept agitating because Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's post gave the impression that airports throughout Sweden have just closed down. It's not like that. It is an airport that has announced closure – Västerås – and it was also done before the pandemic. It is clear that, like all other aviation-related activities, economic challenges are being faced. It is natural whether it is Swedavia, regional airports, the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration or, for that matter, the ground handling companies working in aviation. Of course, when there are no flights, the very basis for the funding is affected, and this is one of the reasons why we have worked with credit guarantees, procure socially important flights and provide resources to municipalities and regions. As far as emergency airports are concerned, however, I believe that it is important for those who listen to us to see a difference. For many years we have had ten emergency airports in Sweden which, to cover the entire country, have the opportunity to open at short notice to, for example, serve with ambulance and fire planes. In addition, capacity is also available throughout the rest of the airport network. What we are now looking at is whether we need to expand that business. However, there is still good capacity for both fire and ambulance flights. What was important in a situation when all commercial flights were down was to ensure that we were able to manage these connections. Therefore, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to procure important flights to Norrland and Gotland. I say, and have said on several occasions, that I do not rule out that this is an instrument that we can use in other contexts too, just as I do not rule out that we may have to make more efforts to ensure a well-functioning airport structure. It is important for Sweden, both on the basis of the experience of the fires two years ago, when we saw how important it was to a working fire flight, and in the long run to ensure that we are a country that has good air connections. However, it should be with a re-routing flight, a flight that is sustainable and which, not least, if it is electrified, may have a completely different structure from that we have seen now. The government's starting point is therefore to ensure that the flight will exist and have strong conditions to be able to restart. We are, of course, following developments with the capacity of aircraft and airports. We are also constantly prepared to come back and engage in dialogue with both professional organisations and municipalities and regions on how to design aid, and there is already proper support for regional airports. As I said at the outset, we have a fundamental challenge in the airport structure that was decided almost 15 years ago, with the division between state responsibility and municipal, regional and, to some extent, private responsibility. I have wanted a proper analysis of the regional airport structure, because it will be tough for a small municipality with few resources and, not least in this situation, a need to make efforts for elderly care or other things to collect also an airport. Then we will have to assess what the national interest is, what airport structure we should have and how much redundancy we need. This is the basis that the Swedish Transport Administration is working on and that I expect to get a good report on in June. From this point of view, we can look at how the experience of both the fire aircraft and the coronapandemine can lead to the right conclusions and see what structure we will have in the future. This also applies to the distribution of cost responsibility we will have in the future between the state, municipalities and regions.
i-1cf390828b173add-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I really believe that there is a broad majority here in Parliament to enable airports to survive both this and future crises. Obviously, other parts of the government have other ambitions, but I do believe that in this case the Social Democrats may take that battle for the rest of us or turn elsewhere, because we must try to keep these airports. It is partly about the pandemic and the crisis it brings, partly about the future, jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden. Whether it be old technology for a number of years or new technology, we must keep airports. Take hold of this now! We have to figure it out!
i-1cf390828b173add-56	Madam President, I would like Of course I'm a little happy when the Minister says we're going to have a flight to restart in Sweden. However, I think that even more action is needed if it is to work. I get a little worried when the minister says yes, but, we give proper support. Yes, support of 103 million. But only the decline of regional airports is estimated at 273 million, so in my opinion the aid is not huge. I am also pleased that the Minister is opening up to really review the division that came about quite a long time ago between state and non-state airports, because it creates a lot of the problems that we are discussing today. For example, Norway with its Avinor does not have this division. Finally, I would like to say that I see a very positive future for Swedish domestic flights with biojets and electric flights in the reasonably near future. The roadmap for 2030 is clear; then we shall have a climate-neutral domestic flight. I believe that this will be achieved. It is clear that the coronan can put a little bit of pressure on that development, but I think it will succeed in doing so. However, it wants to see the industry start again now and give it the opportunity to start again. If we look at regional flights, there may be electric flights flying between the smaller places where you do not have to cross Stockholm. I therefore see very great opportunities with climate-smart flights ahead and hope that the Minister will continue to work to bring more concrete efforts to the aviation industry.
i-1cf390828b173add-61	Madam President, I would like Thank you to both interpellants for lifting the importance of aviation! It's incredibly important. I'm like Lars Thomsson's tech optimist. I have at some point, and I am sure I will have to eat it up, promised to fly with the first regular electric flight in Sweden when it is in progress. There is a fantastic development going on with Heart Aerospace and the Elise project, where we could actually get fossil-free flights. There is a strong commitment on the part of the industry. They woke up late and had a lot of focus on discussing the airline taxes or not being, but in the end they understood that also customers, the market, require sustainable transport. That is why the aviation industry is now changing, and the starting point for us must be that we have a green restart. Now that we are going to start travelling again, we are not going to press the brown diesel button, but on a button that means changing the transport sector. It is about both aviation and land transport. It is about getting the rail systems going and a transport sector that meets the climate targets. That must be the starting point. I appreciate the discussion because it highlights the importance of having a functioning airport structure. These are issues that we have announced from the government and have therefore investigated. What responsibility does the state have, and what responsibility do municipalities have? Remember that 10 to 15 years ago, this House decided that the state is responsible for a number of airports, and the rest is left to municipalities and regions to take care of themselves. That's how government grants were made. If we make a different assessment in the future, let us discuss it on the basis of the evidence we receive on emergency airports and the airport review that exists. But remember that it is not only the state that has a responsibility, but municipalities and regions also have a responsibility. They have a responsibility for the airports they operate. You're the owner. Ownership also means having financial responsibility. We have helped during the crisis to provide resources to the owners. We have helped during the crisis by offering short-term lay-offs and other support. That's how the government helps.
i-1cf390828b173add-68	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me when I intend to give information on the direction of infrastructure planning and whether I intend to allow Parliament to take a position on infrastructure planning in the form of a proposal in 2020. I have previously, on 25 November and 6 December 2019, answered a written question and an interpellation from Magnus Jacobsson on national infrastructure planning. My answer is the same now as it was then. Work on future national infrastructure planning is currently being prepared within the Government Office. Currently, the decided national traffic cross-border plan for transport infrastructure is being implemented for the period 2018 – 2029 with investments of over SEK 700 billion. It is over SEK 100 billion more than the previous national plan that the bourgeois government decided upon.
i-1cf390828b173add-70	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that I have asked the same question on three occasions. The reason I have raised the question so repeatedly – and unfortunately, given the answer, there is a risk that I may ask the question again in the autumn – is the fact that the national plan is twelve years old. In the twelve-year-old, a revision is made every four years, thus rolling the long-term perspective. We have agreed on this method in politics, and it is a method that allows regions, municipalities and businesses to see the direction of national politics. What are you pointing out? What's important? Let me give you some examples in the current plan that become problematic when they are so nicely prepared in the Government Office or are in the drawer. For example, it is good that you muddy in Gothenburg and Luleå harbours. But it would also be good to know how icebreakers are to be financed and when they come. It is very nice that half the lock in Trollhättan is financed, and it would be nice to hear about the other half. A nice harbour has been built at Norvik. There is a budget of 4 out of 10 billion for a cross-connection. It is clear that it would be good to know about the last 6 billion, which is in the next planning period. Stockholm also needs an eastern connection. Right now, I think it's even out of planes. There's a lot of people talking about electric roads. They weren't even there when the plan was developed. It's new technology. My view is that we agree that we want them. Skåne is in a completely new position where a third file has been discussed on the E6 motorway. There is such pressure on both national and international traffic. We have the same dilemma in Bohuslän, where I come from. It's up at Svinesund Bridge. Either something happens with an improved railway to Norway that can lift more goods, or we stand sooner or later and have to discuss an extension of the E6 because we cannot handle the pressure from the Norwegian trucks. The Öland Bridge is not there, but most of us are beginning to realize that a new Öland Bridge might be needed. The east coast course is so late in the plane that even the end of the east coast course is not part of the plan because it is difficult to know what is happening. Soon we need some kind of information on how to proceed with the high-speed train. Then there is Arlanda's expansion, the fourth course. I think there are many of us in this House who realise that if Arlanda is to become a national hub for aviation, we also need to make these investments. A little as we heard in the previous debate, ladies and gentlemen, there is the question of the long-term financing of local and regional aviation. So there are a large number of issues that we have to deal with. Several of these issues are under way in the current plan, but there is no decision to pursue them. The methodology is thought to be twelve years with recurring upgrades every four years. I'll get back to my question. When will the national plan be able to plan with authorities, regions, municipalities and the business community?
i-1cf390828b173add-82	Madam President, I would like I really appreciate the commitment and curiosity of Magnus Jacobsson. I also share the view that there are an incredible number of exciting projects in the future that also need to be brought into future national plans. There is a development that is exciting when it comes to electrification and electric roads. This was not the case with the previous national plan. We from the government have worked on a freight transport strategy, which actually leads to a number of conclusions on how freight transport systems can be developed in Sweden. Not to mention the increasing importance of shipping. The government has given clear signals because the whole transport sector needs to change. There is a valid climate law. Now the biggest railway effort is taking place in modern times, and it is still only the beginning of the transformation we will see in the transport system, i.e. climate-smarter travel, transport efficiency, biofuels and a far-reaching electrification. The plans and the planning instrument have certainly not always been twelve years old but have previously been ten years old. It is not always the case that governments have put forward a focus plan early. In fact, between 2010 and 2014, the bourgeois government did not make any specialization planning at all. Instead, capacity investigations were carried out and a proposal was submitted to the Riksdag. I can assure Magnus Jacobsson that we are preparing the question in the Government Office. But it is also important to draw conclusions from the rapid technological developments that are taking place at the moment. For those who follow the debate via the media, one should nevertheless be careful to say that it is not the case that there is no information about the future infrastructure. Today's plan extends until 2029. Yes, I understand the commitment and interest, but I also think that most people realise that we will be able to provide long-term information, but at the moment a historically large infrastructure plan of over SEK 700 billion is being implemented. Large investments are now being made in the rail system. There's 164 billion in road maintenance. In addition, we provide additional resources to ensure the quality of the roads in the future. With all due respect for the commitment and interest in planning, I can guarantee that once the work on the Swedish Transport Administration's documentation becomes public, I will also be able to go country and country around, just like Magnus Jacobsson, and listen to comments, wishes and priorities from different regions. I would like to take this opportunity to do so in this context: it is important that we now work regionally on what are the most important priorities in the future and that we find common views across block borders on what the state needs to prioritise. I say this in the light of the history we had with Norrbotniabanan, where there was broad participation in 2004 and 2005. The government decided to invest in Norrbotniabanan. But then there came a bourgeois government in 2006 and knocked away the conditions for Norrbotniabanan. I am very sorry about that. If they hadn't, we might have had a working Norrbotnia track today with rail traffic along the Norrland coast. Now we had to wait until there was another change of government in 2014, when we could step in and thereby give the go-ahead for Norrbotniabanan, which is currently being built. I am seeking broad participation in infrastructure planning, in close cooperation not least with regions and with chambers of commerce, and I hope and believe that we will have broad participation in the future in terms of the importance of investing in infrastructure. It should be sustainable and climate smart and exist throughout the country.
i-1cf390828b173add-91	Madam President, I would like That is quite correct, what is described here – the plan runs until 2029. That is also what I said in my speech. The problem is that several of the projects I mentioned are part of the plan but are so late in the plan that large parts of the funding are actually in the next plan. Then it is difficult for the Finnish Transport Administration and different regions to start the projects, when you do not really know when the rest of the funding will come. I have listened to both regional politicians and regional officials as well as representatives of industry and various lobbying organisations. Nowadays, one must say that you meet lobby organisations and listen to what they see in the future. I get a very clear signal that you feel the most frustrating feeling that this plan is not being rolled forward. I believe that we have all had a number of debates in this House, both last year and this year, where we have pointed out the climate-smart. I come from West Sweden, where we have had a great collaboration in the Västra Götaland region. I was previously a member of the Regional Development Board. We have collaborated with the business community and developed various techniques for electrification. We have buses that run on electricity and even have stops inside libraries and such things. So there are many of us who are in favour of the new technologies. But it does not help to be positive if we do not get the planning conditions. Then I have every respect for the debate on money, but I would like to say in all humility that I know that in principle all parties in this House have supported the budget that has been adopted – possibly with the difference that in the Christian Democratic budget for the next three years we are spending 1 billion more than the government. In this context, 1 billion is so little money that we can say that we have the same budget. What is interesting about our billions is that we invest in electrification – of aircraft, of truck traffic and of individual roads. That is what we chose to focus on, because in the broad outlines we have felt that there we should try to be as united as possible on both rail and road investments. But, once again, we need to establish the long-term planning conditions. These are so big questions that it is not quite good enough that it is only prepared in the Government Office. It needs to come to Parliament so that we can process it further. And I share the hope that these may be issues where we have a great deal of unity, especially over time. I am well aware that problems may arise when there is no agreement over time on large investment projects. You can have comments on that; I can do that, and others can. But I think it is important that this kind of debate should come to this House in the form of a bill so that we can see what the government's planning and priorities are. Unfortunately, it is my experience that behind the beautiful words about climate smart there is some contempt for car traffic and aviation. I do not really experience it from the Social Democracy. My picture of the social democracy after working with social democrats municipally and regionally and also what I see in this House is that it has a great understanding that infrastructure is a system that is connected. However, there is another party in the government. They are not here today and therefore find it difficult to defend themselves. But my experience is that that part of the government is blocking important investments in aviation and road traffic, and that is not good enough.
i-1cf390828b173add-99	Madam President, I would like To be honest, one can say that the greatest concern in terms of predictability and difficulties for municipalities and regions to know is the turnaround made by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. In a government position prior to the 2014 elections, Sweden is announced. It provides clear information on the construction of main roads and high-speed trains and invites municipalities and county councils to negotiate on this. These are signals that are believed in Jönköping, Tranås, Linköping, Norrköping, Hässleholm, Gothenburg, Borås and other parts of the country. Therefore, municipalities and county councils, the local business community and chambers of commerce are starting to work together with the state negotiators HG Wessberg and Catharina Håkansson Boman to develop plans with residential construction and detailed plans. What then happens is that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats change their minds. They agree with the Swedish Democrats' line that they do not need to invest in what they have now worked with and pull away the foundation for what should be long-term planning conditions. So with all due respect for the discussion of a national plan: the political statements made by the parties have also affected the uncertainty that existed. We've been clear. We are pursuing the project that the Alliance began. We think it is important that new main roads are built, not least because before Corona we could see how we hit the capacity ceiling for the Swedish rail system. There was a lot on the trail. It was full on the tracks, and it is not enough to go back to Trafikverket's old investigations about putting a small extra track along the Södra Stammerbanan or Västra Stammerbanan. Then we'll just move the bottlenecks. There is a need for a whole new capacity that separates slow trains from what can be faster trains, which improve passenger transport and which can compete even with flights on a few routes. There is also a responsibility not to change views but to create good long-term conditions for municipalities. The government will do this when we eventually land in the national planning directives. Then, just like last time, I will also go around and meet regional representatives, municipal representatives, chambers of commerce and many others – and very much, it should be stressed, put me with Magnus Jacobsson and find good common views. I think we have that, because the starting point, whether we talk about energy, defence, pensions or infrastructure, must be that it is good for Sweden if we find broad agreements on what are long-term decisions. It is clear that everyone realises that a challenge in the future will be to assess the impact of new technologies, not least after recent changes in behaviour, but also to be clear about how climate change can be quickly managed by imposing tough demands on infrastructure design but also on road, rail, air and, not least, maritime transport operators. The signals from me and from the government are clear: for us it is climate change that applies. We want to take advantage of the strong commitment and work carried out not least by the industries in Fossil-free Sweden where aviation operators say that they want to change, where road transport is changed and rail transport is expanding and where shipping is now taking new steps to become sustainable. It is the opportunity that exists for Sweden to upgrade the transport system but of course also ensure that it becomes sustainable in the future. There is a chance for Sweden to lead the way. Let's do it, and let's do it together!
i-1cf390828b173add-106	Madam President, I would like I was in the Västra Götaland region's development committee when the Swedish negotiations were going on, and I am well aware of the answer given by the region. It was that it was in favour of additional railway capacity. But you have never really answered yes to the question of high speed. It is interesting that not everyone has really noticed that difference in tone. This was due, among other things, to the fact that when we discussed regionally, we noted that no one has really pointed to the theory itself of what new properties should in any way be skimmed off and funded. We were very clear at the national government of the Christian Democrats that we are in favour of additional railway capacity. But we said no to Sweden's negotiations, and we did so because, although we were initially positive, we have still not been able to produce sufficient evidence to show that social benefits are achieved and that it really works economically. The risk is rather that the positive one points to, the dream of perfection, results in other projects not being implemented. Madam President, I would like I respect Tomas Eneroth and think he is one of Sweden's most skilled politicians. But it is not good enough that this plan does not come to the Chamber. We need to get the plan so that we get the planning conditions. Thank you for a good debate.
i-1cf390828b173add-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson, for the warm words! I look forward to continued good cooperation on infrastructure planning in the future. This will be necessary, because there is a bunch – Magnus Jacobsson is probably not there – who doesn't want us to significantly increase our investment in renewable and sustainable transport, but dreams back to about 50 where we didn't have to make demands on the automotive industry or aviation. I think it is important that we are very clear about this across the block. We need to reset. It is even an advantage for Sweden, from the point of view of growth, from the point of view of economic policy and from an industrial point of view. That is why we are providing resources for the development and possibilities of electric aircraft, for electrification of roads and, not least, for the rapid technological development of shipping. This is how Sweden will compete, partly to have good communications out into the world, and partly to show the world that it is possible with Swedish technology. Then it's not just Swedish technology, it's about collaboration with others. As far as electric roads are concerned, we are wise enough to develop cooperation with Germany and France so that the standard becomes European. The same applies, of course, to aviation and other transport areas. We'll take lead in the transition. It can be beneficial when we then see the transport sector taking off. Then we'll be ready with both resources and willingness to transition. This will create both jobs and a better climate. Thank you for a good discussion, Magnus!
