i-3280c120b843fa3a-0	Madam President, I would like This is a debate in a historic age. This is happening at a time of crisis, when care for the elderly is paid attention because we have had to see how many have been infected by covid-19 and more have also died in their retirement home. On 1 February, the government classified covid-19 as a general and socially dangerous disease. Early on, it was clear that with old age there was an increased risk of serious infection with the virus. The government and the authorities have almost daily reiterated the importance of people over the age of 70 restricting their physical contacts and keeping a distance. It has been demanding, but it is still necessary. Especially vulnerable are those living in the country's retirement homes, that is, the oldest and most fragile citizens. They depend on the health care and care of the staff and can rarely choose to keep their own distance. They must rely on others to take responsibility for reducing the spread of infection in their environment and in their homes. This places great and high demands on the activities. Those in charge of care for the elderly have begun to ensure that the staff at work are free of symptoms and that there are the right equipment and working procedures. The employees of Swedish elderly care are doing a fantastic job at a difficult time. The conditions have been different, and activities have come to be affected differently. In Stockholm County, 883 people died in covid-19 on a special accommodation. This can be compared to Region Skåne where the corresponding figure is 54. The Health and Welfare Inspection is currently carrying out a comprehensive review throughout the country to find out as far as possible the reasons for the development. We are still in the midst of the pandemic but must constantly learn both from the activities that have been spread and from those that have managed to avoid it. The Government has continuously taken measures to prevent the spread of infectious diseases in elderly care. The abolition of the withdrawal allowance and the requirement for a medical certificate in the event of sick leave have been particularly important for health care workers in order to have incentives to stay at home in the event of the slightest symptoms. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed and disseminated training courses on how to maintain basic hygiene and correctly use protective equipment. By 20 May, more than 130 000 people had taken part in these training courses. In order to reduce the spread of infection from relatives, the Swedish Public Health Agency called on 10 March to refrain from all visits to nursing homes. Two days later, the government made the same strong recommendation. As a result, many municipalities around the country introduced local restraining orders. On 30 March, the government then decided on a comprehensive national restraining order. On 16 March, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with being a national purchasing centre for the purchase and distribution of protective equipment. I think we all remember the drama when a whole world at the same time shouted for the same products. Export restrictions were imposed and supply chains ceased to function. Today, the situation is different, and the availability of equipment is better. The National Board of Health and Welfare has approximately 1 million visors in stock and a stable influx of a few million masks per month. We don't want to end up in the same shortcoming again. On 12 May, to increase the proportion of permanent staff with the right skills, the government presented an elderly care lift. The initiative that has been developed in dialogue with SKR and Kommunal means permanent full-time positions that are combined with studies. The investment is expected to lead to 10 000 new permanent employees of nurses and carers. Today, the Swedish Public Health Agency will present a material on how to develop testing in retirement homes. More are to be sampled, and the detection of infection is to be increased. I consider it necessary that the testing of nursing homes be extended so that we can stop outbreaks of infection. Finally, we are in the midst of the pandemic and a crisis of historical proportions. It is incredibly important that we draw conclusions from both what works well and what does not work. I look forward to today's debate.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-10	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my humble and sincere thanks to all those who are working in all the different parts of health care. They always do, but the situation we have right now goes in so many different ways beyond that. The famous winged words are never had so few to thank for so much are here and now again most relevant. Madam President, I would like In recent weeks, many things have become clear. First of all, what fantastic heroes we have who work in Swedish health care. Our staff have quickly been able to change into a new and extremely demanding situation. What professionalism and knowledge but also strength and warmth they possess! Secondly, we have failed to protect our elderly people, those who are most fragile and those who are now fully referred to as protecting them when they themselves are no longer able to do so. Thirdly, the government has been slow and has had a lack of communication and a lack of clarity. I would like to express my dismay and sorrow at what is now happening and has happened. So many have lost their lives and, above all, we have not been able to protect our elderly. This is a tragedy. Madam President, I would like On 30 January, I called Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren to the committee to report her and the government's preparedness for a possible spread of infection in Sweden. On this occasion, as well as on several recurring public occasions, the Minister of Social Affairs said that the readiness of the government and Sweden was good. Only on 30 March did the government decide to impose a restraining order on our retirement homes. At that time, 70-plus had been discussed and identified as a risk group for many weeks. Let us establish some important things in principle. At the beginning of the crisis, the issue of protective equipment was a constant source of concern. How many days or hours would the equipment last? The municipalities were forgotten. This is not an individual's fault. The blame should never be placed on any individual or on our amazing staff and never will. This responsibility falls heavily on the government, for it is the government that leads the country, especially in crisis. I would therefore like to address a question in the rear-view mirror to the Minister for Social Affairs. What does the Minister of Social Affairs think should have been done differently?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-20	Madam President, I would like For months now, we have been living in the grip of a pandemic that is seriously threatening people's survival, especially the elderly, but also other vulnerable groups. Spain was hit so hard that people eventually fled retirement homes when it had to step over dead bodies in the corridors. This example of horror should have led at an early stage to strong action by the government. However, the disease quickly became entrenched in nursing homes, and those who would be most protected are those who have been most affected. What wasn't allowed to happen happened. For this, the government shall be held accountable. For us, care for the elderly is a high priority. We choose to act when our population is now affected by the most serious disaster in health and long-term care in modern times. More than 4 000 people have so far died — 4 000 people mourned by their loved ones, 4 000 people whose warm hand cannot be held more. This important debate has therefore been initiated by the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats therefore also call for a Corona Commission to be set up immediately. We have demanded adequate protective equipment for the staff in care for the elderly, but the alarm reports about the lack of protective equipment and the fear of being infected for staff, relatives and the elderly themselves have continued. The Minister of Social Affairs' statement that municipalities have been given the necessary protective equipment is therefore not true. For this, the government shall be held accountable. The Swedish Democrats have also called for increased preparedness in the event of crises. The nation's preparedness has long been substandard. The Minister of Social Affairs' statement that Sweden's preparedness is good is therefore not true either. For this, the government shall be held accountable. Sweden stands out in the number of deaths compared not only with our Nordic neighbours but actually with the whole world. In addition, alarms are now coming that the infection is again increasing in our country. The government has not even yet managed to increase the number of tests. Madam President, I would like The government owes the answer to the Swedish population. Why did the government choose a pandemic strategy that kills so many people?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-27	Madam President, I would like As has clearly been demonstrated in previous speeches, we face a major challenge with corona infection in elderly care. Every death is a tragedy, and every death that occurs but could have been prevented is a major failure. The fact that we now see thousands of such tragedies cuts our hearts. To hear and read about people who have been infected because of lack of routines and insufficient preparedness really pisses me off. It will one day grieve and be angry, but that day is not today, not in the midst of a burning crisis. Now we need to focus, learn from those who have failed and are inspired by those who have succeeded, all to prevent continued infection. It is important to remember that there are municipalities and retirement homes that have managed to avoid infection completely. It is important to understand that the fight against a pandemic is being waged against an invisible enemy and with health professionals in the first line. It is important to respect the fact that this struggle is being waged in the midst of the lives of many thousands of elderly people in their own homes and homes. It is also incredibly important to remember that the struggle is not over; we are facing a summer and probably a autumn that will mean hard work for those who work in health care. They risk working hard for those who live in our retirement homes. Madam President, I would like Some representatives will try to make it appear that the solutions to prevent infection in elderly care are simple. On one occasion, the solutions also happen to consist of precisely the political proposals that these parties have already made in the past. This recycling policy, which seeks to adapt new problems to old solutions, is not worthy of such a serious crisis. Instead, it is important that we start from what we have learned so far during the crisis. It will then become clear that we need a policy that will make health professionals cope with the coming months in the short term. It also becomes clear that we need to find ways to allow the elderly to meet relatives and loved ones without causing new pathogens. The Corona crisis also shows that, in the longer term, we must really take a holistic approach to the health of the elderly. We in the Center Party want to see an older health care programme and an older law that makes it easier to both create good health with preventive measures and coordinate the many different care interventions our elderly sheep. We also want to see initiatives to get more people to join the healthcare profession. Now it is important that we can work together to continue the fight against covid-19, because it is far from over.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-31	Madam President, I would like My thoughts go to the deceased, to the relatives and to the staff, who do an extremely good job in a tough situation in elderly care. More than 90 percent of those who have died in covid-19 in Sweden have been over 70 years so far. 49 per cent of them lived in retirement homes, and 25 per cent had home help. Stockholm's super fucked up. Madam President, I would like Should we have understood that the elderly, who have been on starvation diet for so long, would be a death trap for so many older ones? I think so. Seventy-eight per cent of those living in special housing in 2017 were aged 80 or over. One year after moving to special housing, 41 per cent of men have died. This was before covid-19. Many in retirement homes are dementia and have, for example, Alzheimer's. These are the people we are going to talk about today: the oldest, the multisick – Eva, Britta, Gerhard and Kalle, the builders of the country. They have very little resistance and are easy victims of a dangerous virus in an elderly care that has not been equipped without equipment. A person with contributions from the home service alone meets an average of 15 different people for 14 days. The figures are from 2019. This has been the reality for a long time. The proportion of employees who followed correct hygiene practices was 55 per cent in 2018. It's terrible. This is an employer's question. You can see with what input values we entered into the covid-19 crisis. In the January agreement, there are not many words about older people's policies, but these are issues that the Left has highlighted, with efforts on, for example, staff in retirement homes. It is only now that covid-19 has entered the care of the elderly that it has become a bet. Suddenly, all parties are calling for permanent employment. It feels good for us in the Left Party. In Stockholm municipality, 40 per cent are employed hours. In the rest of the country it is 10 per cent. Seven out of ten nurses in care for the elderly, Madam President, feel that staffing is inadequate every week – this before the covid-19 crisis. Madam President, I would like The staff's room for manoeuvre and the possibility of getting support from colleagues and managers has been significantly reduced. The staff experience their work as much tougher psychologically and physically, according to a measurement made from 2005 to 2015. We are the worst in the class compared to a number of Nordic countries. We also have an elderly care that in some municipalities is based on profit in welfare. This is precisely why it is 40 percent hourly employees in Stockholm, the private health care companies' mecca. We don't face a pandemic like that. This is the background to the death of so many older people by covid-19. It's not a coincidence, but we can do so much better.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-37	Madam President, I would like It is a joy to live year after year. Ageing is a privilege. The alternative is worse. But life should be characterized by quality of life throughout my life, quality of life even when I have become rich in years. That is why, for many years now, we have had a jointly funded care for the elderly. It's supposed to help me when I can't take care of myself. It's about social needs and medical needs. We have expanded care for the elderly ever since long-term care was discontinued. Much has improved. But we've lost our health care efforts. They need to have a bigger place in care for the elderly than they have today. There is a need for more nurses and fixed medical contact with geriatric skills. The nurses are the base of care for the elderly. It will now become a protected professional title. It also needs to follow the right to continuous, good quality training. We Christian Democrats believe that the major shortcomings we now see in the care of the elderly during the pandemic could have been fewer if we had had more health care and a competence-assured base with permanent nurses and nurses who have had enough protective equipment. Half of those over 70 who died as a result of covid-19 lived in a retirement home. It is a large proportion, and it calls for reflection and action. Madam President, I would like Of course, it has to be said that most retirement homes have not received covid-19. In addition, municipalities and care companies have done a great deal of work to cope with the pressures of the pandemic. The shortcomings we see in the care of the elderly today during the pandemic affect how we are going to make it forward. But they didn't just come when the pandemic occurred. They existed a long time before. We are also seeing the effects of that today. In several motions, the Christian Democrats have made suggestions on how to overcome the lack of medical intervention, improve staff working conditions and provide better conditions for municipalities through both targeted and general state grants. We rejoice at the old - age lift that is now taking place. However, we are ready to discuss more proposals and to implement more proposals. We urge each municipality to ensure that employees have the necessary protective equipment. No employee should have to worry about whether there are enough protective equipment at work. No elderly person living in a particular housing or receiving home care should be concerned about the care they receive.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-45	Madam President, I would like Covid-19 has hit everyone's everyday life hard and ruthlessly against the people who are over 70 years old. That is why I am standing here today and not my colleague Barbro Westerholm. Madam President, I would like On 28 January, I asked Minister Hallengren a written question about Sweden's preparedness for a possible pandemic. Four months later, the country's infectious disease doctor reports that the municipalities may initially have been forgotten. If so, it could have been a fatal mistake. I assume that this will be followed up closely, just as all our efforts in this pandemic must be followed up. We must learn from everything we did right, but also from everything we may have done wrong. Madam President, I would like Emergency here and now I want elderly care to learn from the accommodation and home care that has done this well. It is important to ensure that employees receive all the knowledge, all the time, every test, all the protective equipment and all the support they need to take our most fragile by doing so. Madam President, I would like However, we also have fundamental shortcomings in the rights of older people and in the situation of employees in the care of the elderly. There are many examples of great elderly care in Sweden. That's it. But elsewhere the employees have far too few colleagues, too little knowledge, training, wage development, management and time. There the elderly care may have become a hand grenade where an unknown virus pulled out the sprint. You didn't know, and you didn't have time. You tried your very best, but it wasn't enough. It was a lack of conditions. Long-term reports point to high rates of sick leave in care for the elderly, low staffing with a high proportion of hourly workers, lack of adherence to hygiene practices and lack of handling of work clothes. Infectious years in retirement homes have not been moved to another place where they can get the best possible care without others risk being infected as well. Madam President, I would like There is a need for a vision, a total change of perspective on what elderly care should really be and what it means. I am pleased that we Liberals have agreed with the government on increased resources, solid care contact in home care and recently a care lift. But that can only be the beginning. There is a need for stubborn national work for more nurses, more permanent employees and nurses, good leadership and wage development. Each decision-maker has to ask himself the question: What would I need in their situation?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-54	Madam President, I would like As I said in my opening speech, we are still in the midst of the pandemic. We must not be led to believe that the crisis is over, at least for the elderly. We will continuously learn from what has happened to reduce the risk of increased spread of infection in more parts of elderly care. On 16 April, the Government gave a special mission to the Inspection for Health and Care in connection with Covid-19. The Agency is now carrying out an in-depth monitoring of the care and treatment provided in all retirement homes in the country. The supervision includes examining whether the elderly receive care and treatment based on individual needs and whether there are conditions for providing medical care and treatment to those who are not deemed to be in need of hospital care. I do not have complete data from all the regions of the country, but at least 12,000 people have been hospitalized for covid-19. Over 5,000 of them have been over 70 years. About 1,800, one in seven hospitalized patients, has been over 85 years of age. It is therefore not the case that older people have not been cared for in hospitals for covid-19. But would it be that you have not received the care you need, of course, it should be examined. The mission to IVO has been handed over to Covid-19. But the conclusions will also be important in the work to generally strengthen Swedish elderly care. More and more people are getting older. At the same time, those in need of care for the elderly increasingly need more care. This places new demands on the business and the employees. Technological developments have great potential but are still not sufficiently used. The Government has begun its work to strengthen Swedish elderly care in the long term. These include the Government's Welfare Commission and the major inquiry into welfare technology that the Government has just received. It is about following up on the new demands for work clothes. But it is also about Barbro Westerholm's important investigation into permanent care contact in home care. It is about Göran's Johnsson's coordination mission in terms of competence provision based on leadership, working environment and working conditions. It's about regulating the profession of assistant nurse. It is a crucial component for getting care for the elderly that has the necessary skills. It is also, of course, about the old-age care lift that I mentioned in my introduction and which several have repeated. If we are to change the quality of Swedish elderly care, it is necessary to start with the staff conditions. It must have the right conditions to work. This applies, of course, to materials and procedures. But this also applies to basic health education. Given today's contribution to the debate, it sounds like there is a great deal of interest both for these proposals and for many others in the future.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-64	Madam President, I would like The ones we've lost, we can't get back. But the mistakes that have been made will not be made again. Among other things, we Moderates want to see a Corona Commission on the ground as soon as possible. Among other things, Norway is facing it, and we want to see a similar model in Sweden. We need to begin without delay to evaluate and review how, what and why things have happened. Today we are also told that the Swedish Democrats want a Corona Commission. This means, together with the other parties that said they support a Commission, that we have a majority. So far, the government has resisted. I, too, was surprised that it was already on 13 January that I asked us to call the Minister to the committee. Does the government continue to resist? The memory is short. We need this without delay.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-68	Madam President, I would like I had understood today's debate that we would be discussing measures to prevent the effects that we now see in Swedish care for the elderly. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall will perhaps devote her further contributions to this and perhaps also her next line. I would like to remind you that we are still in a pandemic. We have authorities that are extremely heavily burdened by a very intensive work. It was already started at the end of January, and it has continued unabated or, more accurately, at increased speed since then. We have had to postpone reporting requirements to all municipalities and regions in many different ways because the activities are currently limited to managing the pandemic. I think it would be wise to reflect on the type of groundwork and digging in activities that we are currently going to engage in. There is no doubt that this situation, the pandemic, will be assessed lengthwise and abruptly. But I also think it is wise that we know what to evaluate and that we have statistics that can be comparable to both other countries and, of course, within Sweden.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-72	Madam President, I would like I think that's a no. The reason we need a Corona Commission is one of the reasons why we are standing here right now, because there are many reasons. We urgently need to start work to look at what has been done wrong so that it will not happen again. I have mentioned in the past that it is the government's responsibility to lead a country in crisis, and that is where we are now. I ask the question that I put in my first speech in the light of what we are talking about: how does the Minister for Social Affairs view the responsibility of the government, and what would change in how it has acted so far?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-74	Madam President, I would like In this very Chamber and in the Swedish Parliament you may not have to spend much time arguing that 290 municipalities are responsible for Swedish elderly care. I would like to emphasise that responsibility for what has happened is definitely shared, but we have different roles. I believe, as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall himself said, that one cannot just point out an individual or an individual manager. That is absolutely not my ambition. But I would like to emphasise that it is a very comprehensive work to evaluate what has happened in Swedish care for the elderly.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-76	Madam President and the Minister for Social Affairs. We have stood in these seats and had a number of shifts during the pandemic, and I would like to continue to ask about the spread that has taken place in retirement homes.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-78	Madam President, I would like It is as Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt says: We have on a number of occasions during the pandemic had the opportunity to have this kind of discussion despite the fact that we have had a very small parliament. I've appreciated it, because I think it's important to discuss in the moment when we all remember the seriousness. We had a situation when it came to protective equipment that was very strained. This does not mean that there was no ambition whatsoever to make sure that you had the right equipment at the right time. However, as Mr Utterstedt knows, it is not the government's responsibility to talk about what equipment is required at what time. It is the Swedish Public Health Agency, which has knowledge about the virus and the spread of the virus, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which is the authority that gives guidelines. I believe that we will come back in the evaluation of the crisis to the very question of who is responsible for what. We have 290 municipalities and 21 regions. Who is responsible for what, and how do we facilitate clarity in this? The task of the National Board of Health and Welfare to be a national purchasing centre was designed precisely to avoid a situation where there was a shortage.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-82	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that accountability is needed. It will show a lot of flaws; I am absolutely convinced of that. Another question I have concerns the number of training places that have been added by the government. It is not really about the need that exists, but it is based on what you are doing right now. What is the Minister of Social Affairs' assessment of how many places would actually be needed?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-84	Madam President, I would like Now I may have misunderstood the question, because I do not really know which training places Mr Utterstedt refers to. But if we are talking about the Elderly Care Lift, which enables 10,000 training places and provides an opportunity to work in the business while training as a nurse or assistant, it is simply an assessment of what SKR and Kommunal think they can do right now. I see it as the beginning of much more.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-86	Madam President, I would like During today's debate, a number of important shortcomings and failures in the management of elderly care have been highlighted. What we have heard about over and over the past few weeks in particular is the testing of staff. The infective route must not be via staff. That is why I wonder how the Minister views the issue of the testing of personnel. How is this going to get started?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-89	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to say thank you to Sofia Nilsson. She is part of the Center Party, which has been involved in making so many proposals during this very strenuous time. I assume that these proposals will continue to be put forward. When it comes to testing, it is just as I said in my speech: Today, the Public Health Agency will present extended guidelines on how to test in retirement homes. It has been long awaited, and I know there are good examples. It is about retirement homes and municipalities where they have had guidelines and a better strategy for testing. I can see that this will be better disseminated.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-91	Madam President, I would like This is what has come back to the debate time and again: something is going on and something is coming. But any death that could be avoided and prevented is indeed a major failure. The fact that staff carry in is, in my opinion, a major failure. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise this, I would like to have an explanation and I would like to know how the Minister sees what steps need to be taken to get the testing going. It cannot just continue to be a paper product and something that we say.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-94	Madam President, I would like The fact that people with symptoms are not supposed to work has been a very sharp recommendation and clear from the very beginning. There are therefore also measures to make it easy to stay at home. When it comes to testing, it is again the case that health care personnel and patients in health care and group housing are the ones to be tested in the first place. Today, the Swedish Public Health Agency provides guidelines for municipalities and retirement homes for how to test.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-96	Madam President, I would like Will the government invest in strengthening the care of the elderly with staff and training efforts, which is a prerequisite for a dignified care of the elderly even after covid-19? It is about upgrading those who work in the care of the elderly and giving them good wages, good schedules, good working conditions and good skills development. It provides a safe care for the elderly. Will the government continue to invest in permanent posts, in more staff and in more education in the long term? Madam President, is there anything in the intentions of the government after covid-19?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-99	Madam President, I would like This is a work that has already begun. It is not the case that no action was taken before the pandemic, but it is quite clear that we need to do so much more. I believe that the older care lift that has been developed and that Sweden's Municipalities and Regions are now going to make sure to put in the lake, where 10 000 more people not only have an opportunity to get a job but also an education, is associated with this. It is about getting a permanent job with secure conditions and having the opportunity to do their job with the right education at the bottom. Being a nurse or assistant and working with the most fragile are not easy work, but skills are required for this. Resources have been allocated both now and during the last parliamentary term, in good cooperation with the Left Party, among others. But these are resources that must continue to increase. Now, municipalities and regions have received an increase of almost 29 billion so far, and I do not think that the last word has yet been said.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-102	Madam President, I would like Will the government learn from the fact that private actors in the care of the elderly can largely be linked to savings on wages, staffing and the working environment? The municipal employees earn more, have more co-workers and so on. In Stockholm, which is the mecca of privatisation, three times as many have died in retirement homes compared with last year. It shows that something has gone wrong at least here. Madam President, I would like What will the government do to reduce profit maximization for welfare companies?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-105	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, an interesting debate to follow in Stockholm as well. The municipality is head of elderly care in Stockholm as well as responsible for elderly care in Kalmar, Luleå and in all other places in Sweden. The government will of course contribute. We shall continue with what is structural, namely to ensure the protection of nurses, to give them a protected professional title and to review what conditions may exist for them to be better educated and to have the right conditions. Resource supplements will be important, although resources will be scarce.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-107	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats said early on to the government that the government must create tools so that it can take responsibility nationally unless 21 regions and 290 municipalities are sufficient. The Government also decided that the National Board of Health and Welfare should be a purchasing centre and able to coordinate. It started well for health care in a regional direction, but the elderly care came a couple of weeks after. When the news came that the National Board of Health and Welfare would also be responsible for elderly care, it was almost four weeks before it was started. What went wrong, and whose responsibility is it?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-109	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Ankarberg for a very interesting contribution and for very constructive cooperation during this pandemic. I would also like to say with all due respect that there are many things that need to be evaluated. How many weeks did it go between one and the other? I hope there is some understanding that I cannot just stand and answer it in one minute. However, I would like to emphasise that we are aware of the difficulty of having 290 municipalities. We think there are many advantages to having municipal self-government, but the difficulty is that municipalities are not in the same way as the regions are accustomed to providing situational images, to tune their stocks and to know what protective equipment you need. It is simply a huge difficulty to get the municipalities to properly understand the question, understand the mission and know what they needed. Again – I will say this many times – I hope we can agree that when you look in the rear-view mirror it is one thing. For municipalities, however, it was very difficult to see what their needs really looked like, and if you can't express the needs, it will be very difficult for the National Board of Health and Welfare as a national authority to make its own assessment of the needs.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-112	Madam President, I would like I think there's a lot to it that you didn't know what it was like. However, the Health and Safety Act says that employers are responsible for their employees and that they have adequate protection. Then, when such a large part of the care is carried out by the municipalities, when the public has a responsibility, the government must be there and take ultimate responsibility. It took, I mean, probably a lot of weeks too much before we were there, and we have had to harvest that today.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-113	Madam President, I would like This is exactly the case: the employer has the ultimate responsibility for the employees being able to do the job they need. When it comes to the transition to the fact that municipalities too have the responsibility and what happens when they fail to do so, I do not really want to agree that it is then automatically the responsibility of the government. On the other hand, we need to work together and coordinate during this crisis. The lack of protective equipment we had was monumental. It was an enormous amount of hard work that was done. It was not about denying municipalities, it was about municipalities not really seeing what the needs looked like.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-115	Madam President, I would like Many wise questions have already been asked, but I still want to look a little forward. Whether we want it or not, there will be more infections. When it comes to war and war danger, I imagine that there is a ready-made readiness. There's even the law of availability ready to get started. Can the Government and the Government consider creating corresponding preparedness and perhaps even legislative readiness for future pandemics?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-116	Madam President, I would like Not only will there be more infections, we have an infection in society that has definitely not left us but that we must continue to have a full focus on. I would really advise against all of us going into some kind of feeling that we are going to evaluate, that we are past this and now to think about future crises. I am not saying that this is what Lina Nordquist meant, but I think we have such a general feeling in society. It's nice that you don't feel the same fear and worry, but I really want to warn that there's a feeling that we're going to move forward in a different phase than fighting this virus. Of course we need to evaluate and learn. That's it. I don't think anyone, even if one had had to guess for a long time, could have predicted that it could be like this with a pandemic: the whole world is shutting down, you're on protective equipment, 30% of the staff are on sick leave and so on. Of course, we need to learn from this. We need to get ready. The preparedness of the health care sector, which will be discussed in the future by the Social Affairs Committee in particular, is under way.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-119	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. No, as the Government suggested, I do not mean that we should now leave this and start thinking about a future unknown infection. We're in the middle of the war fog, so to speak. At the same time, however, I believe that it is our responsibility as decision-makers to be able to hold several balls in the air at the same time. We must be able to work, shovel coal, do the best possible analyses and make decisions here and now. At the same time, however, we must also take advantage of this and think: if we had had better preparedness, such as the pharmaceutical stocks that the Liberals want or other forms of preparedness, would it have been a different situation today?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-120	Madam President, I would like I promise you, we have a lot of balls in the air. All those balls may not be visible outwards, but I promise we will. Of course, if we had protective equipment in storage for 12 months, it would have lasted 12 months. Now those stocks did not exist, even though it was a joint responsibility. I can say jointly... it wasn't the government's responsibility. Together we have decided that we should have a crisis preparedness where the person responsible in peacetime is also responsible in a crisis, as municipalities and regions.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-122	Madam President, I would like As I said in my line shift with the Minister of Social Affairs, we can't get back the ones we've lost. However, we will do everything we can not to repeat mistakes. I am concerned that in his response to a Corona Commission, the Minister for Social Affairs does not understand that an extremely important part of the work of such a Commission will, of course, be to look at what has happened in the care of the elderly. We Moderates now want to strengthen care for the elderly in several ways. We have pushed the government in several rounds to strengthen up with more money and more resources to our regions and municipalities. Both Prime Minister Löfven and Minister for Social Affairs have, among other things this week, certified that all costs relating to covid-19 should be covered by the state. This means that no municipality needs to be concerned that the money will run out when you buy in protective equipment. It is reported that there is now no critical availability of protective equipment in stock status. Madam President, I would like We also propose, among other things, the introduction of special covid-19 teams where there are reasons, special units that only care for covid-19 patients and that handle them separately in order to maximum reduce the risk of infection. We also propose a follow-up to the use of protective equipment. Coming back, the question of testing. To test is to know. We need to know, both in terms of patients and in terms of staff. The government's failure to provide information about tests in recent days has not made matters any clearer. About 3,400 people over the age of 70 have died in covid-19 in Sweden, about half in retirement homes and 25 per cent in homes. It is not the staff's fault but indicates that we have structural problems.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-128	Madam President, I would like When we entered this pandemic, I thought we had regional pandemic stocks – in Stockholm, in Västra Götaland, in Skåne and in all other regions. It is written down very clearly that you should have it. It wasn't a free game. Now it turns out, as I said, we didn't. It has affected the care of the elderly in particular. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are still in government in those regions. Do the Moderates have an answer to that?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-130	Madam President, I would like I and Karin Rågsjö have a common concern about how nursing homes have been affected by the infection. But I am a little surprised that Karin Rågsjö is asking me that question. In such a difficult situation and against the background and knowledge we have, it is ultimately the Minister for Social Affairs that needs to be addressed.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-131	Madam President, I would like The absence of protective equipment and pandemic stocks in the large regions is extremely irresponsible. Madam President, I would like I'm going to another question. The left wants to upgrade those who work in elderly care with good wages, good schedules, good working conditions and so on. Now the Moderates are also beginning to talk about it. Are the Moderates now willing to fight for a welfare to trust, at the expense of, for example, tax cuts, RUT subsidies and some other things?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-133	Madam President, I would like We Moderates have always cared about welfare. We have always cared for an elderly care with high quality. Unlike Karin Rågsjö, we see how important it is that there is freedom of choice and diversity in care and that it enhances quality. We want to continue to protect it. However, we can promise Karin Rågsjö as well as others that we will continue to focus on and present more proposals to strengthen elderly care and care.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-135	Madam President, I would like The government's management of the pandemic and its spread can almost be likened to an eating testup. The fact that for years and at all levels it has been chosen to systematically save on welfare and to reduce the priority of both those working in the care of the elderly and those who use it becomes painfully clear in this crisis. These are wrong priorities that so far have cost over 4 000 Swedes their lives. The Swedish Democrats have long paid attention to the problem and pushed issues such as introducing language requirements for staff, making the profession more attractive and increasing competence. Working in the care of the elderly should never be seen as a simple job through which to lock into a closed labour market. When the noble reform was introduced, important medical skills were lost. Many municipalities have not been able to carry out adequate care and care activities. The elderly care of the future and the present should be safe and caring for our elderly, who must be able to rely on the quality of their business. It is time to reprimand and invest in those who need the care of society and those who provide it. Madam President, I would like Our elders must never again be removed so mercilessly. In the pandemic, municipalities came up with exceptions when all the focus was initially placed on health care due to the large lack of protective equipment. SD requires that the truth about death in retirement homes be investigated, not least in the event of a second wave spreading or in the face of other crises.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-141	Madam President, I would like In Sölvesborg, Sweden's democrats' shop window, municipal employees were entitled to full-time employment. Now the Swedish Democrats have made sure that some retirement homes have instead had to go down to services of 75 per cent. It's all about part of a puzzle to have a sensible care for the elderly. There's something called walk the talk. This means that the policy we conduct here in the Riksdag should reflect itself in the municipalities in which we govern. What do the Swedish Democrats say about this?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-143	Madam President, I would like It is exciting that the honourable Member Karin Rågsjö once again lifts up Sölvesborg in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. I'm grateful she does. Sölvesborg has taken a great deal of responsibility during the pandemic. Early steps have been taken, as would have been done throughout the kingdom, to cope with the pandemic in the best possible way.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-144	Madam President, I would like My question was about why services are reduced to 75%. But we're leaving it. In all contexts, the Swedish democrats have sided with welfare companies, even when it has been shown that private elderly care and profits in elderly care can to a large extent be linked to savings on wages, staffing, working environment and so on – what we can see the consequences of today. It affects the elderly pretty hard. Madam President, I would like Do the Swedish Democrats have an answer to what their view of private care looks like?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-147	Madam President, I would like I am grateful that even the Left Party is now putting gunpowder on and pushing questions about elderly care and other important issues in the Swedish parliament. I can inform you that the Swedish Democrats have always been on the side of welfare and the elderly. Everything else is a lie.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-148	Madam President, I would like This crisis has taught us a lot about how Sweden stands during a pandemic. But it has also pinpointed the vulnerabilities and risks of our elderly care for decades. I'm not here to point fingers. But I will point out a few lessons and insights that we need to take with us, both in the continuing fight against covid-19 and after the end of the crisis. At the beginning of the week we were able to read in the newspapers that the total number of deaths in elderly care during this spring with corona is not much greater than the number of deaths during a common flu season. This should lead us to an understanding, not that the coronapendemia has been mild, but that we have accepted disease and mortality in our elderly care for too long and too easily. Another important lesson is that our elderly care needs to be characterized by knowledge. At accommodations where the staff have experience, basic education and routine in following basic hygiene practices and guidelines, it has been more difficult for Corona to get hold. I would like to challenge everyone who is listening today to consider what insights and lessons this crisis has given you and to reflect on how you can use them to promote better care for the elderly in the future. One thing I intend to take with me is how incredibly important the holistic approach to older people's health is. The longer you live a healthy and healthy life, the better you resist illness and ill health. Another thing I intend to take with me is that we definitely need to equip ourselves for the future. We are facing a huge challenge where we need to get many more people to go to work in health and social care. Fortunately, the number of applicants for various health care programmes is record-high for the autumn. We must take this interest into account. The last thing I'm going to take with me is all the good things that are actually done:
i-3280c120b843fa3a-155	a rapid training of staff in disease protection and basic hygiene procedures; The majority of Sweden's elderly care has not shuddered in the face of the Corona crisis, but has stepped up and taken the fight.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-157	Madam President, I would like What are we going to do in the short term? Every employee who meets covid-19 patients in the care of the elderly must have the necessary protection not to pass on the infection or become infected himself. We also need to reduce the number of employees who visit each elderly person in the home service. It's about the staff. We need to create special covid teams responsible for all elderly people with suspected or confirmed infection. We must give the public the right to take control of the activities of private operators. The municipality should be responsible for coordination. We must also have regular covid-19 tests of those working in the care of the elderly. Let the MAS, the medically responsible nurses, become inspectors who have contact with the infectious pathogens. Separate the infected from those who are not infected. Individual assessments must be made for which care is to be given for covid-19: oxygen, medicines and so on. Palliative care means that two doctors should assess the situation. And it will be done on site, along with the sick and the family member. What are we going to do in the long term? We will not be able to afford tax cuts. Safeguard the welfare and remove the profits in the welfare. Until further work is done, it should be normal. Upgrade those who work in the care of the elderly. Make sure they have good wages, good schedules, good working conditions and good skills development. Health and social care training should guarantee the same competence throughout the country. Introduce protected professional title for nurses. Invest in new positions in care for the elderly. There is a need for more healthcare skills in elderly care, Madam President, and more of municipal health care. The multisick must receive adequate care. Let's face the next pandemic with a dignified care for the elderly, built on the fact that we give the staff the opportunity to work.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-168	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Karin Rågsjö for often constructive cooperation in the Committee on Social Affairs. I see many weeks and months behind me when we have jointly asked questions and fought, not least with regard to the discussions on care for the elderly. But first of all, Madam President, does Karin Rågsjö share the view that the government always has the first and last overall responsibility for these issues?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-170	Madam President, I would like Certainly, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, the government has the ultimate responsibility. But, for example, when it comes to pandemic stocks, it is quite remarkable that there were no regional ones in Stockholm, Västra Götaland or Skåne. There should have been, and then we would have had a completely different situation in the retirement homes. It is a regional responsibility to have these pandemic stocks; it is not the government that has it.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-171	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your answer! With regard to our elderly care and the quality of it, we Moderates see it as extremely important that we have competition and diversity – that there is freedom of choice for our old people. In the current situation, I would like to ask Karin Rågsjö how she views the importance of our freedom of choice in this.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-172	Madam President, I would like Freedom of choice is supposed to be for the elderly, isn't it? And what will competition be based on? Now we have seen a dividend in the big companies. What are these gains based on? Well, you've pushed down staffing and so on-- you can see that in hundreds of tables. This also has Municipal specifically lifted. It is clear that I wonder how, for example, in a municipality that Stockholm, with 100 performers, should coordinate in this type of crisis. It's gonna be a little mecky.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-173	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Mr Rågsjö here today, I am neither positively nor negatively surprised. In fact, I'm not surprised at all. Many of the proposals are the same old left-wing proposals, with more of everything for everyone and no private welfare companies. One of the biggest challenges we face is, as Mrs Rågsjö says, to get more people to want to work in the care of the elderly. When, at the same time, you want to make it more difficult for, or preferably ban, private welfare companies and thereby cut off the possibility of choosing an employer, how does Mr Rågsjö see that your policy would improve so that more people want to work?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-175	Madam President, I would like If you get a permanent job, a good salary, skills development and opportunities to grow in your professional role, it will be the best. It would be great if all private actors worked for this, but we can see in a number of places around Sweden that this is not the case. I want an elderly care that protects the elderly, not the public limited companies.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-176	Madam President, I would like I think it is rather unserious of the Left Party to immediately attack the private scorers in this way, especially when the content of what is being said is actually not correct. We can see that both wages and conditions are just as good in private. Many times the quality there has topped the list. During this pandemic they have even gone ahead, with both health checks and restraining orders. Again, how does Mr Rågsjö think that rhetoric should raise the status of the healthcare profession?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-178	Madam President, I would like If you look at a municipality like Stockholm, with a lot of private performers, you can see, for example, that there are three times as many deaths in the retirement homes there compared to last year. You can think about that. In Stockholm, 40 per cent are employed hours. In the rest of the country the figure is 10%. Then it depends on what material you look at. If you look at Almega's material, everything's great. If you look at the Social University's material, it doesn't look the same.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-180	Madam President, I would like The problems can be summarised as follows:
i-3280c120b843fa3a-182	For many people who are on an hourly basis and are forced to go between units at risk of taking infection with them For many who lack knowledge of basic health care hygiene because they do not have nursing skills or have access to good continuing training. Pandemine's not over. It will continue for a long time to come. The Government has promised that the municipalities and regions will be reimbursed for the costs of healthcare and care resulting from covid-19. So we Christian Democrats are asking: What are we really waiting for? Make risk assessments at the workplace, and ensure that the necessary protective equipment is in place for each employee. Although we are not yet able to build up any stocks, we are able to meet the needs, much because many Swedish companies have changed and are now contributing with protective equipment and many other things. Make sure that the testing is really extended. It is crucial that the employee can test for a minor cold or covid-19. It is crucial that any person who has his or her residence in a nursing home or receives home care and has symptoms can test themselves so that the staff can take measures in the form of cohort care, distinguishing between those who are covid and those who are not in order to reduce the risk of infection, and that the staff are given the necessary protective equipment. Employed already now those who are timvikarier and work in the care of the elderly so that they can begin the education that is included in the Elderly Care Lift in the autumn. Each municipality can do this in the near future. Make sure you have the necessary protective equipment. Ensure that testing is started for both staff and residents. And make sure that you recruit staff, because that will improve the quality and we can see better care for the elderly this summer.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-190	Madam President, I would like The municipality of Stockholm is hugely affected. Figures show that the infection reached 75 percent of retirement homes in Stockholm City; it is the epicentre of disaster, you might say. In Stockholm municipality, 40 per cent are employed hours in elderly care. In the rest of the country the figure is 10 per cent. In Stockholm, the Christian Democrats are responsible for elderly care. Madam President, I would like Do the Christian Democrats believe that we have something to learn from Stockholm municipality in terms of permanent services?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-192	Madam President, I would like Each part of the elderly needs more permanent employees. It is not good to have a large proportion of timvikari. They do not receive training, they are not involved in quality development and they do not get the chance to register for sick leave in the same way because they do not have a job at the bottom. They have a rather difficult working situation. We have everything to gain by getting more permanent employees in care for the elderly and in all public services, if we are to have a good quality.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-193	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Acko Ankarberg Johansson! Here we are in complete agreement. Wages, collective agreements, demands for work clothes and premises with shower are always good. It may sound perfectly normal to have this in a workplace in the care of the elderly, but when these rules were introduced in Stockholm, the number of companies actually decreased from 147 to 98. There were some people who didn't want to be around anymore. Then your party friends went out and were very angry about it. What priority list do you want to send in KD to your party colleagues in Stockholm and the rest of the country?
i-3280c120b843fa3a-196	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats give priority to care for the elderly. That's why we said no to the abolition of the defense tax. We did not think it reasonable for those with the highest incomes to have a tax reduction. It was for elderly care and health care that the money should go. If our proposals had been successful, all municipalities and regions would also have had a better situation. They would have had considerably more money and could have done better. This is what it is all about: it must be connected. Our policy must have an impact at national level so that it can be implemented at local and regional level. I look forward to a better government.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-199	Madam President, I would like Of course, testing and protective equipment are extremely important in order to be able to prevent the spread of infection, but at the same time much more is needed, just as much more is needed than just a safety belt for safe traffic. Only one in five people over 70 who died in this pandemic lived at home without support. It says a lot about where we have our risks and where we have to work together to do something to strengthen our country. On average, one home worker meets eight different staff a week, and it is not uncommon that five of these do not have a nursing training. That's not good. Vulnerable people care for other vulnerable people. We need to strengthen the knowledge of those who are year-long people's support and safety nets. We need to increase training and invest in wage development and leadership in care for the elderly. It is also extremely important that we preserve the opportunity for employees to change employers, so that they can continue to thrive at work for many years and that we also preserve older people's right to govern their own daily lives. It is not the state that should live our lives because we have come above a certain age limit. Madam President, I would like SPF Seniors recently published a book entitled Dare I Become Gam Mal? Today it is not obvious that the answer to that question is yes. But it has to be obvious. Care for the elderly, home care and accommodation must become places where knowledgeable and caring staff thrive and want to stay and be rewarded for this, for we must all be able to look forward to getting older.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-204	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to talk care for the elderly in the midst of a pandemic that places great demands on all of us – a heavy and difficult time! Not least, it is heavy and difficult for those who live in a retirement home and long to have a visit. I recently received a letter from Annika Roman, Head of Administration of Örebro Municipality. She was concerned about a one-sided picture of elderly care in covid times. She described how they in the municipality have prepared themselves by securing as much as they can to prevent the spread of infection in their activities and secure support for the elderly. She invited me to highlight also activities conducted outside Stockholm. She asked me to highlight all loyal and competent employees and managers who have put so much energy and effort into preventing the spread of infection. I would like to conclude today's debate by thanking all of you. There are many of you. You're mostly women. Every once in a while you do a fantastic job to ensure that the elderly in Sweden receive good care during the last years of their lives.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-208	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me if I have taken any initiative for an analysis to evaluate whether the closure of fishing has disproportionately affected the coastal fisheries concerned, what initiatives I intend to take to mitigate the effects of the closure of fishing activities on the region concerned, and how, within the framework of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, I will work to ensure that play closure periods do not affect the region in the same way in 2021. The adoption of Council Regulation 2019/ 1838 of 30 October 2019 fixing for 2020 the fishing opportunities for certain fish stocks and groups of fish stocks in the Baltic Sea was preceded by negotiations by the Council of Ministers on 14 and 15 October 2019. At the Council meeting, I seemed, in line with the position I had been supported in Parliament, to promote sustainable quota levels, which were essentially achieved. I also supported the idea that to stop playing for the protection of cod would not disproportionately affect coastal fishing, but there was not enough support for this. The position was based on an analysis of the impact on the Swedish coastal fisheries concerned. A corresponding analysis will be carried out for the discussion and decision on fishing opportunities for 2021. However, an analysis of the impact of this year's spawning ban on the fisheries concerned is too early to do now, given that it is ahead of us in time. I am following the development of Swedish professional fishing, particularly small-scale and coastal fishing. A prerequisite for fishing is the existence of long-term sustainable stocks. The measures introduced for 2020 are due to the poor stock situation of eastern cod. In this context, the coordination and holistic approach of the authorities is also important. We are also engaged in dialogue on whether anything needs to be done to mitigate the negative effects of the adopted regulation on the fishermen, processors and coastal communities concerned. In this context, the proposals and input received have been valuable. Increased competitiveness and profitability in Swedish fishing requires a holistic approach. In addition to setting fishing opportunities at long-term sustainable levels, targeted measures are needed to address many of the environmental challenges that exist, in particular the problem of eutrophication. The Government has therefore invested an additional SEK 240 million annually for marine and environmental work in 2020– 2022. The government is well aware that many fishermen are committed to contributing to a better environment in our seas and has, in particular, enabled the Ha vs and water authority to contribute g in 2020 to facilitate the participation of professional fishing in projects and measures aimed at improving fish stocks a status and habitat. With a view to strengthening the competitiveness of professional fishing, the Government has reinforced, through the Food Strategy, the financing of measures under the Maritime and Fisheries Programme to enable investments to foster business development in professional fisheries. In the longer term, work is under way on a strategy for future fisheries and on the preparation of the forthcoming operational programme for the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund 2021 – 2027. The programme will be one of the main financial tools for managing the future development of the fisheries sector. Council Regulation No 2019/ 1838 of 30 October 2019 fixing for 2020 the fishing opportunities for the Baltic Sea is a one-year Regulation for 2020. Prior to the negotiations in the Council on the corresponding regulation for 2021, the Government will, in addition to the authorities' analyses and to conduct consultations with stakeholders, also consult with the Riksdag. How Sweden, within the framework of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, will work to ensure that future regulation will not affect coastal fisheries in the region in the same way during 2021 will thus be the subject of a reconciliation with the Parliament before the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in October 2020. It is important for the government to be able to live and work in rural areas and coastal communities throughout Sweden.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. From 1 May this year and four months forward, the southern coast of Skåne will be shown up to Öland with a stop for herring fishing. The closure of fishing is strongly criticised for not hitting the spawning area referred to. The by-catch of cod by herring fish can be measured in per mille relative to the large total quantity of fish caught. In addition to the lack of accuracy, it must also be noted that a large number of jobs are affected, both directly for those fishermen who are currently engaged in fishing and in the surrounding processing industry. The herring fishing stop places a dead hand over the archipelago, which is already hard tested in coronatides. It is not just about those fishing boats that cannot fish. Those affected also include the processing companies that handle the catch, as well as restaurants and retailers. It is not easy for processors to survive a missing revenue year. Nor is it easy to revive the business in the future. The traditional herring sandwich usually sold in the ports is missing. In his reply, the Minister for Rural Development says that in this context the proposals and input received have been valuable. In January this year, the municipalities of Karlskrona, Simrishamn and Sölvesborg, in cooperation with the fishing industry, presented a letter proposing to the Minister a series of measures to mitigate the effects of the stop and increase knowledge of the issues. For example, proposals are made for experimental fishing, video camera monitoring and increased controls on the presence of by-catches in the region in order to present a broader knowledge base for the negotiations ahead of 2021, where the minimum by-catches are verified. A direct question to the Minister for Rural Development is whether she has taken on board this proposal that has come in.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for raising a very important question! The situation for our fishermen, as Magnus Oscarsson says in his speech, is very strained, for many different reasons. On the one hand, we have the situation for many of our aid, which means that quotas have been reduced and, on the other hand, we now have a corona situation which means that large groups who normally have their main supply to hotels and restaurants have completely lost their market. The situation is therefore difficult, and it is very important that we ensure constructive dialogue and discussion on the best ways to help this industry, both politically and together with the industry and stakeholders. I have, of course, taken note of the letter on which the question is explicitly concerned. I have also replied to the letter, and we note that we are very serious about all the recordings made in this area. The letter has been further distributed to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, which is the authority in Sweden that has the powers and mandate to act in this area within the framework of what is decided in the common fisheries policy at EU level. In addition, we can see that politics obviously has a responsibility. We have worked very hard throughout last year by trying to have both dialogue and well-established decisions to deal with the diversity and breadth of problems that this is all about. We paid SEK 240 million in the budget for this year to strengthen environmental work; that is perhaps the main reason why stocks look like they do. At least as important to mention in the debate is that we made a change of regulation which meant that professional fishing could now be involved, for example, in the work on environmental prevention. As a result, I can mention, for example, that a few weeks ago a targeted call was made for fishing to be able to be involved in collecting plastic and ghost nets in the sea. This is, of course, important in order to strengthen the environment, but it is also important in order for fishing to have an alternative income in the very difficult time that we are now in. To this we have delivered proposals to deal with another challenge that we believe affects the stock, namely the presence of seals, which is very large. Throughout the last year we worked to ensure and get on site license hunting on seal, and it is now being introduced. We have also noted the changes that the EU has made in the framework of the maritime and fisheries programme. It has now opened up opportunities for a fast track to make programme changes, which means that Sweden could introduce sedentary support. That is a question that we are now preparing as soon as we can. Here it is about finding Swedish co-financing for the proposal and being able to implement it in a good way as quickly as possible. To this it is my view that we need to work with holistic approaches both in the short and in the long term. There will be a need for a strategy for blue industries covering the breadth of blue industries, i.e. professional fishing, the processing industry and coastal communities. I talked about hotels and restaurants and Magnus Oscarsson talked about herring sandwich – yes, it is important for many municipalities that you can build your hospitality industry on what is the basis of why it has arisen. Together, we have an important responsibility to do everything we can to ensure this progress.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-231	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is good and urgent that the Minister should nevertheless mention that this is worrying. It is also good that the Minister deals with seal hunting and so on, but the problem remains: it is the herring stop which is very worrying. I would like to come back to the fact that the coastal fishermen's boats are completely stationary along the Swedish coast since 1 May, without any notice of compensation whatsoever. Jennie Nilsson talks about it a little, but they have not been told about it and do not know what the future looks like. How can future generations of fishermen be motivated to invest in a profession when they see their parents' life's work dismantled piece by piece? First it was the eel, then the salmon, then the cod – and now even the herring, whose stocks are not even threatened. Is it, then, that it is not being fished at all? Yes, because at the same time the stop in fishing elsewhere in the Baltic Sea is ignored. Unfortunately, these fishermen who now have their boats in port see that there are fishing boats from elsewhere – large Polish trawlers fishing herring for herring! This happens daily while the Swedish fishing community dies – fishermen, processing centres, restaurants, tourism industries, in short whole communities. Should the processing industry perhaps buy its raw material from Polish fishermen this summer? That's a very good question, I think. I would like to ask the Minister and really have a reply: what concrete information about the future does the Minister have to give to small-scale, coastal and local herring fishermen who have been banned for more than a month now, despite the fact that they have been using surgical precision to avoid taking up cod? These are a few per milles of by-catch while Polish trawlers vacuum the Baltic Sea on fish. Will Swedish small-scale coastal fishing receive compensation? Will the Minister address Polish fishing activity with his Polish colleagues in the Council of Ministers? Family supporters and taxpayers – people – are waiting for information.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-238	Madam President, I would like I think Magnus Oscarsson and I agree on a lot on this issue. We both share the concerns about the situation and the ambition to deliver the best possible proposals in this area. We also share the view that the design of the herring catch for the period was unfortunate and disproportionate. We are currently waiting for ICES to make its recommendations for next year. Sweden has invested heavily in getting scientifically based recommendations on quotas. This is something that was not obvious to many countries, including countries that Magnus Oscarsson touched on in his speech. For me, it is important to maintain that foundation. Nevertheless, it has been a Swedish success with a greater consensus that decisions must be made based on scientifically-based advice. It is still a better starting point for a small fishing nation like Sweden, and we need to stick to that – and now we are waiting for these recommendations. When we receive the recommendations, as we did for this year, we will analyse what ICES says and what becomes the Commission's proposal. We will pursue questions in accordance with the recommendations and analyses after we have established them in the Swedish Parliament for next year. Having said that, I have also received reports that there are other countries which have fishing vessels in these waters and which fish herring. In such cases, it is a violation of the agreement concluded by the countries within the framework of the Baltic Sea and European cooperation. It's a game shutdown right now. Above all, our authorities and the Commission are looking at this, measuring and analysing what is true and not true in the data that comes in. If we can confirm that it is being fished in these waters, I am prepared not only to raise the issue in the Commission at the next meeting in June, but I am also prepared to make direct contact with the relevant ministerial colleagues in those countries that deliberately allow their fishing fleets to break a stop. That is totally unacceptable, I can say in this context. I still think we need to be able to work with all the tools that exist. Given both the situation of the fishermen and the Corona situation that is particularly straining the industries, we will deliver policies that facilitate everyday life for the companies. I reported earlier on actions directed specifically at fisheries, and that is a bit unique. It is the industry where there is a clear focus to find industry-specific solutions. Otherwise, politics, in broad agreement so far, has chosen to make broad targeted efforts to hit the whole industry. The measures that have been taken with the possibility of short-term lay-off, conversion aid, loan guarantees and so on for the entire Swedish business community are also open and possible for the fishing industry to participate in – to the extent that they meet with them. However, since they do not always meet fully, we are also working specifically on the targeted measures. My ambition is to come back as soon as possible. We speed up the issue of delivering on the last part, i.e. a sedentary support. Unlike many other countries, we have to make a programme change, which is why it takes longer to get to it in Sweden than for those countries that already had systems for this. The advantage is that Sweden still has money in that envelope. Some countries that have already made use of the aid and make continuous use of it have had little money available in that account. It's plus and minus. The question is urgent, and we are working at the highest possible speed.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-246	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I can only say that there is evidence that there are Polish trawlers fishing. I have in my computer pictures of big trawlers vacuuming. Where in the past there were coastal smaller boats from Sweden there are today large trawlers from Poland. I am pleased that the Minister will raise the issue. I take this issue very seriously. The boats have been set up today. Our skilled fishermen in these municipalities have not been fishing. On the other hand, they see that the waters are being vacuumed, and that is serious. We have adopted a food strategy, in which the Minister is involved, and we can be pleased that it exists. However, we must note that a decision on a ban on herring fishing is completely counterproductive to the food strategy. We also know that herring is not threatened; on the contrary, there is plenty of herring. That is why we really need a change in the herring stop. I have a final question for the Minister. What is the government's view on giving the Maritime and Water Authority the task of introducing a more flexible quota system, so that coastal boats do not have to stand still with a ban on trade? It would be important to get clarification from the Minister on how she views this. Thank you for the debate.
i-3280c120b843fa3a-252	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, my closing speech is only two minutes – if I am to give a comprehensive answer to the last question. But I can see that the herring stop is part of ensuring that there are viable fish stocks in the long term. I believe that we all, including the industry, have a common interest in this happening. We did not think it was appropriate for this year to design the ban on herring fishing, but we felt that it was designed in an unfortunate way. It is important that the proposals and measures taken to achieve the overall objective are designed in such a way that they are effective, effective and proportionate. That is a line that we will continue to take. Even in relation to quota systems, I can see that they are not suitable for laymen and politicians to design or like too much. They should, as far as possible, be based on facts and science, and within the framework of international competence we decide the total volumes ourselves. It is HaV that designs exactly how the Swedish quotas are distributed on the different stocks and in what way between the different categories. HaV gives permission for ten years, normally. The last decision was taken for this year. The decision taken in the light of previous decisions meant that the quotas were corrected to the advantage of coastal fishing – if you are to express yourself in this way. It is important that we continue to monitor the issues. We shall have a fishing fleet and a fishing that works for both large-scale industrial and coastal fishing, as well as all the segments that, in turn, depend on fishing functioning. I hope that we can work together to be constructive on this issue.
