i-e8e40301e832376e-4	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the continuation of participation in the NATO training operation in Afghanistan. Sweden has participated in various military operations in Afghanistan since 2002, first through the International Security Force ISAF and then, since 2014, in the NATO Resolute Support Mission (RSM) training and advice operation. The soldiers and officers that Sweden has sent to Afghanistan have all done admirable work, and we, as Swedish citizens, can be proud of our contribution to Afghanistan and its people. Unfortunately, Sweden's military efforts in Afghanistan have also had a high price and not only financially. A number of the officers and soldiers we sent to Afghanistan in the fight for peace and freedom have paid the ultimate price and never returned home to their families and relatives. Madam President, I would like The Government's bill proposes that the Riksdag admits that the Government will make available a Swedish armed force for participation in NATO's RSM training and counselling operation in Afghanistan until 31 December 2021. At the same time, it also states that the peace agreement concluded by the United States in February 2020 with the Taliban movement, the so-called Doha Agreement, means that all foreign military units will be progressively withdrawn before May 2021. We hope that the peace agreement will allow Afghanistan, after decades of painful war, to finally face a more peaceful future. However, we do not believe that Sweden should wait for the withdrawal. The settlement should instead begin. The reason for this is simple. The development of security policy in Sweden's neighbourhood has been extremely negative. Sweden has contributed militarily to a series of efforts around the world, but it is now time for us as a nation to focus on our own security and our own defence. Next week, the Riksdag will decide on the direction of total defence for the years 2021 – 2025. The decision will lead to the restoration of abandoned regiments, the increase of conscripts and the purchase of new equipment. Although we believe that the efforts could have been more comprehensive, we agree with the government on one thing: the armaments of the defence will cost a lot of money and take a lot of time and energy. In order to cope with this reconstruction of a strong defence force, in addition to increased funding for the defence, it will be required that the Swedish Armed Forces re-focus on the defence of Sweden in front of participation in international efforts such as Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. The Swedish Democrats also believe that participation in operations abroad should always be voluntary for employees within the Swedish Armed Forces. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, in view of what has been said, we do not wish to continue Swedish participation in the training operation RSM, as proposed by the government, but instead ask for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation number l.
i-e8e40301e832376e-12	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking all of you who are on or have been on foreign missions on behalf of Sweden. It is a difficult task that we in Parliament are giving you, and for your efforts we in the Left Party would like to express our great appreciation. Madam President, I would like For over 40 years Afghanistan has been in strife, with occupations in place. In 1979 the Soviet Union invaded the country and remained for ten years. After the September 11 attack, the U.S. military arrived and has now had an almost twenty-year presence. Sweden has had a military operation in Afghanistan for 15 years. Yet Afghanistan is the world's deadliest country for civilians. The experience of Afghanistan shows that armed action does not lead to increased security for the population. Most parties now seem to agree on this, because 2020 is, at least from a negotiating perspective, a successful year. In February, the so-called Doha Agreement was concluded between Taliban representatives and the United States. The agreement provides for the withdrawal of all foreign military personnel from Afghanistan before May 2021. In return, the Taliban movement guarantees that Afghanistan will not be used as a base for purposes at risk to the security of the United States or its allies. The agreement also provides for negotiations between the Taliban and Afghan counterparts on a cease-fire and on the political future of the country. The so-called intra-Afghan talks between the Government and the Taliban began in September 2020. The discussions have so far only touched on the modalities of the forthcoming dialogue, but also on these issues progress has not been made. The process is expected to be very lengthy. The main objective of the Afghan people is to end the violence. One demand from civil society is that the talks should be inclusive and that, at least formally, the rights that Afghanistan's women and minorities have fought for in recent years should not be sacrificed in the negotiations. Despite pressure, the delegations of the parties cannot be considered to be inclusive. Only four women are included in the government's negotiating delegation of 20 people. There are only men in the Taliban delegation. In this situation, when the United States is reducing its troops and preparing to leave the country, the message of the government and parliament should be that the failed adventure in Afghanistan is over. In reality, today's decision means that Sweden continues to participate for another year in an international effort that has fundamentally failed. Once again, the decommissioning of Sweden's military presence in Afghanistan will be postponed to the future. The Left Party has six times previously called for the rejection of proposals with the same proposal as today and still does not believe that a Swedish armed force should be made available in NATO's operation. Overall, we have been calling for a refusal of military participation for 15 years. We see the RSM, as the current operation is called, as a continuation of the NATO-led operation ISAF, to which we are strongly critical. The experience of Afghanistan shows that armed action has not led to increased ground security for the population. Children in particular are severely affected, according to Save the Children and the UN. And Afghanistan is today one of the world's most dangerous countries to be children in. Sweden should work towards giving the UN direct responsibility for the further process, both civilian and military. This would facilitate the peace process that is now in place. According to us in the Left Party, the parliament should reject the government's proposal to continue Swedish participation in the NATO operation in Afghanistan. Since the representatives of both the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats in the committee are calling for rejection of the bill, we must, according to the rules, have a common reservation. However, I would like to emphasise that our parties differ fundamentally in their view of Sweden's commitment to Afghanistan. Madam President, I would like According to the WHO, Afghanistan has had some 42 000 confirmed cases of covid-19 and more than 1 500 deaths. However, the WHO estimates that there is a large number of darkness due to a lack of tests, a lack of capacity in the country's health care, that people do not seek medical care and that there is a lack of a national death register. An unusually large over-representation of male infected people is believed to be due to men's greater need for medical care and testing. Afghanistan often lacks opportunities to maintain a social distance. People live crowded, crowds are common and the impression is that many consider the pandemic to be overplayed. The clearest effect of the pandemic in Afghanistan has so far been economic. The World Bank estimates that the proportion of people living below the poverty line in Afghanistan will increase from 55% to 70% of the population. According to the Asian Development Bank, inflation has doubled and the price of groceries has risen even more. The Afghan State's revenue is expected to fall by 17% in the first nine months. The pandemic will have a significant social and economic impact. The pandemic and restrictions have disrupted other necessary interventions such as vaccination against polio. Even now there is a sharp increase in polio, which was almost eradicated just a few years ago. These and other health impacts will increase the cost of care and increase poverty and exclusion. Unemployment and poverty in the wake of the pandemic are also likely to drive the production of opium among Afghanistan's farmers. The fact that the United States and President Donald Trump have opposed the International Criminal Court's attempts to launch an investigation into suspected war crimes by US troops in Afghanistan, including by denying ICC personnel a visa, is very serious. In September 2020, sanctions were extended by the United States. Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda and Head of the ICC Phakiso Mochochoko were subject to a travel ban, and their assets were frozen. The action of the United States undermines international law as well as justice for the Afghan people. On 23 and 24 November, a donor conference on Afghanistan took place at the initiative of Finland. This kind of conference on Afghanistan takes place every four years. The donor countries have now renewed their commitments to support development in the country. Sweden has strong ties with Afghanistan through the many Afghans who today live in our country and all Swedes who have engaged in solidarity work with Afghanistan for decades. Through the successful work of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee in the country for more than four decades, Sweden has gained credibility and created a unique network of contacts. Sweden could therefore become a key player for peace, democracy and gender equality in Afghanistan. However, this requires a shift in focus from military operations to civilian and political efforts. With that, Madam President, I propose rejecting the proposal and agreeing to reservation number 1. We do not ask for a vote, but of course we also support our reservation number 2.
i-e8e40301e832376e-29	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long engagement in Afghanistan – military and security for almost 20 years, humanitarian and developmentally significantly longer than that. By an agreement between the then bourgeois government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, Sweden committed itself long-term to a ten-year international commitment to development aid to Afghanistan. Since then, Afghanistan is Sweden's largest single beneficiary country of bilateral development assistance. Fundamental to development is the existence of security, and without development there will be no sustainable security. It is therefore important to see Sweden's collective engagement in Afghanistan, both military and civilian. In this debate we are talking about the military effort and the decision taken by Parliament on the basis of the Government's proposal to send men and women into an armed operation at risk of life and health. This is something that we take very seriously, and all armed efforts are ultimately decided here in the Swedish Parliament. It is important for popular support, transparency and accountability. We strive for as broad a consensus as possible, preferably total unity between all eight parties. Unfortunately, we do not fully agree on this case. The Swedish Democrats and the Left Party do not want Sweden to participate in the international military operation in Afghanistan. I'm sorry about that. It is important for the staff on duty that they feel that they have full support from home in carrying out their duties. Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world, and where there is great poverty, there is often also a lot of violence. In Afghanistan, many farmers are forced to grow opium raw materials into the cocaine that flows in the world. Whether they feel financially compelled to do so or forced to do so by armed threats and harassment, it is equally bad. To break this negative situation, development and security must be created. Sweden works with both parts. Through a fantastic and very sustained work through the Swedish Afghanistan Committee – for several decades, as Håkan Svenneling said – large parts of both the education system and the health care system in the rural areas of Afghanistan are run. This is mainly done with Afghan staff who have been trained for the task, thereby creating long-term and lasting development results. The proportion of children and especially girls receiving education has increased significantly. Knowledge is an important foundation for every community building, and the long-term construction of society is in full swing in Afghanistan. But for the construction of society to work, society must also be safe. Sweden has been involved in the construction of security with other countries for almost 20 years, initially with very large efforts in the country and in recent years with fewer staff, but now focused on training and supporting Afghanistan's own police and military. As with schools and health care, the aim is to raise Afghanistan's own skills and to be able to stand on its own feet, both civilly and in terms of security. The basis for Sweden doing this is to support a rule-based world order. More than 20 years ago, Afghanistan was a non-functioning state in which terrorists had a safe haven to train and operate both in the face of terrorist acts. It is always important that there is a mandate in international law for the international military operations in which Sweden participates. In this case, the basis is an invitation from the Afghan Government to NATO, which is leading the operation. Knowledge and implementation of UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is of central importance for Swedish personnel in the operation. Therefore, they receive special training in this regard in their preparations. It is important for the international military operation to contribute to conflict resolution and lasting peace in Afghanistan. Gender equality and greater respect for human rights, not least women's and girls' rights, is a central part of Sweden's overall commitment to Afghanistan. Afghanistan continues to need international military support for the development of Afghan defence and security structures' capacity to manage security in the country. The security situation has deteriorated again. It places considerable strain on Afghan defence and security forces, and their overall ability to manage security in the country is uneven. It is of great importance that the international community, including Sweden, continues to support and assist the Afghan Government in its quest for a stable and secure society in the long term. As has been pointed out in this debate, Afghanistan has, of course, also been affected by the covid-19 epidemic. At times, the spread of infection has been large, and in a poor country with very limited resources, the socio-economic consequences are considerable and very severe. The consequences of the pandemic have also contributed to the deterioration of the security situation. Finally, I would like to thank the 50 people who will be serving in Afghanistan in the effort that the Parliament is now deciding on. I would also like to thank all the women and men who have already served in previous operations. Some have made it a very high personal price, or even the ultimate price: their life. Many thanks to all of them and also to their relatives, who are also an important part of that Sweden can contribute to Afghanistan with this effort. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved.
i-e8e40301e832376e-44	Madam President, I would like Let me begin as chairman of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which has drawn up the draft decisions on this matter and the other two, on Swedish military participation in international operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and Mali respectively. Thanks to the representatives of the Swedish Armed Forces at all levels – women and men – who participate! You do so on behalf of Sweden through decisions in the country's parliament. We are responsible for sending you on important but also dangerous and difficult missions. You do it to serve the cause of peace and the interests of Sweden. A big thank you to all loved ones – your families – who proudly welcome you home and in the meantime follow your missions abroad with all the love and commitment. Madam President, I would like Sweden, together with other countries, has for a long time shown a strong commitment behind Afghanistan. Over the years, we have been a major donor. Following the terrible attacks of 11 September 2001, we have been part of the international coalition against terror. The former insanity rule of the Taliban, with attacks on the human rights and freedoms of their own citizens, especially women, and heinous crimes in the name of their own religious interpretation, resulted in a broad commitment to trying to build the country, create the conditions for security and security, and combat fundamentalism. Simply put, Sweden has entered in common with others, and we will leave the country in common with others. For this reason, it has been worrying that there have been calls from the President of the United States and the outgoing administration leading to a unilateral withdrawal and to abandon something common without coordination. During the committee's deliberations with representatives of the government and the Armed Forces, it has been shown that no formal advances have been made by the US side, and every day we move closer to a new President of the White House, with all the possibilities for new news. This makes it reasonable that parties that have previously supported Sweden's efforts in Afghanistan continue to do so, with all the reservations created by land insecurity and covid-19. Madam President, I would like In Sweden there has been a strong commitment to Afghanistan for a long time. My own picture from the study period in Uppsala quite a long time ago is the collections at the square on Saturdays for the benefit of the people in the then Soviet Union controlled the country and how the collection chests cluttered with coins from the passersby. Things have happened in recent years. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee writes this year, 2020, that it is frustrated that poverty levels in Afghanistan do not decrease, but at the same time great progress has been made in Afghanistan. Aid has led to maternal mortality more than halved since 2002. Child mortality has also decreased by nearly half between 2010 and 2018. The number of children in Afghan school has increased from about one million children in 2001 to about 7-8 million today. ..................................................... That's making a difference. However, the UN stated at the beginning of 2020 that more than 100 000 Afghan civilians were killed or injured in the conflict in Afghanistan in the 2010s. Afghan defence is largely dependent on US aid, and Afghanistan is heavily dependent on aid. That is why Sweden has been there militarily to assist in the training of the forces that have to shoulder the responsibility for protecting and defending their own population in the long term. Madam President, I would like This means that the Swedish Government needs to closely monitor developments in negotiations between the Taliban, which are about to regain power and control, and the Afghan Government, as well as the US military presence, and to be prepared for the force contribution to leave the country earlier if the Americans leave Afghanistan at an early stage, according to the motto, in together and out together. The NATO Foreign Ministers met on Wednesday 2 December. Secretary-Jens Stoltenberg said that the Allies are facing a crossroads in the coming years. It is important for the government, when information is available, to return to the Riksdag. Efforts and sacrifices are not in vain. With the help of the Swedish Armed Forces, Sweden has helped to build security and stability in Afghanistan. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are behind this decision in respect of all those who have served or may be serving in Afghanistan, but not without concern and concern for further developments in the country.
i-qzZ6UnnWyCjKXEJfZ6qyt	Madam President, I would like To assist Afghanistan's security forces with training and advice, the Christian Democrats share the government's assessment that Sweden's participation in the Resolute Support Mission will remain in 2021. The Swedish armed force consists of 50 people. If the situation so requires, it shall be possible to provide additional staff – up to 150 persons. In addition to advice and training, the purpose of this operation, as we have heard, is to strengthen the capacity of the security forces to respond to threats to the civilian population and to public security. There is no doubt that the security situation in Afghanistan is deeply worrying and that political contradictions and violence have long been destabilising the country. Despite increased peace efforts, armed conflicts and terrorism are the main threats to stability and economic development. Domestic policy is characterised by deep contradictions and ethnic conflicts. At the same time, the humanitarian situation has further deteriorated. The spread of the Corona virus is extensive, with serious consequences. In other words, the overall situation is deeply serious. Different causes contribute to instability and uncertainty that hamper the country's development. Against this background, it is clear that Afghanistan continues to need international military support. Sweden's participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission is an important contribution in this context. Long-term support for Afghanistan is urgent and proper in substance. And it is reasonable for us from the Swedish side to do what we can to assist a severely vulnerable population, even if, as usual, the Left Party puts its aversion against NATO over meaningful humanitarian efforts. Madam President, I would like In the image of today's Afghanistan, there has been a settlement between the Taliban movement and the United States since the beginning of the year. The so-called Doha Agreement of February provides for domestic political negotiations between the Taliban movement and its Afghan counterparts to follow with a view to reaching a ceasefire and a settlement of the country's political future. The agreement also means that all foreign military units will be withdrawn before the end of May 2021. Thus, the NATO operation, including Sweden's troops contribution, may be affected. However, one condition for withdrawal is that the Taliban movement provides guarantees that no groups or individuals will be able to use Afghanistan in future for purposes that jeopardise the security of the United States and its allies. Unfortunately, since the conclusion of the Doha Agreement, the Taliban movement has continued to carry out violent attacks against the Afghan Government with numerous civilian victims as a result. In parallel, the attacks on international organisations continue, which of course further complicates the situation. The extent to which the announced withdrawal of troops will take place is therefore uncertain against this background. Madam President, I would like In Afghanistan, militant Islamism in various guises threatens peaceful development and democracy, as well as the lives and future of innocent people. That is why the efforts made are so important. They protect civilians and contribute to security. From the Christian Democrats' side, we believe that Sweden should do more and take greater responsibility in the work that is ultimately about countering threats to international peace and security. The Swedish Armed Forces' personnel make outstanding efforts and are valued around the world for their professionalism and know-how. As Swedes, we have every reason to be proud of the men and women in uniform who over the years have taken on the difficult and complicated task of trying to contribute to greater security in Afghanistan. To all of you who have participated and who are on this mission, I would like, on behalf of my party, to express my warm thanks. You're making a difference in one of the most conflict-affected countries in the world. Madam President, I would like Finally, for the Christian Democrats, the Swedish contribution of strength is part of a coherent and long-term commitment to Afghanistan. The fact that in this debate today we are focusing on security must not obscure the fact that aid, humanitarian aid and support for democracy are what, in the long term, create the conditions for a better life and for peace for the people of Afghanistan. These efforts are the important support, and the important support for Afghan civil society must of course continue. With this, I support the committee's proposal that the Parliament should agree to an extension of the Swedish troops' contribution to the Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan.
i-e8e40301e832376e-67	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the previous speakers from the other parties! I would like to begin by thanking our staff on the ground, our women and men who are risking their lives, are putting themselves in great danger and, through their efforts, contribute to security, security and that human rights enjoy greater respect in the world and are representatives of Sweden. We can be proud and confident that our men and women on the ground, our military personnel, are actually very good, professional representatives of our country in this tough effort. Of course, Madam President, many thanks also to their relatives and to those who have previously served or served in other operations. Madam President, I would like Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world. When a country is as poor as Afghanistan, it is a breeding ground for extremism, fundamentalism, violence of various kinds, terrorism and serious crime. As mentioned earlier in this debate, Afghanistan is the world's leading producer of opium, which is the raw material for heroin, to name a few. In Afghanistan too few children are allowed to attend school. Too many people do not receive the care they need. And it's definitely for many people who don't feel safe, who live in uncertainty in a society where you can be subjected to violence of absolutely terrible proportions. Madam President, I would like It is for this reason that the commitment of Sweden and other democracies to Afghanistan needs to be both long-term and broad. We are making efforts in Afghanistan militarily, and that is what we are debating here today, but also on the aid side and humanitarian, because those things are working together. This is a country where people's rights are not respected. Peace has not been enjoyed or enjoyed. Safety is very low. Ethnic and religious conflicts have characterized the country for a very long time and are likely to flare up over and over again. Then, as politicians in democracies and as citizens of democracies, we must face this with a policy that deals with people's right to peace and freedom and respect for fundamental human rights, but also with people's right to school and care, for example. Madam President, I would like It is for this reason that this effort is so incredibly important. It is about ensuring that people in peace and security can enjoy their human rights. Madam President, I would like Afghanistan has been a haven for terrorism. It has been a place where terrorists, terrorist organisations, extremists and fundamentalists, as I said before, have been able to operate freely. They have been able to train and educate their followers. And we're not supposed to believe anything but that it can happen again. There are constant attempts to re-establish land that has not been used in the past and to establish itself again in a way that has not been possible during the time when international efforts have been so intense in Afghanistan. There are constant advances and attempts by these organizations. It is for this reason that long-termism is important. You can't believe it's possible to solve a task one day, leave the country the next day and then think it'll work out, it'll work. This is a complex situation, and the country is still torn by the poverty that is at the root of all the other problems. Madam President, I would like US President Donald Trump, Left Party and Swedish Democrats have all expressed the desire for their countries to unilaterally leave this important commitment to human rights, security and stability. I am therefore pleased that the other parties in the Swedish Parliament jointly support this effort. It is important for our staff on the ground to feel confident that the full force of democracy supports their important work. It also creates the necessary stability to ensure long-term respect for human rights. In addition, we shall fulfil our commitments. We have said that we should go into this effort together with others and leave it with them. It is not responsible to represent the line that Donald Trump, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats represent: that a party should unilaterally leave something that has been decided to do together with others. Madam President, I would like It has also been stated that it is a tough and complex situation in Afghanistan. The fact that the pandemic has hit the country hard, that there are internal political conflicts and that terrorism and fundamentalism are poking at to regain more influence would be reason not to be there. It's just the opposite. It is precisely because it is a complex situation, because it is a powder keg and because there are extremely high risks that professional personnel from countries with democratic values are needed that are trained to deal with this type of situation. That's why we're needed. Madam President, I would like We need to protect innocent people's lives and ensure that Sweden's aid money can work to create school, care and respect for human rights and prevent the dark forces from growing strong again. That is why I am pleased that I and a majority in the Parliament today are in favour of Sweden's continued participation in Afghanistan. Because of the complexity, it will be very important that we and the government follow this closely and that the Riksdag receive proper reports. Complexity, however, is never a reason to back down. Complexity is a reason for democracies and democrats around the world to join forces and combat terrorism, fundamentalism, violence and poverty that have unfortunately been damaging Afghanistan for such a long time.
i-e8e40301e832376e-79	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. Sweden is a safe country. We are spared wars and disasters, we live in a democracy and we are one of the richest countries in the world. It gives us a responsibility to work for peace and security in the world and to work for more people to have the freedom that we so easily take for granted. With a variety of efforts around the world, Sweden is involved in building peace, stability and democracy. We have done that for a long time, and we will continue to do so. The effort we are debating today in Afghanistan is just one example of our long-standing and deep commitment to Afghanistan. We need to be a partner of solidarity, credibility and responsibility in international crisis management operations that build security together with others. For too long Afghanistan has been the centre of a conflict that has cost many people their lives. This conflict is the biggest single obstacle to the country's development and to the construction of a real democracy and the safeguarding of human rights. For example, the number of attacks on international organisations and aid organisations is still high. There are many factors that contribute to the instability and constant change of the situation in Afghanistan. The pandemic outbreak has exacerbated the situation there as well as in many other places. It means we don't have time to wait and see. When a firefight flares up and both women and children end up in the pits of terrorists and Islamists, the international community cannot just stand and watch passively. At this point, we must do what we can to contribute to peace and stability, and when Afghanistan claims to have a continued need for international military support for its development, we are happy to help. The purpose of Sweden's operation is to assist the Afghan security forces with training and advice to strengthen their own ability to independently manage the country's security. The Swedish military contribution is important but only part of Sweden's broad and long-term commitment to Afghanistan. Military action is not the only thing. To build security, we need to use a variety of tools such as diplomacy, mediation, conflict prevention and confidence building, as well as national, civilian, police and military capabilities. In addition, Sweden has extensive development cooperation with Afghanistan both bilaterally and through the UN and the EU. We also provide a great deal of humanitarian aid to the country, which is absolutely crucial. In this development cooperation, we focus on democracy, gender equality, human rights, education, employment and private sector and rural development. The work of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee is long-term and very important. Sweden also has, through UN Resolution 1325 and the Folke Bernadotte Academy, a special strategy to continue focusing on women's participation in peace processes. It is important in itself but also in order to achieve the goal of lasting peace and democracy. It is important that the international community, including Sweden, continues to support and assist the Afghan Government in its quest for stability and a secure society in the long term. Madam President, I would like This work is part of it. Together with others, we will use all available tools to reverse developments in Afghanistan. These investments in the country will hopefully contribute to a long-term peace built by the country's own military, legal system and democracy. Like others here today, I would like to take this opportunity to express my great thanks to the women and men who take the hard fight on the ground for freedom – not just for our freedom but for everyone's. These men and women in the Swedish defence are making huge efforts with the risk of their own lives. For that they have the great support and gratitude of my people and the entire Swedish people.
i-e8e40301e832376e-91	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to emphasise the thanks and respect of the government to those who serve and have served in Afghanistan and for the efforts they make in that daily life. I note that there is broad support in Parliament for the Government's proposals. That is a good thing, because we need broad support when we send men and women to international action. Right now there are 16 people in place in RSM from the Swedish side. The government is requesting a maximum mandate of 200 people. Under normal circumstances, the Swedish contribution usually amounts to a maximum of 50 people. The cost is SEK 60 million and is estimated at 50 people. The term of office is from 1 January to 31 December 2021, and it is about staff officers and advisors. The mission is to contribute staff officers to the RSM and advisors to the Afghan security forces. The mandate is based on an international legal basis, with the invitation of the Afghan Government. The Isafin movement started in 2021, and since then a lot has happened. Looking at the facts from the United Nations, UN data, UNESCO and Sida, the following can be observed: The average life expectancy in Afghanistan has increased from the year 2000, when it was 57 years old, to 66 years in 2020. Child mortality has fallen from 8.4 per cent in 2000 to 4.4 per cent in 2020. Maternal mortality has fallen significantly since 2002 from 1,600 to 400 women per 100,000 inhabitants. Four thousand midwives have graduated – this compares with ten years ago when it was about 500. The number of children surviving their fifth birthday has increased: 12% mortality in 2000 and 5.7 percent mortality in 2020. Literacy has increased. Today, 39% of girls in comprehensive school go against 3% under Taliban rule. The number of Internet users has also increased. Of course, civilian and military efforts have had a major impact on security and security in Afghanistan and on developing this society in a more reasonable direction. I think that is something that one should still be able to stand by and be able to say clearly. It's very important. Our efforts with the other countries have been of great importance. I note that it has sat down at the negotiating table in order to reach a political solution. At the same time, it should be stressed that the prospects for the outcome of the negotiations are uncertain. There is strong uncertainty about developments in Afghanistan and also about how it affects the conditions for an RSM operation. The terms of the agreement state that foreign troops will leave Afghanistan before May 2021. Nevertheless, it should be made clear that there may be objections to realism in that timetable. This means that the Swedish contribution must and must be prepared to phase out in 2021 in consultation with the operation's leadership, NATO and partner countries. But Sweden, like the other countries that contribute to the RSM, must work according to the principle. This means that the implementation of changes in the operation and the closure of the operation will take place together with the other contributing countries. For the Swedish part, this means that Sweden has close dialogue with the USA and Germany and other countries that under the direction of Germany operate within the northern training command located in Mazar-e Sharif. We will inform the Riksdag from the Government when we have information to provide. We are following developments very closely. In talks with the US, Sweden and other force-providing countries have clearly stated the importance of the US government acting with predictability and transparency, transparency, as well as consultation of partner countries in the context of both efforts in connection with changes in the presence of troops. This is important for the credibility and trust of the efforts of this alliance. Although 2021 may be the year in which Sweden terminates the current military contribution to Afghanistan, we must be prepared to continue over the summer and in the autumn and be prepared to be present during the next year in some form. Sweden is a small contributor in RSM to the numerary right now. But our contribution is characterised by loyalty and high professionalism. Sweden is a partner to be trusted. We matter, we're in and we make a difference. This is also important from the point of view of national defence. Of course, if you contribute with international efforts and prove to be professional and loyal and take the task seriously, it is also linked to the cooperation that you engage in in your own neighbourhood in order to build stability and security. That's how it works; it's not something you can ignore. This point of putting international missions directly against the needs of national defence is a wrong approach. Our line is focused on national defence, but it is about both, not either or. Problems that may arise in various parts of the world can also move quickly to Europe and our neighbourhood. From this perspective, our efforts are also of great importance for the protection of Sweden. Thus, in the light of the agreement negotiations that have taken place between the United States and the Taliban movement, we should be prepared – and it exists – to phase out participation in 2021. At the same time, we should be realistic and be prepared to continue our contribution. The situation in Afghanistan is not simple and not predictable, and that is one of the basic reasons why we are there. Nor can it be that we should open up with open eyes to Afghanistan to become a centre of international terrorism and that different groups that can act with violence and terror in an international context will have a greater foothold in the future. We can't act like that. We are professional, we are loyal and we show that we want to make a difference. That is the foundation we are working on from now on.
i-e8e40301e832376e-107	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start by correcting the Secretary of Defense. I can understand that there are a little bit of numbers in this context, but the ISAF force did not start in 2021 but in 2001. I guess that shows how long it's been around when you even mix up how long it's been going on. But that is a completely different issue I would like to raise in my line-shift with the Minister for Defence. In his speech, the Minister for Defence addresses the importance of military cooperation, and this effort is closely linked to cooperation with the United States. As I mentioned in my speech, it is a very serious development that the United States and its President Donald Trump are trying to counter the ICC's attempts to investigate possible war crimes by US troops in Afghanistan. The ICC staff has been denied a visa and has also imposed sanctions on the head of the ICC and the prosecutor responsible for the case. They have also frozen funds for these people and their families. This undermines international law. As a result, the Afghan people have not obtained justice for the war crimes that have been committed. I've got a thought. The Secretary of Defense is known for his good contacts with the United States, especially on the military side. During his time as Minister of Defence, he has been the one who has pushed and increased ties with the United States very strongly. I wonder how the Secretary of Defence has addressed the possible war crimes committed by American soldiers in his contacts with the United States. Has he pressed for this to be investigated and for them to be held to account within the International Criminal Court? And has he raised the issue of sanctions against the International Criminal Court and fought for their lifting?
i-e8e40301e832376e-112	Madam President, I would like The year 2021 has not yet happened, and Svenneling may know about that. Of course, this started in 2001. If I managed to express myself incorrectly here, I apologise for that. The Left Party has a different view of this whole conflict from that of the government. I think it is extremely important that we now deal with this in such a way that Afghanistan does not become a source of international terrorism in the future and that we can safeguard the various kinds of results that have been achieved in the operation and for which I have explained. This is a result for both the military and the civilian. Then our position is that war crimes should always be prosecuted. War crimes are to be dealt with within the international laws and frameworks that exist and that we have established in the international community. That is the attitude of the Swedish Government. What reasoning I have with the United States in different contexts is nothing that I intend to highlight in this context.
i-e8e40301e832376e-116	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start by agreeing with the Secretary of Defense. I think it is incredibly important that the world around us and, above all, Sweden care about developments in Afghanistan. We in the Left Party made our choice in terms of how we looked at developments at an early stage. And we have repeatedly criticised the election made by the government when it joined the US military operation in Afghanistan. We can stand a long time and debate what has been. But I think it's incredibly important that we care about the future. With regard to contacts with the United States, it is sad that the Secretary of Defense does not want to report whether he has lifted the serious possible war crimes and these sanctions. But I would like to send this to the Minister for Defence: I think that the Minister for Defence, who is in good contact with the world's largest military, has a responsibility to point out their responsibilities in prosecuting war crimes and bringing people to account. From the United States, the argument has been that one wants to manage this within one's own system. But then you do two strange things. One is that it does not actually do so within the American military system. The second is that sanctions are being imposed on people who are working for war crimes to be investigated. Here, Sweden must stand up clearly – whether it is a foreign minister or a defence minister.
i-e8e40301e832376e-121	Madam President, I would like We'll care about the future. That is why we must also see what we have contributed to Afghanistan in the years that have gone by, what it has led to, and what risks there are if we make too urgent changes, so that we do not create a situation where we are back on square one again. It is important to have a strategy on how to manage the future in a stable, well thought-out and realistic way. That is something that underpins the government's position. Then I repeat what I have said: violations of international law must be prosecuted, and it must be dealt with within the international agreements that exist. This is something that we in the Swedish Government are working for in different international forums and in different contexts.
i-e8e40301e832376e-123	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the regular report on Swedish participation in the training effort in Iraq. As in the past, the Swedish contribution will consist mainly of staff for staffing of staff and mentoring the Iraqi security forces. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, great if we can contribute to stability and security in the region, and that is something that we definitely support. Not least, it is fantastic if we can support in different ways those groups that are still forced to live close to Islamist groups such as Al-Qaida or the Islamic State. The situation of minorities, such as Yazidians and Christians, is extremely tough. Sadly, they are constantly subjected to systematic oppression. Now that we are contributing to an estimated effort in the country, we must not ignore this; on the contrary, these particular groups should receive a great deal of support. We must ensure that, above all, the particularly vulnerable groups receive the support that we offer. The committee notes in this report that rapid military and political developments in Iraq place high demands on flexibility in the task and geographical location of the Swedish contribution. That is quite correct. But who are we actually helping, and how can we know that those who receive Swedish support do not themselves commit abominable crimes? These are, to say the least, relevant issues that deserve all the attention and scrutiny. We cannot, under any circumstances, stand here and make decisions knowing that we have contributed directly or indirectly to actions that we must condemn at the next moment. That is why we Swedish democrats have repeatedly pointed out that it is very strange that they have chosen to abandon successful cooperation with the Kurdish forces in the north in favour of general support aimed primarily at the heavily criticised Iraqi Government. We have clearly seen how the Shiadominated Iraqi Government has moved in a direction that in no way contributes to the fact that the different groups in the country can live side by side in harmony with each other. The links with the terrorist state of Iran are growing every day, which is not very unexpected. And threats to the West are increasing as people are encouraged to show their hatred of the United States, among others. The Swedish successor and former Iraqi Minister for Defence is an example of the bizarre fact that Sweden risks indirectly supporting abominable acts in good faith. As most people know, this former Minister of Defence has not only been suspected of aid crimes in Sweden. He has also been suspected of war crimes when he was Minister of Defence in Iraq. What has actually happened in Iraq in recent years? Fortunately, the Islamic State has been pushed back and does not pose at all the same threat as before, although the various cells of the terror cult still carry out terrible and ruthless attacks. At the same time, sectarian tensions between different ethnic, religious and cultural groups have increased. And the Iraqi Government has – heard and astounded – used its own troops to militaryly attack and occupy areas controlled by the self-governing Iraqi KRG region. Diplomatic mediation attempts on the part of the KRG in spite of the attack, which has brought havoc and death – for nothing, one might add. To help, the perpetrators have had materiel such as weapons and combat vehicles donated by the United States and other countries – these have rather been meant to be used in the fight against Islamic terrorists. Madam President, I would like Let me make this clear: the Iraqi Government has used military force with foreign aid against its own people. In all seriousness, the Swedish Government and a number of parliamentary parties in this House want to continue to cooperate with that government. In all seriousness, it is considered to be an appropriate partner in order to promote stable and peaceful development in the region. I don't know how it works. I do not think I need to say any more, Madam President. We will stand up for the victims and not contribute to oppression. For this reason, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-e8e40301e832376e-135	Madam President, I would like I would like to say a big thank you to all of you who are here or who have been on foreign assignments for Sweden. This is a difficult task to which we send you in Parliament, and for your contribution we in the Left Party wish to express our appreciation. Madam President, I would like Prior to this year's decision on a military operation in Iraq, the Left Party has changed its position and made a new position. From supporting the operation in the past, we will today vote against the government's proposal for a military operation in Iraq. This is not because of a fall in commitment to Iraq and to the Iraqi people, but because of the opposite. We want to see increased civil engagement from the Swedish side in Iraq. The Left Party has supported the Swedish educational effort at times when the issue has been raised for decisions in the Riksdag. We believe that Sweden should stand up for solidarity when the international community calls for it and when there is a mandate in international law, such as in this case when an individual country is in need of help in combating a brutal terrorist organisation, such as IS or Daish. However, each individual intervention must be determined on a case-by-case basis and closely monitored over time. Due to the changed security situation, but above all due to the changing nature of the operation, the Left Party has re-evaluated its position on the Swedish training operation in Iraq. The situation in Iraq is still unstable, and the risk of IS succeeding in growing and winning new land remains. The Left Party wishes to emphasise the importance of Sweden continuing to participate actively in the global coalition against Daish. It is also crucial that the breeding ground for terrorism and extremism is countered. Daish's emergence is in many respects a symptom of political discontent. These include humanitarian aid, combating corruption and unemployment, improving public services, increasing security and security and, in particular, increasing equality and equality between social groups. Iraq has been tried hard by wars and conflicts for a long time. According to the UN, there are 1.6 million internally displaced persons, and there are major shortcomings in terms of democracy and human rights – for example, the death penalty is applied. The need for humanitarian aid for the reconstruction of the country is great, not least in the areas that have been freed from Daish. In the bill, the government briefly notes the need for support and also mentions the extensive protests that shook the country in early October 2019. Thousands of people then demonstrated against high unemployment, widespread corruption and recurrent power and water outages. The demonstrations met with violent violence from the police and military; the internet and social media were shut down. The UN has reported that more than 500 demonstrators have been killed and nearly 7,800 injured. The Iraqi army has admitted that its forces have used too much violence against the demonstrators and announced that those responsible will be held accountable, which, however, has not yet happened. The Left Party is very critical of the Iraqi Government's response to demonstrators with legitimate demands for a better standard of living. For Sweden, this is particularly serious in view of the fact that the Swedish operation is training the Iraqi military who has been involved in the violence against its own population. In the spring of 2017, information was also received on aggravated assaults by Iraqi forces against captured IS terrorists. All in all, these events raise questions about the content of the training effort in which Sweden participates. The escalating conflict between the United States and Iran has a major impact on Iraq. The irresponsible action of the United States and Donald Trump to extrajudicially execute Iranian general Qasem Soleimani has led to increased risks for our Swedish soldiers. One example is the attack in March from Iranian-supported militia against the Taji base where Swedish personnel are stationed and where two American and a British soldier were killed. The changed security situation should be taken into account in relation to Swedish participation. In March 2020, the Swedish Armed Forces decided to temporarily take home the Swedish personnel because the coronapandemine has reduced the demand for education. Currently, only three persons from the Swedish Armed Forces are present in Iraq. But it is above all the change in the effort as such that means that the Left Party can no longer support the Swedish effort. The government writes briefly in its proposal about the relationship between Operation Inherent Resolve, OIR, in which Sweden participates, and NATO Mission in Iraq. In the light of the transition to a new phase for the OIR, discussions are ongoing on future coordination with the NATO operation. The Left Party believes that closer cooperation with the NATO operation makes Swedish participation in the OIR impossible. Sweden has already decided to contribute to the NATO operation as such. Swedish integration with NATO has been going on for a long time. During the same time, NATO and NATO countries have waged three failed wars in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. These wars have contributed to great suffering, to the flight of millions of people and to the emergence of the terrorist organisation IS. It should also be noted that Sweden was opposed to the war in Iraq. Nevertheless, NATO chose to attack 20 years ago. Now we're still going to join in its efforts. When the Swedish participation in the NATO-led operation ISAF in Afghanistan, which we debated earlier, was evaluated, the criticism was devastating against the organisational collapse of NATO structures and countries. While Sweden's participation in NATO operations draws resources from Sweden's own defence, it is difficult to see how it enhances Sweden's defence capabilities. The quest for greater interoperability also makes us increasingly dependent on NATO and creates the image of Sweden as an unofficial NATO member – something that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats will contribute to on Monday with the so-called NATO option. The Left Party is critical of Sweden's defence being increasingly integrated into NATO structures and with NATO defence organisations. The fact that the two operations in Iraq are now being brought closer together means that Sweden should refrain from participating in this military operation. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 1, which rejects the proposal.
i-Fm5DXUN5247JPuB56byaqm	Madam President, I would like In the bill Continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq, the Government proposes that the Riksdag admits that the Government will make available a Swedish armed force consisting of a maximum of 220 persons until 31 December 2021 to participate in the military training operation in Iraq at the invitation of Iraq. In spring 2017, I had the great privilege of visiting the Swedish unit that then served in Iraq. I use the word affluence."It was, of course, a war zone with a lot of misery and many tragedies, but there was also great respect for the Swedish unit in place and for the effort made by the unit. I think it is an important experience for us Members of Parliament, who quite often make this kind of decision here in Parliament, to meet the unit on site and see how progress is made. It is an important knowledge and experience to have with you. The Swedish Force Grant shall consist of a maximum of 70 people on site. If the situation so requires, it shall be possible to provide, in addition to the force contribution itself, a temporary reinforcement and evacuation force of not more than 150 persons. The Swedish contribution of strength to the operation will mainly be made up of staff to staff staff members relevant to the operation and mentoring the Iraqi security forces, in order to contribute to their ability to resist and defeat Daish. Sweden will also be prepared to provide, if necessary, staff for, for example, protection and guarding, as well as for training at all the bases of the coalition. Madam President, I would like The reputation of participation from other countries has been consistent, both in terms of how our soldiers behave and in terms of using soldiers and not just officers in the training effort. I think that is something we should take with us for the future. Today, the global coalition includes 77 countries, including Sweden, several other EU countries and countries in the region, as well as five organisations. Iraq and the United States are responsible for overall coordination. The coalition works in five main areas: military operations and counter-terrorism, countering terrorist financing, foreign terrorist fighters, information and counter-messages, and stabilisation support. Sweden is part of the coalition's core team, which consists of more than 30 contributors. This is, of course, a politically difficult situation in Iraq. There is faith in the future and a desire to build and create a society in peace and community. The bill states that Daish remains a real threat to Iraq's stability and global security. In the spring of 2020, there were reports of an increase in Daish's activity in Iraq, such as attacks on Iraqi security forces and economic targets. An influx of combatants from Syria is estimated to have strengthened the capacity of the terrorist organisation, although the escalation is not deemed to be a return to previous capabilities. The Government estimates that the cost of the Swedish grant in 2021 will amount to a maximum of SEK 126 million. The proposal demonstrates the government's commitment to peace, security and human rights and makes it clear that Sweden is an active partner to trust in the international coalition. Sweden does not stand passively alongside and watch people being forced to flee their homes and become victims of abuse. These people deserve help from the outside world. They must be given the opportunity to live in stability, security and peace, just as we here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by making it clear that I have great respect and gratitude for the women and men who carry out these efforts. It is an important signal that we take these decisions in the Swedish Parliament so that they feel that we are fully behind them. This is something that Sweden believes in and that we can help with. With those words, I call for the proposal in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved.
i-e8e40301e832376e-159	Madam President, I would like The situation in Iraq is anything but simple. Sweden participates and contributes to assist the country but also to participate in an international coalition against the killer cult IS/ Daish who spread so much evil, death and despair. The self-proclaimed caliphate may be downrooted, but dedicated terrorists who, like a present-day SS unit, want to murder and maim in the self-righteous name of their own cause remain to fight and deal with. Some of them are also on their way home to our Europe after some time in Syria and Iraq. There is no doubt that the Moderates support the fact that Sweden clearly and as a loyal partner is part of the inner core that fights IS/ Daish, here at home or abroad. Even in Iraq, the signals from the United States of withdrawal create great uncertainty. The internal situation is also uncertain, not least through the forces and dedication that Iran maintains in its neighbour Iraq. Even though the caliphate is retreating, there are still those who are willing to continue their struggle with arms in hand. Today, the global coalition includes 77 countries, including Sweden, several other EU countries and countries in the region, as well as five organisations. The U.S. forces have been the majority of the coalition, but the Trump administration has announced several reductions in autumn 2020 and that it will be down to 2,500 soldiers in mid-January 2021. One risk of dismantling the global coalition and leaving Iraq is that IS/ Daish is given the opportunity to grow strong again. Nor is it easy to remove from the retina the images of when troops from the United States were allowed to abandon their Kurdish allies after a decision by Trump in the White House. It was a retreat that then played only the Syrian regime in the hands, playing the jihadists in the hands and playing Russia in the hands. Withdrawal must be deliberate, coordinated and with respect for all parties involved. On behalf of the Moderates, I request the approval of the proposal of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to allow the Government to provide an armed force of up to 220 persons until 31 December 2021. Madam President, I would like I would now like, following my plea for continued participation in Iraq and with the greatest respect for the participating personnel from the Armed Forces, to raise another issue in which our view is in stark contrast with that of the government. A year ago we also dealt with the continuation of the Swedish troops' contribution to Iraq. It turned out then that Iraq's Minister of Defence at the time made contributions from Sweden – even though they were registered here – and were suspected of war crimes. This is something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to following a complaint against, among other things, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. I also chaired the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. As a representative, each relevant task was almost toiled and pulled, while representatives of the government pointed in different directions. It is reasonable that the parliament should have access to all relevant information in preparation for important matters, and this is certainly the case with continuing military efforts. I still remember the scandal surrounding the Transport Agency when it was claimed that it was not possible to transfer things at the highest level because there was no safe room to talk together in. The Swedish military operations abroad are jointly prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence. In the review by the Constitutional Committee, criticism is being levelled at these two very two. They are criticised for not informing either the Minister for Foreign Affairs or Defence a year ago of the information that Iraq's then Minister for Defence was investigated for, among other things, serious fraud in Sweden and that he was also suspected of war crimes. At the same time, the same man was responsible for the Iraqi army and its actions – all ts å in a country which Sweden supports through military contributions. Ultimately, this is not just a question of information, it is a question of responsibility. A minister should not be able to claim that the person did not know certain conditions and thus avoid criticism if something goes wrong. The responsible ministers themselves must show leadership and take responsibility for the functioning of their authorities. Swedish security and Swedish life must not be cheated off because of shortcomings in Swedish administration. As a representative of the opposition, we now assume that the government side has presented all the information it has and is relevant to the important decisions of the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like Let me be crystal clear. I do not criticise the Swedish women and men who are sent out on international efforts. On the contrary, they are worthy of our respect and honor. However, I criticise the government and its representatives.
i-e8e40301e832376e-171	Madam President, I would like In order to contribute to increased capabilities of Iraq's defence forces, Sweden has since 2015 participated with military personnel in the country. Following the liberation of Mosul in July 2017, the Islamic State and the supposed caliphate could be defeated. At the same time, militant jihadism and Islamism have remained in Iraq. Over the past year, an increase in IS activities has been observed. These have been attacks on Iraqi security forces and against minority groups, among other things. The recruitment of IS terrorists from neighbouring Syria has strengthened the organisation's capabilities. International efforts and the global coalition against IS must therefore continue to work. As regards the Swedish Force Grant, the Government proposes an extension of the mandate in 2021. The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that Sweden, albeit to a small extent, is one of the 77 countries that are part of the international coalition against IS. We support the extension of the mandate while emphasising the importance of Swedish staff working with access to the best possible protection and security. Here and now, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, I would like to express my warm thanks to the women and men in uniform who are currently carrying out or have previously carried out the task. These efforts, in difficult circumstances, are worthy of the greatest respect. Madam President, I would like In the complicated picture of Iraq, Iran's increasing influence is the most worrying. Politically and militarily, the Islamic Republic strengthens its grip on the neighbouring country. The Shiite militia al-Shaabi al-Shaabi, which has tens of thousands of soldiers in Iraq, is controlled, controlled and funded directly by the dictatorship regime in Tehran. This is with the agreement of the Baghdad Government. As in any other context where Iran acts, the consequences are devastating. It is about deepening sectarian contradictions, it is about increased instability and it is basically about severe human suffering. The Christian communities in Iraq are among the worst affected. Several reports warn of harassment and persecution of Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans. An already difficult existence for them, because of the Iranian presence, becomes even more difficult. Added to this is a so-called demographic change, which changes the composition of the population. In cities and villages where Christian families due to IS genocide have moved out, Muslim families move in. In several places around Mosul and the plain of Nineves, where Christian communities have been in the majority for generations, Shia muslim Shabaker is now trying to take over. The responsibility for stopping this ethnic cleansing of Christians lies with the political leadership of Baghdad. The Iraqi Government has the opportunity to take the individual measure that would currently mean the most for the Christian communities. It is about upgrading the Nineves plain into provinces and giving Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans the right to decide their own future through political self-government. Madam President, I would like Political self-government is central. At the same time, it is clear that a secure future for Iraq's Christian communities cannot be built as long as Islamism and Jihadism poison society. Changing attitudes, countering extremism and preventing religious persecution requires greater and more intense international engagement in Iraq. Here, too, we in Sweden must take responsibility. With good bilateral relations, extensive assistance and now extended participation in the international coalition, the Swedish government has the opportunity to put political pressure on the leadership in Baghdad. The Christian Democrats hope, if not, that this will happen as soon as possible. With this, I support the proposal of the composite committee to approve an extension of the Swedish force contribution in Iraq.
i-e8e40301e832376e-183	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your previous remarks. Like previous speakers, I would like to begin by thanking the women and men who serve for Sweden. They serve to protect human rights, to combat extremism and terrorism and to build peace and security in Iraq and in other efforts in the world. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to their relatives and to those who have served in the past. Madam President, I would like The situation in Iraq is very difficult. I myself visited Iraq and the Kurdish part of Iraq during the independence vote. As is well known, it was before the terror cult Daish/ IS got its grip on the country and has since been countered back by the international efforts. I met people who were Kurds and people who were not Kurds but belonged to various Christian minorities. What I learned from them was that there is little difference. It is easy to sit safely here in Sweden, in the Chamber of Parliament and in the composite Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs and forget that we humans are quite alike no matter where on earth we are, Madam President. We also have quite the same need to live our lives in freedom, to live our lives as we want, to live in security, to be who we are and to have the same human rights and to have them guaranteed. I and others, of course, have followed developments in Iraq with deep sadness, perhaps above all the terrible crimes of the terror sect Daish against people, against people who have not been extremists and Islamists and who have the same aspirations for freedom as we in Sweden and we democrats in the Swedish Parliament. If you live in peace and freedom and in a country where human rights are guaranteed, you also have a responsibility, as a country and as an individual, to support people throughout the world in their fight for freedom and peace. You have a responsibility to step in and do what you can when people's freedom is restricted and peace and life are threatened. Sweden contributes through our efforts and our contribution to international efforts, both in Iraq and in other countries. In this case, we are helping to counter Daish and counter terrorism, extremism and fundamentalism. We help them not to grow stronger again. We do it not only for our own security, although it is also important. We are also doing this because we are human beings, because we have a responsibility to others and because human rights, which are ultimately at stake here, must be respected and protected throughout the world. Madam President, I would like However, we have an extra great responsibility in this, for the reason that Sweden has actually failed in the sense that people have left, from our country – people for whom we have been responsible and who have been citizens or lived in Sweden – to Iraq to join the terrorist cult IS. Of course, if we have failed at that end, we will have additional responsibilities at the other end. It is terrible to imagine that people who have fled Iraq to come to Sweden, for example, to live in freedom and build a life should have to meet people who have come home after being in Iraq and fought for the terror cult IS. Maybe they'll meet at the grocery store in the area where they live... maybe in Tensta, where I've lived myself. It's terrible to imagine. It is also terrible to imagine that their relatives in Iraq, for example, or they themselves have met people who come from Sweden who have been there to spread terrorism and terror and to murder people. Madam President, I would like It is clear that we as democrats and Sweden as a country have a responsibility to counteract at all ends where possible. We have a responsibility for this at home, and we have a responsibility for it in Iraq. This comes from the fact that Sweden is a developed country and that our rights are guaranteed. Madam President, I would like We are in favour of this. The situation is obviously complex. The situation is tough for many reasons. The development is difficult to predict before it happens. There are many different interests in the conflict that play in different directions. We in the Swedish Parliament will follow, read and talk with the government about this in reports. We will ensure that the part of the operation that Sweden will continue to participate in is managed in a responsible manner. I am pleased and proud that the staff who contribute on behalf of Sweden have very good education, are very professional and will contribute to security, stability and respect for human rights that I have talked about.
i-e8e40301e832376e-193	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for an interesting post! You said a lot of nice words, and I can actually do most of what you said. Having said that, as many other speakers have done today, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Swedes who have served in the educational effort in Iraq and elsewhere in the world. One thing, however, made me think a little bit. Joar Forssell said that he has met Kurds and others who are satisfied with the effort in various parts of Iraq. I am convinced that part of the effort can be satisfied, not least when we have sent Swedish efforts to support peshmerga in northern Iraq. I know the stakes have been highly appreciated. What I am asking myself a little bit about the effort we are now making there. It has shifted to focus more on the base of Taji and support the Baghdad regime. It is the same regime that attacked the KRG region militarily, that is, the Kurdish part. So they attacked their own people militarily, including a majority of Kurds. How does Joar Forssell view this?
i-e8e40301e832376e-196	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an urgent question from Markus Wiechel in the Swedish Democrats. If the honourable Member had listened properly, he would have heard that in my speech I did not claim that people whom I have met have been satisfied with the effort we are talking about here. Liberals are critical of much that Donald Trump has done, including that he has not supported the Kurds sufficiently. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals have always been critical when Sweden and the rest of the world have not supported peshmerga sufficiently, as Markus Wiechel knows if he has been following the debate in this House for a number of years. We will continue to be critical of this. We should always support the forces we can support. However, the effort that Sweden supports and will continue to support is about creating stability, and that means countering IS/ Daish. The terrorist cult IS/ Daish of course gets its strength not only from growing in, for example, the Kurdish part of Iraq but also from growing in several places. That is why I am talking about the responsibility we have to counteract them wherever they grow strong. Of course, Sweden cannot take this alone, but we must take it together with others. That is why we are doing this in the common structure that we have with others. However, I am quite sure that if we had not been in other parts of Iraq, this uncertainty would also spread to the Kurdish part of Iraq. So we share the concern.
i-BAB2UgoPnTRaEyCnDesXQ8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar, for the clarification! I have, of course, followed the position of the Liberals on this issue and am in favour of the goodwill shown by the Liberals in supporting the Kurds in Iraq, among others, but also Syria, as Mr Joar himself was concerned about. This line shares the Swedish Democrats. It is this, however, that makes me a little perplexed. We support the operation provided that Peshmerga is supported and Sweden contributes to the operation in northern Iraq. We know that there is a good government there – a government that has control over the territory and that wants well in a completely different way from what the Baghdad regime wants. This was seen not least when the regime in Baghdad attacked its own people in northern Iraq. This is what I wonder. How can Joar Forssell first say that he wants to support the Kurds and then vote in favour of a proposal aimed at supporting those who were perpetrators of Kurds?
i-e8e40301e832376e-204	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the Member of the Swedish Democrats. It is clear to me that the Kurdish Government, the KRG, and, incidentally, other minorities in the Kurdish part of Iraq and in the rest of Iraq share interest in this respect with both Sweden and the Iraqi forces. This interest means resisting, suppressing and ensuring that the terror cult Daish does not grow strong. If you do it in one part of the country, or for that part of another country, it will spread to the rest of the country. This is what we have seen. In this respect, it does not really matter where in the region the terror cult or other extremists, fundamentalists or violent supporters are growing strong because it will spread. For this reason, it will be important for us to be involved in the fight. We provide support by training and then have with us democratic values and the approach that our professional staff have brought with them from Sweden. However, if there had been a desire from the international community to be involved in providing support in the Kurdish part in the same way that has been done in the past, we would have been in favour of it. Once again, I regret that this is not done sufficiently. However, I still think it is important to combat, combat and ensure that the terror cult Daish does not grow strong again.
i-e8e40301e832376e-207	Madam President, I would like Over the past year, the Corona crisis has swept the world with all that it means for people's lives, health and economy. But while the world is dealing with a massive pandemic, wars and conflicts are taking place in the shadow of the coronan. The efforts that we debated a year ago in this House are still relevant. Just because a health threat struck down like a flash from the clear sky, it has not blown away all other wars and misery. The terror, the terror and the human suffering that the atrocities of the Islamic State leave behind is difficult for us to fully grasp and take in. These are scenes that I am happy that we do not need to see here in our vicinity, but nevertheless it goes right into the heart. The terrorism that IS stands for must be combated by all means by the international community, and anyone who can also contribute to that effort. Since 2017, Daish has been greatly weakened in Iraq, and many dare at last hope that development will continue in the right direction and that it will be possible to build a solid foundation for democratic development. However, Daish remains a real threat to Iraq's stability and to global security, despite a significant weakening of the organisation through the loss of territorial control. In the spring of 2020, there were reports of an increase in Daish's activity in Iraq, such as attacks on Iraqi security forces and economic targets. An influx of combatants from Syria is estimated to have strengthened capacity, although the escalation is not deemed to be a return to previous capabilities. Madam President, I would like What the government has now put on Parliament's table is a question of continuing Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. We are doing so at the invitation of Iraq and to be part of the global coalition that is fighting Daish. The coalition currently includes 77 countries, including Sweden, several other EU states and countries in the region, as well as five organisations. The coalition works in five main areas: military opera ions and counterterrorism, countering terrorist financing, foreign terrorist fighters, information and counter-messages, and stabilisation support. Sweden is part of the coalition's core team, which consists of more than 30 contributors. So we are in the process of acting together with the rest of the community for peace in a region which has suffered a great deal from instability and where, unfortunately, the war against IS cannot yet be declared won. The terror that the terrorist organisation locks up large sections of the population in is difficult for us and for the outside world to really understand, but through millions of testimony we have gained a broad and deep insight into the hell of that war that has been in the region for too long. Madam President, I would like What Sweden, together with others, chooses to do in the coming year is crucial for more people to be given a chance to live in a free society. Several million people in Iraq are in need of humanitarian aid, and 1.6 million people are on the run. For them, it is extremely important for Iraq to be more stable and secure. The developments we have seen in the past autumn are very serious and worrying. We are following it closely, and it is of the utmost importance to be able to provide security for the people of the country. The work for peace and stability must continue. It does not come by itself, but is a work that we must constantly prioritise. Madam President, I would like We have a shared responsibility for each other and for the world in which we live. Sweden's participation in international crisis management helps to maintain and strengthen the rule-based world order. Safety is built in many ways, but best we build it together with others. I would also like to thank all those who are involved every day and contribute to greater security and stability in Iraq. You Swedish men and women who have chosen to work in one of the world's most vulnerable countries do every day you are there a great contribution for very many people. What you do means a lot to many and to Sweden as a country.
i-e8e40301e832376e-215	Madam President, I would like 77 countries participate in the coalition against Daish. Today there are about 5,000 soldiers. It works mainly in five areas: military and counter-terrorism, countering the financing of terrorism, foreign terrorist fighters, information and counter-messages, and stabilisation support. These are the different dimensions of the coalition's work. Daish is militaryly defeated but exists in the area. According to estimates, there are still around 10 000 IS terrorists in the area. This makes it necessary for there to be an international coalition that continues to operate in the region so that the IS terrorists do not regain foothold and be able to dominate areas and terrorise the population, but also spread terrorism to the rest of the world, including Europe, perhaps our country too. The scope of the Swedish grant is currently three people in place. Two more will be added in December to advise the Iraqi security forces. The mandate requested by the Government concerns a maximum of 220 persons. Under normal circumstances, the grant shall amount to approximately 70 persons, provided that the protection and guarding capabilities, which are involved, are requested by the management of the operation. It is, of course, the case that within the framework of the operation the tasks are shared between the different countries. The cost is estimated at 126 million, which is based on a level of 70 people. The term of office shall be 1 January to 31 December 2021. It's about sending staff officers with the ability to provide protection and surveillance capabilities. Today we have two people at the command post in Baghdad and one person at the rear command post in Kuwait. At the moment, there is no request from the coalition for us to contribute to protection and surveillance. The basis of international law is then the invitation from the Iraqi Government. It's been a very intense year in Iraq. The year began with violent attacks on the coalition bases. One of the bases attacked was the Taji base northwest of Baghdad. There we had a Swedish unit, but no one was injured. I was in personal contact with the unit at this time. British and American soldiers were wounded. Three were killed in one of the attacks. Then Covid struck, too. This, of course, led to consequences, which included cancelling in principle all training activities within the coalition. The aim was, of course, to prevent further spread of infection. At the end of March, the Swedish Armed Forces decided to temporarily take home the Swedish personnel from Iraq, when no training was carried out and the Iranian-supported Shia groupings in Iraq intensified their rocket attacks. Our close partnership with the UK in the operation proved its worth when our British colleagues supported us with the repatriation of personnel and equipment. During the spring, all Swedish infrastructure on the Taji base was decommissioned. The effort has changed during the year and shifted focus and target group. We have gone from training at soldier level to training and mentoring officers in order to achieve long-term and strategic results. With this, the Swedish contribution to the operation has changed. I would like to say firmly that the global coalition against Daish and the effort in Iraq have made a difference. Sweden has made a difference. We shall be proud that together we have contributed to the military defeat of Daish in Iraq. I have visited Erbil and Baghdad myself. I have attended coalition meetings during the time I was Minister of Defence. I have followed developments very closely and seen the results achieved. According to almost weekly briefings, I have been able to follow developments and see who has dominated which area, what has been Daish dominated and what has been dominated by others, and how the battles have been done. This has not been easy. But the international coalition has made a difference. That's why we shouldn't let go of it now. We must be in this environment so that the 10 000 IS terrorists do not succeed in gaining a new foothold. It must be that approach, otherwise it will be in vain. If the Iraqi security forces are to stand on their own feet, continued support within the framework of the coalition is necessary. The division of tasks between NATO's operation NMI and OIR is currently being worked on within the NATO structure. I would like to remind you of the broad commitment that we have on the civilian side. We have comprehensive bilateral humanitarian aid and development aid. We shall be prepared to respond quickly to requests from the management of the operation for additional contributions. Such grants may include, for example, staff for training and for protection and surveillance. We have the framework that the bill states, where the normal position is to have a maximum of 70 people in place. It's normal circumstances. We shall be a professional, loyal and long-term sustainable partner. As far as human rights and Iraq's handling are concerned, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has condemned them. There have been direct talks with the Iraqi Government, there have been discussions within the framework of the European Union, with clear indications, and there has been reasoning within the framework of the coalition. Respect for democracy, human rights and democratic freedom of assembly are extremely important and important, and this is not something that has gone unnoticed. On the other hand, if we stop our contribution, Daish can advance his positions. It should be made clear that the coalition's presence has the side effect of limiting the ability of the Iranian militia groups to operate, but the coalition's mandate is to fight Daish. I believe that the coalition has an important stabilising role, which includes us. It is not the same as supporting or accepting things done in all kinds of parts of the Iraqi Government. Sweden supported peshmerga in Erbil, and I visited our unit that worked there during that time. I also had contacts with several different ministers in the Kurdish regime. What I had referred to was that it was an extremely welcome effort that had a very positive effect. The mandate of the presence is the invitation of the Iraqi Government, and the division of labour takes place within the framework of the coalition. We have no mandate in international law to make our own arrangements outside the coalition, but it is the mandate of international law and the invitation of the Iraqi Government on which our actions are based. Within the framework of the coalition, the contribution in Erbil has not been in demand at the moment, and the coalition is closing that part of the business at the beginning of next year. This is the pure fact of the matter. Mr Wallmark mentioned a side-track in this context which I would like to comment on. A KU report states that a preliminary investigation has been initiated against the Iraqi Minister of Defence on crimes against humanity. I should have been informed of this. I can only say that in these contexts, as far as that part is concerned, a pre-trial investigation on crimes against humanity was launched in November 2019, and on 8 July 2020 the prosecutor decided to close the pre-trial investigation. I want to make this clear so that it is clear to everyone how such a context and effort are connected. It is clear that the operation and the activities of the coalition are not governed by the Iraqi Government. The OIR is a military operation that has its contacts with Iraq at operational military level. The contacts that the OIR has with the political level in Iraq are of a protocol and ceremonial nature. There is no direct link between the political level in Iraq and the OIR that can in any way control what or who to train. The Iraqi Minister of Defence and the Iraqi Government have no role here. The fact that Iraq's Minister of Defence was a Swedish citizen has not affected Sweden's actions in Iraq nor the Swedish participation in the global coalition. There have been no indications that the security of the Swedish troops' contribution has been affected by what has come to light on the former Minister of Defence. I just want to have this said so that it is clear, because it is so easy to confuse one and the other. Iraq's Minister of Defence has no influence on the coalition's actions or on Swedish troops. I am pleased that there is broad support in Parliament for the bill, and I would like to thank the staff who have served and served in the area.
i-e8e40301e832376e-235	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist for his personal commitment and leadership on these issues, which deal with the important Swedish efforts abroad. I note that we are broadly in agreement on these issues, and I think it is important, as the Minister for Defence stressed, that there is as broad a consensus as possible here in Parliament on these efforts. I very much regret the deviation of the Left Party and, in several respects, of an almost irresponsible policy on these issues. As far as Iraq is concerned, the Minister for Defence and I also agree on developments. We share the concern for the expansion of the Islamic State and, as it stands, increased capacity. The main victims of the progress of the Islamic State have been the Christian communities in Iraq: Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans. They were the ones who, together with the Yazidians, suffered genocide by IS in 2014. I and many with me believe that one condition for Iraq to stabilise the situation in that country is that these minority groups are treated differently from what is happening today by the central government and also by Kurdish self-government. One of the most important measures is to give autonomy to the Nineves plain. This is also a great request.
i-e8e40301e832376e-239	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Lars Adaktusson, for the question! Working for self-government or for the recognition of different nations are things that are linked to different international regulations. What we have focused on in terms of the effort we are now making is to contribute to stability and to the fight against Daish and also, as a side effect of the presence, to balance the Iranian groupings but also to ensure that Iraq as a whole can achieve better development. It is also about being able to point the finger at abuse that is taking place, as we have done. With regard to various issues of self-government, this is not something that we have taken a position on in the way that the honourable Member asks, so I will leave it without any more in-depth comments today. What is our focus now is that it is important that we get a decision in the Riksdag to approve the bill. There's a deal.
i-e8e40301e832376e-241	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Secretary of Defense responds in the way he does. At the same time, it is a fact that self-government would contribute to greater security and stability, precisely what we want to achieve through our efforts. As a matter of fact, a decision on self-government for the Nineveh region was taken by the Iraqi Government in 2014. It is within the framework of the Iraqi Constitution. What happened after that decision was made was that the Islamic State attacked, and the implementation of the decision was postponed to the future. There is constitutional support for such a decision. But international pressure and active work are needed to implement the decision. There I am convinced that Sweden could make a great contribution by using the influence that we have. This concerns the good relations that Sweden has bilaterally with Iraq, the great Swedish aid to Iraq and our willingness to participate in the international coalition against IS. Sweden and the Swedish Government have an opportunity to use their influence by pressing the Iraqi Government on this issue. There is a reason for this, namely that it would lead to greater security in the northern parts of Iraq and for the populations that were so tragically exposed to the genocide in 2014.
i-e8e40301e832376e-245	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Mr Adaktusson has good intentions with what he is presenting to the House. We are prepared to work in the ways we have indicated in the bill and also in the humanitarian aspects of civilian aid for stability in the region. That's the whole purpose of the whole thing. As far as the specific issue is concerned, I do not have any further comments beyond what I said in my previous speech.
i-e8e40301e832376e-247	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that, from the point of view of different parties, different positions are taken in today's decisions. At the same time, I find it strange, Mr President, to listen to a Minister of Defence who is, in fact, largely arguing against his own proposal. In practice, there is no training effort in place since March. We have three people now, and there will be five people shortly. If you look at the proposal presented today by the Minister for Defence, you can see that it is a resource allocation of SEK 126 million for 70 people or even 220 people at worst if you take an evacuation force. At the same time, today we are taking a rather clear approach to NATO and that is without much clarity in what it means. Here I wonder if the Minister for Defence's idea is that instead of Sweden leaving at some point, they want to join the NATO mission NMI as soon as possible. That's a bit of what you think about when you hear the Minister for Defence in Sweden say: IS is militaryly defeated. You wonder what it means when he still thinks they're still there. Is it possible to stop those people with military action? Can they be stopped by military training? We don't get any real answers to that. If there is no demand for the 70 people, and we are told that there are major changes in Iraq, why is the government presenting the same proposal as it has actually presented in previous years? If there are so great changes that are taking place now, then put forward a proposal, the Minister for Defence, based on the actual conditions. Then write that we want to be at the headquarters and approach NATO. What we are deciding today is something quite different from what you describe in the political debate.
i-e8e40301e832376e-252	Mr President, I would like to You can keep twisting and twisting and distorting things in a debate best you want to make it fit your own purposes. Here we have to take decisions that involve a certain degree of flexibility. We are prepared to go up to 70 people in the normal situation, especially in terms of protection and security and the staff functions that we have. We are prepared to increase up to 70 people. I explained in my speech why they have withdrawn and why they brought home soldiers from Iraq. It was basically two things. It was the attacks, on the one hand, and the covid situation, that made extensive training activities impossible. It is a question of trying to keep the positions and to realise that 10 000 IS terrorists are such a force that they can come back if the international coalition lets go of its grip and walks out. It is clear that this is a problem on which we must take a position. We mean that with this bill we should have the opportunity to go up in staffing if required and that is required. I've described the normal situation. Normal mode is 70 people. But there were extensive changes in the coalition, including with the background of covid. The fact that a transition to a NATO operation is now being discussed is part of the American position in this. The mandate of international law exists. It is not an insidious way into NATO. It is a participation in international work against IS terrorism. That's what it's all about. It is, in fact, what the matter is and nothing else.
i-e8e40301e832376e-258	Mr President, I would like to Parliament's rules are such that the government presents proposals and then the parliament can say yes or no to the proposals that the government presents. But it will be very difficult for the Riksdag to act properly when the Minister of Defence de facto puts forward proposals on things that there is no demand for just because one could want to change in the future. It distorts the debates that we have when we suddenly set aside funds for actions that no one wants and that no one believes will be carried out. It would be better if we had a Minister of Defence who put forward proposals about Sweden's military capability being demanded and counting on the actual reality, not on what was hoped for or what was last year. I think that is a better order than the order to which the Minister for Defence refers right now. I think that in this way a political debate is being held in Sweden about Sweden's military operations and military cooperation, partly for people in the Swedish debate. Sounds like you're holding the line against the terrorists. In practice, however, NATO is getting even closer by saying that we will be part of their efforts in the near future. It would be more honest for the Minister of Defence to use the real arguments, to put forward the real proposals and to be serious about what he says. Now he paints IS terrorists in numbers, power and strength without a strategy for how to face them. I mean that Sweden has a choice to make here. We need to focus on civilian efforts. Many of these terrorists joined the IS cult because they had too little choice. They had bad living conditions. This means that the civilian effort must be stepped up instead of us standing here voting on 70 people who will never go to Iraq.
i-e8e40301e832376e-264	Mr President, I would like to That they will never go to Iraq, Håkan Svenneling knows nothing about. It was completely cut out of the air. What we are doing, on the other hand, is creating a decision with flexibility and an opportunity to increase strength. If we do not use the full amount, that money will, of course, be used for other purposes. I don't see what you're describing as a problem. I see it as a way of constructing a political debate. It is really about you having some sort of basic negative view of everything that NATO is doing. For me and the government, it is not a problem to be part of such an arrangement. It is about the issue of combating terrorism. It's not over. The kind of fanaticism that IS stands for must be able to take seriously in the long term. It is a question of understanding that although we now feel that they are militaryly defeated, they still exist. If we let go of the grip, it'll pop up again. Then it is a threat not only in that region but also in other parts of the world. That is why it must continue, and that is why we must have the flexibility to be able to increase the number of people when necessary.
i-e8e40301e832376e-270	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Defence for participating in these debates. I think a lot of people appreciate it. As I have mentioned earlier today, we are seeing an alarming trend in Iraq where the government, among other things, is approaching the rogue state of Iran. We also see the increase in sectarian violence in many places. Furthermore, we know that the Iraqi Government, with allied militia groups such as al-Shaabi al-Shaabi, has attacked the KRG region. This, of course, is a development which neither I nor the Minister for Defence think is particularly positive. For this reason, I would like to know how he views this and the Swedish role in Iraq. After all, they are taking part in an educational effort for troops who may, in future, be involved in this sectarian violence.
i-e8e40301e832376e-272	Mr President, I would like to I usually have the feeling that I am not speculating much about things that have not yet happened. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has held talks with the Government of Iraq. We have condemned what has been negative towards various groupings in Iraq, and we have addressed it within the framework of the European Union. We have raised it – and there are discussions about it – within the framework of the coalition. We mark the importance of respect for democracy, human rights and freedom of assembly. One of the purposes of our being in this area with both civilian and humanitarian support is to gain an understanding and a knowledge of how to deal with such things. For example, international law is a very important part of the education we are trying to contribute to the Iraqi partners. I have explained in the past what I consider to be the main motivation for us to be there despite all the challenges and difficulties, and that is that we risk opening the way for IS terrorists if the coalition lets go. The side effect of our presence is also that we can limit the way in which the Iranian militias operate, and through sustained commitment we can build up the Iraqi security forces and get the values we think are very important in terms of how international law is constructed. So there is no easy way to go here, and that is precisely why I am prepared to propose this to Parliament.
i-e8e40301e832376e-275	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are, as you know, in favour of an effort in Iraq. Then, of course, we want to direct the support to the KRG region precisely because we know that it is a reliable partner – at least when compared with the Baghdad regime. We also want to ensure that we can support, for example, self-defence troops in the plain of Nineves and try to strengthen those groups in Iraq which today are more exposed than others, such as Yazidians and, above all, Christians. I do not see the point here, especially when you do not have full control of what can happen after training the Baghdad regime's troops. As I said, it is a regime that is closely allied with Iran and which uses Shiamilis who are terribly brutal. I do not really understand how the Minister for Defence thinks there, but it is of course a complex situation. What I wonder is: Can the Minister of Defence think of working in some way to support, for example, self-defence troops in the plain of Nineves or to try to obtain guarantees that the Swedish operation does not contribute to sectarian violence or attacks against Iraq's own population?
i-e8e40301e832376e-278	Mr President, I would like to What we are prepared to work for is what is happening within the framework of the coalition's mandate and the international law mandate on which we are based. There we have no way of going beyond what is the coalition's task. For example, there has been a discussion now about the presence in Erbil, where the base is planned to close at the beginning of next year. So the promise I can give is that we will implement what is within the framework of the bill and within the framework of the coalition's international law mandate. That's it.
i-e8e40301e832376e-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to all those who have taken part in this debate, including the Minister for Defence! I came later than planned to the House, and I apologise for my late arrival. Now in covid times we are not going public transport, and morning traffic from Södertälje towards Stockholm was very difficult. However, traffic is far from a concern in this context, because now we are talking about things that are really difficult. Initially, I would like to thank all those who have done and are making contributions for Sweden's voice and Sweden's willingness to assist in severely affected countries such as Afghanistan and Iraq. Thanks also to all the relatives who make this possible! The starting point for Sweden's commitment, whether Afghanistan or Iraq, is, of course, that we build security together with others – in collaboration and partnership with others. In times of cross-border threats and close links between internal and external security, this becomes all the more important. Sweden's participation in peace-promoting efforts is important for our national security and for our defence capabilities. Sweden shall be a partner of solidarity, credibility and responsibility in international crisis management operations that build security together. Of course, it is obvious to us from the Center Party that we are trying to stand up when someone asks for our contribution. There is a clear mandate in international law, and we 77 countries in the coalition have acted together on this basis. We have been in Iraq since 2014 to combat terrorism but also to build development. As has been said, Sweden is part of the coalition's core force, which consists of more than 30 contributors. We from the Swedish side have also focused on 1325 and on training in humanitarian law to be able to review and follow up what is happening and report on abuse. It is also important for that purpose, Mr President, to have eyes and ears in place. Of course, the effort depends on others. The medical effort is completely vital. What has emerged earlier in the debate is the uncertainty created by the current President of the United States and the outgoing administration's signals of withdrawal. We see, of course, that this can create different development lines in the effort, both in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and therefore we are clear that it is important that the government reports back to the Riksdag – and does so at least once a quarter. If anything significant happens, we expect the government to return to Parliament with information. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved. If I had been here on time, I would have done the same for the report on Afghanistan.
i-e8e40301e832376e-287	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by expressing my warm thanks to all Swedish women and men who have made important efforts in Mali and major efforts for peace and security in both the country and the region. They have our full support and our deep appreciation for the important contribution they have made. I can also say, Mr President, that it is a united committee that supports the decision to send a Swedish armed force of a maximum of 470 soldiers to the UN operation Minusma in Mali. Then we have different views on how the Swedish contribution will develop over time. The operation will consist of a light shooting company and a national support unit which will normally amount to approximately 220 people. It is good if we in this House can find broad political agreements on international action. Soldiers on international missions should always feel the full support of the Riksdag for their efforts, which are taking place in Sweden's name. Mr President, I would like to Mali has been plagued by widespread unrest and conflict in recent years. The security situation has worsened. This is partly about ethnic and political conflicts and partly about the fact that terrorist groups such as Daish and Al-Qaeda in the Maghreb have grown strong in the region. They have also targeted terrorist attacks on soldiers who have been part of Minusma; unfortunately, nearly 200 soldiers have lost their lives. Fortunately, we have not lost any Swedish soldiers, but, Mr President, we must be clear that it is a difficult, demanding and dangerous mission to which we intend to send Swedish soldiers. The conflict in Mali has destabilised the entire Sahel region and has also contributed to large-scale refugee flows and great humanitarian suffering. Sweden shall contribute to efforts to promote international peace and security. But, of course, we also have a central interest in preventing terrorist organisations such as Daish and Al-Qaeda from taking root and growing strong in a country like Mali. Sooner or later, these terrorists and their terrible atrocities will unfortunately also be able to reach both Europe and Sweden. An important reason why we chose to increase military engagement in Mali was also to show support for France after the terrorist attacks in Paris, including at Bataclan. France also requested European solidarity in line with Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. Mr President, I would like to France is an important strategic partner of Sweden, especially in the field of security and defence. Sometimes we have different views on how European security policy should be developed. But we also have very close and effective military cooperation with France in international efforts, especially in Africa. France has a unique competence in terms of knowledge of Africa, especially Western Africa. There is also deep mutual respect between our defence forces for the know-how and professionalism they both possess. This excellent military cooperation between Sweden and France has been demonstrated both in Congo and Chad, and we will continue to do so in Mali. Next year, Sweden will send a helicopter-borne rapid reaction force consisting of special units to participate in the French-led Task Force Takuba operation. The operation shall combat terrorist groups active in South-East Mali but shall also train and train the Malian security forces. The Task Force Takuba will also make an important contribution to stabilising and improving the security situation of the soldiers involved in the Minusma operation. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had military personnel in place in Mali for almost eight years, and we take a growing responsibility in three operations. It is about the UN-led operation Minusma, and we are also participating in the EU's EUTM training operation and will soon participate in Task Force Takuba – all in good faith to improve the security situation in the country and the region as a whole. It is now also a Swedish general, Dennis Gyllensporre, who is the head of the entire Minusma operation. The operations in Mali have strengthened the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities, which also benefit the national mission. We have learned international collaboration, and the individual soldier has gained important operational experience by working hard in the field. At the same time, international efforts must be increasingly balanced against the increased need for domestic staff. The Swedish Armed Forces have returned to this in their budget documents and long-term planning documents. The defence decision to be taken in this House on 15 December will mean increased efforts on national defence. This is both good and absolutely necessary. We will see the military forces grow, and the war organization will be expanded. This means that there must be staff at home in Sweden who can take responsibility for the upcoming training rounds. Unfortunately, for several years, there has been a shortage of officers, especially educational officers. The demand for training officers will increase with the forthcoming defence decision. The Moderates therefore want the government, together with the Swedish Armed Forces and other relevant authorities, to develop a long-term exit strategy for the Swedish Minus Main movement in Mali. This should, of course, take account of developments in the security situation and in close dialogue with our partners in Mali. Finally, I would like to point out that the international efforts will continue to be an important part of Swedish security and defence policy. This is an advanced line of defence that not only creates security and stability in the countries in which we operate, but also ultimately strengthens Sweden's security. But in the coming years we will have limited resources in view of the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces will now grow very quickly. With this, Mr President, I would like to say that the Moderates are in favour of the bill but are in favour of reservation number 1, which we have written together with the Christian Democrats and the Liberals.
i-e8e40301e832376e-304	Mr President, I would like to It is six years since the first Swedish soldiers arrived in Mali and the future camp outside Timbuktu. Over the years since then, our soldiers and officers have made significant efforts for peace, stability and security in Mali. The focus of the force has changed over the years, but our soldiers and officers have once again demonstrated the high standard that Swedish units are known to maintain. The military coup this year has made the situation in Mali much more complex than when we last stood in this Chamber and debated this effort. At present, the political situation in the country is characterised by a transition to elected government, and it is to be hoped that developments will move in a positive, democratic direction. Our armed forces, through their presence, can contribute to stability during the transitional period. What has unfortunately not changed since last year's debate is that Mali is still one of the world's absolutely poorest countries. This means that humanitarian needs in Mali and the Sahel region continue to be high. The region is affected by both armed conflicts and a deterioration of the environment and a change in the climate. According to the UN, approximately 6.8 million people in Mali are in need of humanitarian aid. Malnutrition is widespread, and the need for sanitation and clean water is great. In addition, 3.1 million people are estimated to need food security. Sweden has not only made important efforts with military troops in Mali. We have also contributed in the civil field – an area that is easily forgotten in these debates but which is crucial to saving lives. In the previous year, Sweden through Sida was one of the largest bilateral donors to Mali, with humanitarian aid of 97.2 million SEK. In addition, Sweden provided humanitarian support through the UN Emergency Fund and the UN Food Programme. As the need for humanitarian aid remains high in Mali, we believe that Sweden should increase its humanitarian aid to the country and its population. This support can mean the difference between life and death for many people. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish contribution to Minusma is proposed for next year to continue to be a light shooting company. The unit also includes a national support unit containing, among other things, medical capabilities and personnel for the operation and maintenance of national infrastructure and equipment. As I mentioned earlier, the Swedish Armed Forces and their personnel have done excellent work in Mali and contributed to the effort in an exemplary way. However, the development of security policy in Sweden's immediate neighbourhood means that the Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden now needs to focus on the reconstruction of our own defence, and we therefore need to set a longer deadline for our military engagement in Mali. All of our talented women and men are needed for the reconstruction of our national defence, as there is a shortage of officers, among other things. We also see it as self-evident that participation in international efforts should always be voluntary for those who are employed by the Swedish Armed Forces. We therefore propose that the Swedish armed force of the United Nations stabilisation operation in Mali be dismantled and that the decommissioning be completed by 31 December 2021. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 2.
i-e8e40301e832376e-313	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, even though we as a party otherwise support the whole of the committee's proposal. The part of the world where Islamism and jihadism are growing fastest is Africa and the Sahel region. The consequences of this are obvious. Last week, Boko Haram murdered 110 farmers in northeastern Nigeria – most of the victims had their throats cut. In May, 27 people were executed in a number of Islamic attacks against three villages in central Mali, villages predominantly inhabited by Christians. In March, nearly 100 local soldiers in Chad were killed in one of Boko Haram's most deadly attacks in the history of the country. The international work against jihadist terror is far from over. In West and Central Africa, it is literally a struggle for survival. Extreme groups associated with IS and Al-Qaida operate in the area with the aim of creating chaos and fueling ethnic contradictions. Since 2016, the number of terrorist attacks carried out in Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger has been fivefold. Churches are burned, schools are forced to close and hundreds of thousands of people live in constant terror. In Mali, Islamist violence took the lives of 4 000 people only in 2019. Mr President, I would like to When human dignity is crushed and when the future of children and families is shattered, indifference must not be our answer. As Christian Democrats, we are proud of Sweden's international efforts. This applies, in particular, to the UN stabilisation operation Minusma. Mali is one of the world's poorest countries, deeply affected by security, political, economic and humanitarian problems. In these very difficult circumstances, men and women in the Swedish Armed Forces make outstanding efforts – with courage, competence and ability, they contribute to a safer life and a better life. Risking one's own safety to protect vulnerable people is worth the greatest respect and appreciation. Warm thanks to all of you who have participated or are currently participating in the Swedish operation in Mali! For the Christian Democrats it is obvious that we from the Swedish side should take our share of responsibility in a troubled and unstable world. We therefore support the Government's proposal to make an armed force available in Mali, which could be increased to 470 people, even in 2021. The overall objective of the operation is to implement MINUSMA's mandate and thus contribute to improving the security of the civilian population. We are all aware in this House that the Swedish contribution to strength is facing a complex mission. At the same time, we know that the Swedish soldiers' ability is internationally acknowledged and appreciated. The Swedish Armed Forces affirm that the Swedish unit has the necessary conditions, including protection for its own safety. Mr President, I would like to Minusma is a stabilisation operation. Following the military coup that took place in September and during the delicate transition to civilian rule that is now under way, the need for the operation is indisputable. At the same time, it is clear that the Swedish contribution cannot last indefinitely – responsibility must be shared by more countries. A strategy is therefore needed to phase out the Swedish effort in the long term. A phasing-out should, of course, take account of the pace allowed by the security situation and with respect for both the people of Mali and the countries with which we cooperate within Minusma. As a member of the Riksdag, it feels responsible to be involved in making decisions about Swedish participation in military operations. But just as important as it is to combat extremism and terror in our country and in our part of the world, it is to conduct the fight in countries far away. Any safe harbour for Islamism or jihadism, wherever it is, is by extension a threat to our democracy and our security. Through the operation in Mali, Sweden and other countries are actively involved in the international fight against terrorism, with the aim of enabling more people to live in security and peace.
i-e8e40301e832376e-324	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking those from Sweden who serve in Mali, who have served there before and who will serve there, as well as their relatives, for this is an extremely important effort. It is an effort that means that we take responsibility for human rights, democracy, stability and security in Mali and in other parts of the world, including Sweden, where terrorism and extremism could have spread if they had grown stronger. I would also like to thank you for the professionalism shown time and again by our Swedish troops and our Swedish staff on the ground and for the clear support that exists from the Swedish Parliament. It's very important, I think. Mr President, I would like to Mali is a country ravaged by brutal terrorism, senseless violence and widespread poverty. In such a situation, we, as fellow human beings, have a responsibility to terrorism and Islamist extremism. Faced with the senseless violence, we are not Swedes, liberals, social democrats or for that matter Solnabor, but in the face of these threats we are human beings. We, as humans, have a shared responsibility for other people in the world, wherever they may be. Against this background, we support the Government's proposal to make Swedish soldiers available and to participate actively both in this effort and in other efforts where we can meet the requirement that we humans have on each other – to stand up for each other and fight senseless violence, extremism and terrorism wherever it shows its ugly face. When you have a shared responsibility for something, it will also be important to think about which parts we have responsibility for. We are doing this together with people from other countries – governments of other countries, parliaments of other countries and soldiers and staff of other countries. It is for this reason, that is, that we need to consider where our responsibility begins and ends and in which parts that Sweden can best contribute to the international efforts, in which we in the Liberals support the reservation that requires us to have an exit strategy in place. We will investigate and think about how such a person could see and what it would mean. It is also for this reason that we oppose the Swedish Democrats' reservation, which makes it very clear and even though we do not know the future conditions set a sharp date for exit. I believe that when we, as democrats, stand together with other countries to safeguard security, security and stability, that is, the values I have talked about, it is also responsible to have an exit strategy. We will consider what we contribute to this effort and what we may be able to contribute better to other efforts in Mali. We shall look at the whole picture and consider how, in an orderly manner, with respect for the people who live in Mali, with respect for the countries with which we participate and with respect for the fact that there are several commitments at the same time in the same country, we can have an exit plan. It would be irresponsible to just shoot from the hip and hip like hips indicate a date when we're leaving Mali. The responsibility is to look at the situation, to see what needs there are, to see how we can contribute in the whole together with others and at the same time to take responsibility for the existence of a proper plan. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to emphasise the importance of Sweden's participation, the importance of our participation in a responsible way and the importance of seeing to the whole when we from Sweden are out in the world to combat extremism and terrorism and to build stability, peace and security. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-e8e40301e832376e-334	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Swedish participation in the UN operation in Mali, a country without coast in western Africa and one of the world's poorest countries. It is also a very dangerous place with ongoing conflicts between different groups, terrorism and illicit trafficking in arms, drugs and people. As a consequence of the serious security situation, more than 1 000 schools have been closed. This, I believe, has very serious and long-term consequences for the population. That is why we are having a very urgent and important debate in this House today. It is about us sending Swedish men and women to this dangerous place to help stabilise the situation in Mali and thus contribute to peace and security in the world. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a diverse commitment to Mali, and the Swedish contribution to the UN operation Minusma is part of this. I myself had the opportunity to visit the Swedish camps in Bamako and Timbuktu a year ago. The Swedes I met in the efforts made me proud and full of respect. They are well trained for their tasks and show a great knowledge and understanding of geography, politics, cultures, different religions and conflicts in the area. In conversations with other people, non-Swedish, on the spot I felt almost even more proud of our staff. Everyone spoke with great respect about Sweden's contribution as highly qualified and very important for Mali's security. It felt urgent for me as a decision-maker to visit the effort personally, and I am grateful that I received that privilege. Sweden's contribution is relocated and has received new information. The Swedish contribution consists of a shooting company stationed in Gao in the eastern sector of Minusma. The Swedish unit also includes a support unit for logistics and with healthcare capabilities, among other things. As a legal basis for the operation, there is an invitation to the UN by the Government of Mali. This invitation remains valid, even after the military coup that took place earlier this year. The total strength for next year shall consist of a maximum of 220 persons. If there is a need for rapid reinforcement in the event of a deterioration in the security situation, the staff shall be able to increase to 470 persons. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say something about the overall purpose of Swedish participation in international crisis management. The starting point for Sweden's commitment is that security is best built in collaboration and in partnership with others. Sweden's participation in peacekeeping operations is also important for our national security and defence capabilities. It is therefore important that Sweden is a partner of solidarity, credibility and responsibility in international efforts. It is here in Parliament that we are directing our participation in international efforts, and we will now decide to extend the operation in Mali by one year. Sending Swedish troops on missions abroad is a decision that entails a significant responsibility. I therefore share Pål Jonson's introductory words about the importance of unity in Parliament and that it is an important signal for those we send out. Tragic experience shows that the loss of human life in the context of peace-promoting missions cannot be excluded. On the basis of the uncertain developments in Mali, the situation needs to be analysed on an ongoing basis. From the committees, we therefore welcome the government's readiness to report back to us regularly. Mr President, I would like to I feel great humility in the face of the brave men and women who make this effort possible. I also feel strongly about their relatives. Of course, it is a great concern to be at home when one's partner, parent or child travels to a dangerous place. Thus, in these times when we are approaching Christmas, we consider a little extra the price paid by our senders, both in terms of the risks and the personal sacrifice of being far from their loved ones. I saw a few days ago how the Mali Force gathered in Bamako to see together the Swedish Christmas Calendar. It keeps tradition alive and brings together the family and children at home. Because of the coronapander this year, it will be a different Christmas for many of us. But when we resent the fact that we cannot have a major Christmas celebration or travel to our relatives, we should at the same time give a thought to our 500 miles [500 km] away from home. They work under stressful conditions to support some of the world's poorest and most vulnerable people. Many thanks to you Swedes who stand up for peace, security and a better world. We would like to address a greeting to those of you who are now present in Mali and to all of you who have served in Mali in previous years and in other unsafe places in the world. You are making great sacrifices and important contributions. You make a difference, and you make us very proud. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-e8e40301e832376e-351	Mr President, I would like to The stabilisation effort in Mali is important. Mali is a country in a region severely affected by terrorism. There is cooperation between different groups, sometimes changing names, throughout the Sahel region, Iraq and Afghanistan. They often take advantage of each other's efforts in the field of terrorism, and that cooperation must be met by cooperation in the fight against terrorism. Sweden was asked by the UN to participate in the operation. We have been involved in the operation since 2014. It was the first UN-led operation in a long time. We thought then – and we think now – that it was important for Sweden to stand up. We have done this with resources that have strengthened the UN's ability to act forcefully in Mali. Mali is one of the most dangerous countries to work in with most of the victims of UN operations. But we have strengthened the effort with our presence. Of course, it is visible and clear that our Swedish Lieutenant General Dennis Gyllensporre is leading Minusma in Mali, and he has been doing so for some time. In this bet there are approximately 220 people in place. There may be more if necessary. But they're part of a bigger effort. Here too, many countries, not least from the region and the surrounding environment, participate. That's about 15,000, and of them we're 220. Other countries have done what we have done, that is to say, heeding the UN request. If countries do not do so, we cannot accuse the UN of failing to pursue its efforts. Sweden started in Timbuktu and is now in Gao. We're working with Germany. It is interesting, Mr President, that at this time also take note of the digital diary that the Malian operation is doing. We could see when Mali 12 handed over to Mali 13 and heard the outgoing leader say that without courage, pragmatism, innovative soldiers and officers with a strong will to push their business forward, they would not be there today. They have the ability to solve most things only they are given the opportunity to do so. The possibilities for this are given in a decision in the Riksdag today to give the operation a mandate forward. That is the mandate we in the Center Party want to give. We support the report in that part. Mr President, I would like to There has been a closer examination because the conditions have changed since the military coup in Mali. We take a military coup very seriously and do not accept it. It is therefore important to move towards civilian rule. We will closely monitor the implementation of the agreement reached in the region. In particular, the committee has drilled a little deeper into whether the conditions have changed after the military coup. In the written information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs referred to in the report, we have received evidence to conclude that the mandate of international law has not changed. We are therefore satisfied. As in the previous reports we have discussed, we have also focused on and highlighted what we often demand, namely Resolution 1325, that our Swedish women and men who participate in the efforts are the eyes and ears of humanitarian law and to ensure that there is no abuse. We are always trying to follow that up on reports from the Departments and the Armed Forces. Rereporting is an important experience in order to learn from Sweden's contributions in international efforts and to learn lessons when Sweden is part of a UN operation, which is unusual. We welcome back reports to the Riksdag from the Government and the Swedish Armed Forces, as in the case of Iraq and Afghanistan, at least once a quarter. With this, I would like, as my colleagues have done in the past and also later, to thank all the women and men who have done and who make our efforts possible, for building stability and conditions for peace and development in Mali. Thank you and thank you to all your relatives. It is a dangerous mission, one of the most dangerous that can be accomplished, and we are grateful that you want to carry out the mission on our behalf and be a voice for Sweden in Mali. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-e8e40301e832376e-363	Mr President, I would like to Hello to all of you sitting at home watching. Today, we are debating and deciding on Sweden's military operation in Mali, that is, the UN stabilisation operation Minusma. Recently, the thirteenth Swedish group took over the baton in Sweden's operation in Mali. Since we last discussed the UN operation, Sweden's large camp, Camp Nobel, has been dismantled and our Swedish soldiers moved from Timbuktu to Gao to the new Camp Estelle. There are now a large number of Swedish soldiers who have been present in Mali. This year, of course, the changes in the UN operation have been particularly difficult in view of the pandemic and the long quarantine periods it has involved. I would, of course, also like to start by expressing a great deal of thanks to all those who have been part of the effort and all those who have just recently begun their mission there. You who participate make great sacrifices. You are away for a long time from your families and friends here at home, and you are taking part in a work that involves great risks. The family members who remain at home and wait with a great feeling of concern are also worthy of our gratitude and our support for making everyday life at home work as well as possible in the meantime. Mr President, I would like to The bill presented by the government describes the background to Sweden's operation in Mali, and we get a description of the security situation in the country. It can be read that Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world and that there has been armed conflict for a long time. There are major problems with drug and arms trafficking, kidnappings and terrorism. The security situation in Mali has been commuting back and forth in recent years. A peace agreement has been signed but then broken. Unfortunately, over the past year, developments have deteriorated even worse with a new coup d'état and subsequent uncertainties. Conflicts are rooted, among other things, in major climate change in the country. Reduced rainfall and drought have forced people to leave their homes with increased poverty and vulnerability. Here we see how important it is to see climate change and natural disasters as security policy threats and as a basis for war and conflict. Combating climate change is therefore working towards a safer and more peaceful world. In contrast, we live in one of the world's most peaceful, safest and richest countries. It is therefore self-evident that Sweden will participate in international efforts to promote peace, democracy, security and development in the world. We do this in different ways, especially with assistance and with various forms of expertise to build democratic societies and institutions, but also with military forces to preserve security and protect the civilian population. It is important that we always see the root causes of wars and conflicts and actively participate in working internationally to prevent conflicts from arising. Sweden's various forms of aid work are preventive work to avoid war and suffering for civilians around the world. Mr President, I would like to About a year and a half ago, I was one of the four members of the Defence Committee who had the opportunity to visit Sweden's camp outside Timbuktu. We visited the tenth Swedish group on site in Mali. During three intensive days we were able to take part in the work that is being done within Sweden's efforts. By visiting the soldiers on site, we gained a much greater understanding of how work and life are during an international effort. It was a great experience to be present for a few days. We also learned how the cooperation in the UN operation works – often very well but also with major challenges. We understand that it means very hard and time-consuming work for the Swedish Armed Forces to participate in major international efforts. We know that re-prioritising the work is a priority, but it is an important priority to participate in the work of the UN around the world. For the Left Party, it is incredibly important that Sweden's military operations take place under the leadership of the UN with clear support in international law rather than being led by NATO or by individual countries. Of course, respect for international law must always be included in the groundwork. In this case, the operation is based on an invitation from the Malian Government and a large number of UN decisions and resolutions. This is a prerequisite for the Left Party to support international efforts. However, although we are a great supporter of the UN's work for peace and development, we must recognise that the UN has shortcomings. The UN needs to be democratised and become more effective, better and more equal. Sweden has a prominent role in the various parts of the UN's work for development and improvement. It is part of our solidarity efforts towards peaceful and democratic development in the world. Finally, I would like to thank the Government for the fact that the proposal so clearly addresses Sweden's efforts to promote women's participation on the basis of UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security and for having such a strong focus on this in our international work. The fact that Sweden has a feminist foreign policy is important to us in the Left Party. We will be an international example in our gender equality work. It should also be mentioned that Sweden is a major donor to Mali and that we actively participate with a large amount of humanitarian support to the many millions of people who live in very difficult conditions. We in Sweden will do what we can to support the work for peace, democracy and development in Mali and in neighbouring countries so that the people of Mali will live in freedom, peace and democracy together in the future. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-e8e40301e832376e-380	Mr President, I would like to The Sahel region is one of the places in the world where tensions are increasing and the level of conflict is at risk of escalating with great human suffering as a direct consequence. It is an unstable region with weak democracies, which raises concerns and poses a great risk of armed conflict. Together with others, Sweden has a commitment in the region and especially in Mali, where in recent years there has been a real risk that the conflict will flare up and severely affect even more civilians. Mr President, I would like to There is a clear mandate in international law for the current operation in Mali, and Swedish participation responds to a direct request from the UN. In addition to the mandate of the UN Security Council, there is also an invitation from the Malian Government. The protection and respect of international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law, is central. The continued Swedish contribution to the effort that we are debating here today is part of a large and broad commitment that Sweden has in Mali. We are doing the minus-maintenance together with others, and by extending it we are continuing the work that has been actively pursued in recent years with a view to long-term peace and security. The Government's objective of the operation is clear: we will be involved in Minusma's operation and contribute to improved security in Mali and to the return of control of its territory by the Malian Government. This will enable long-term sustainable policy solutions to be put in place in the country. It is also likely that an improved situation in Mali would have a positive impact on security, development and human rights throughout the Sahel region. In addition to the military effort that today's decision is about, Sweden has a strategy that involves extensive humanitarian support and bilateral development cooperation. Sweden is one of the largest bilateral donors to Mali with humanitarian aid via Sida. This means that we are involved in creating the conditions for the long-term humanitarian work that must be in place to secure people's lives but also to build a democratic society with functioning institutions. The actions can be divided into three main categories: Strengthening democracy and gender equality and respect for human rights 中 human security and freedom from violence and improvement of the environment 中 limited climate impact and enhanced resilience to environmental impacts, climate change and natural disasters. Mali is a hard-tried country. With women and children as the specifically identified target group, the efforts are a security that creates the conditions for achieving long-term peace. The support that Sweden provides through Sida goes to several and broad initiatives. It is about efforts against hunger, food assistance, water and sanitation and work for both protection and education. Several UN agencies are in place in the region, and through the International Committee of the Red Cross and other international organisations this is being made a reality. In addition, experts are made available through the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. Cooperation and cooperation are important key words for success. Mr President, I would like to No actor on its own can create long-term sustainable peace. Nor can individual international institutions themselves stand for all the elements that need to be put in place in order to put an end to the human suffering that is constantly present in Mali. Everyone needs to do their part, and everyone needs to work together. Here, too, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of you who make a daily contribution to peace and security in the world. Without you, nothing would have been achieved. You do so many times with your own life as a contribution, and for that you deserve the respect and thanks of this House and of the entire Swedish people. I support the proposal.
i-Ndqh3WWpCjTtjEyucRbpY4	Mr President, I would like to What we are now calling for from the government is 220 soldiers under normal circumstances and a maximum of 470 soldiers. The cost is SEK 445 million. The term of office is from 1 January to 31 December 2021. It is a light shooting company and staff officer at the relevant staff, both at the Bamako Force Headquarters and at the Gao Sector Headquarters. The mission is to conduct patrols with a view to upholding the mandate of the Security Council in accordance with Resolution 2531; the international law basis is this Security Council Resolution. During the year, Sweden's contribution in Minusma has entered a new phase. We have completed our presence in Timbuktu and transferred the business to Gao. We have been in Mali for many years. We initially contributed with an intelligence unit that provided the UN system with new skills and new resources; one could say that it was a unique ability that was added to the UN system. Let's get on with a light shooting company. It was in 2014 that the first soldiers and officers came to Timbuktu to build the infrastructure. In spring 2015, the first intelligence unit, Mali 01, arrived from K3. The work that has been going on during the spring and summer has included building conditions and infrastructure for our involvement in Gao. The new camp that was established is called Camp Estelle. The Swedish camp is part of the German camp. We cooperate very closely with Germany, and we have very good experience of that cooperation. Now it is being prepared to receive, among other things, a British contribution to Minusma – a reconnaissance unit of about 250 people. The fact that there are now three major European troops in Minusma and Gao brings benefits for Swedish engagement both operationally on the ground, strategically at the capital level and in the UN-scraper in New York. The situation we have in Mali is serious, with religious fanaticism, trafficking, smuggling, terrorism and crime of the most diverse kinds. In the area there are also violent terrorist groups belonging to Al-Qaida and Daish. On 18 August, a coup d'état was carried out which immediately led to the swift return of Ecowas, the West African Co-operation Organisation, to civil leadership and control in the country. We are now in a transitional period, and there will be general elections within 18 months. There must be no failure on the part of the transitional regime. Covid is, of course, a major problem. A weak state, low state presence and poor health care create major problems for the population and for the ability to counter covid. The UN is making efforts to prevent further proliferation of covids. On 30 November, the terrorist groups demonstrated their ability to strike at the international presence of troops in Mali. A coordinated attack on Kidal, M é naka and Gao was carried out early in the morning with firing with indirect fire. No deaths have been reported in connection with these attacks, but what this shows is the importance of Swedish and international presence. We make a difference through our presence. We participate in the EU training effort, we participate in Minusma and we participate in Task Force Takuba; at the beginning of next year our troops will be delivered. At the same time, we are a major and important aid player in the region. The contribution described in the bill is included in something called Force Adaptation Plan. It is a concept developed by the Swedish Military Power Manager in Minusma, Lieutenant General Gyllensporre. The concept aims to have a number of flexible, high-capacity, high-fire power units that are directly under the command of the Force Commander in order to be readily available to carry out operations if you see this as necessary. Central to carrying out operations, which has been raised in this House in the past on numerous occasions, is the availability of helicopter-borne evacuation and medical facilities. Now they have a civilian contractor hired by the UN on site in Gao to carry out helicopter-borne evacuation. Germany has taken an initiative to contract three helicopters, one of which is fully equipped and manned for Medevac capability. The other two helicopters can be used for logistics transport and evacuation of injured persons. This, together with the in-depth healthcare components of the Swedish grant, means that health care preparedness is good if something happens. This is also very important for the implementation of the mandate, because the possibility of health care and helicopter transport is crucial for what operational radius a unit can have and for what type of operations one can set up. When we conduct this debate, when we have the training mission, when we have the Minusma and when we have our upcoming contribution to Takuba, it is also a demonstration of the long-term and seriosity of Swedish support and the seriousness that we are not the country that is going away in the first place. This is an area that is fragile, and what is happening there has a direct impact on the situation in Europe. If there are no countries that are prepared to be there and take responsibility, there is a great risk that there can be various types of terrorist acts or other events in Europe, in our neighbourhood or even in Sweden that are of a very negative kind. We must also demonstrate to the credibility of our relations with our partners that we are there long-term and serious. Of course, we will evaluate our commitment on a regular basis, and we will do so in connection with decisions that we have taken to extend the effort. But here today, when we are about to extend the stake, there are on some hands as some sort of main theme that we should have a strategy to withdraw. It can be perceived as a signal effect that becomes incorrect. Of course, we should be prepared to step out of an operation-- there's not two things to talk about--but we're there to solve a problem. It must be situational if you withdraw or not. By situationalisation, I mean the reality of terrorism, crime, human rights violations and the misery of any kind that can reproduce to our continent. It is also a European interest and a national interest for Sweden that the situation in Mali develops well. I just want it said. I would also like to mark once again – I have done so also in the previous debates – that there is a strategic importance of our participation in international efforts. This is not in opposition to building a national defence. Participation in international efforts is also evidence that we are a trusted and willing country to contribute. This creates better conditions for us to receive funding in our neighbourhood when it comes to the problems we experience. If you're going to cooperate for real, it's a giving and a taking in a deeper sense. You build the security puzzle together. I was there when we started discussions about moving away from an intervention defence with a main focus on international operations, and I was at the forefront of the debate on national defence. I know what the resistance was back then, and I won't go into it any deeper. But it cannot be either or; it is both and it is about. We live in a world where we have to interact with others in order to build a security puzzle that really holds. National defence-yes. There we have been at the forefront of our party, and that is something that the government is deeply behind, including the activation of military service. But we should not, as soon as we discuss an international effort, raise the perspective of how quickly we can get away from it. It should be adapted to international needs, and Sweden should be a contributor to trust. The first thing you say shouldn't be, how are we gonna get out of this? It is also about solidarity, balance, stability and long-term seriality. We've done a good long-term job in Mali. Now we are faced with a new important decision. Then we will see how the future develops, and then we will have to make the necessary decisions. We should be prepared to make changes in our international efforts, but we must have a flexible approach when discussing them. Finally, I would like to thank all those who take part in efforts and have done a good job, do so now and will do so in the future.
i-e8e40301e832376e-415	Madam President, I would like I referred to a joint reservation between L, KD and M in my speech. It's reservation number one and nothing else. I would like to put on record that the Moderates are therefore behind reservation 1.
i-e8e40301e832376e-416	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that the Minister of Defence has been sitting here during the three previous debates, but when it comes to discussing the economy he chooses to give priority to other tasks. Madam President, I would like When you read the report, it is quite easy to believe that there is a great deal of agreement on the defence economy. I'd say it couldn't be more wrong. In order to give a brief background to what has led up to today's economy and the decisions we are taking today and will also take the next week, with us clubs' defence decision, a parliamentary group has been analysing, preparing and putting forward proposals that it believes are closely linked. This was done in broad agreement until the document was signed. Then the Secretary of Defense came in and said, "I don't think we can sign it as it is." We need an option to save more. It costs too much. As a result, several parties did not sign the Defence Committee's proposal, which was fundamentally supported by this note, which was submitted by the Minister for Defence. At that time, the Secretary of Defense announced that the negotiations would resume. New talks were going on at around 50 meetings where nothing new came to light, whereupon the negotiations crashed, or maybe I shouldn't say because it was the Minister of Defence who chose not to continue the talks. Somewhere there we stand today and have two new blocs in the defence policy. On one side we have the red-green parties who do not want to pay or simply do not want to tell us whether they want to complete the Defence Committee's report and implement the defence decision that has been prepared. Perhaps it is best manifested by Left draconian cuts of SEK 75 billion. But my picture is that even the Green Party could be interested in having a similar saving line in terms of defence, if the party had not been the basis of government. On the other side are the four bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, all of whom are reasonably agreed that Sweden should do as the NATO countries and move towards the goal of 2 per cent of our gross domestic product being dedicated to the defence. Since we are a country that has no alliance, a country with a large area and a long coast, and which is basically very sparsely populated, we cannot be the country that chooses to save on defence. Madam President, I would like It takes time to build military capabilities. Training a captain basically takes as long as training a doctor. It is therefore important that the long-term perspectives are also included in the planning of the Swedish Armed Forces. It also takes time to acquire supplies, train soldiers, and train units for their duties. Therefore, these activities are largely different from other activities that we here in Parliament are discussing. When we take defence decisions in Sweden, we have a tradition of making them burdensome, that is to say that heavy financial costs are put late in the defence decision, and also to under-finance them. That means we're saying, you're supposed to do these things, but you're not getting paid for everything. That's why there's a big debt in the defense that we need to take back. Although there are now large increases in the means of defence, the ambitions we are talking about are not necessarily those for which we are paying. We can already see many regiments that have an ambition to set up units in accordance with what was planned in the Defence Committee, but they have been told that this is not the case. In the newspapers we have also been able to read that the funds available may be further eroded already in the first months of the first period of the defence decision. When money disappears in increased costs, this means that other parts will have to be deducted. That is the problem with this defence economy, which is based on a defence preparation that needs all its elements. The activities to be created in ten years' time need to start being planned already today. If we don't start planning and procurement today, we won't have the units when we want them. Unfortunately, Madam President, there is a great risk that even before we have put the defence decision in place, we can see that it is another underfunded defence decision. The Moderates believe that it is of great importance that the whole of the Defence Committee's proposal is taken into account and implemented. If some are removed, the ability, protection and endurance of the entire organization will be reduced. The whole of the Defense Committee's proposal is stronger than the sum of its parts. That is why we Moderates want to see an increase of EUR 5 billion in funding by 2026 and an additional EUR 5 billion for 2027. This would mean another SEK 45 billion during the period 2026 – 2030. Madam President, I would like There are also other elements in our budget report where we have additional contributions, including to the FRA. The FRA has a business that is important both for our intelligence operations and for our cyber security. We propose an increase of 30 million from next year in the budget for the Defence Radio Institute. The FRA is also central to the new cybersecurity centre to be set up. The Moderates point out that it is important for the whole country's cybersecurity that a center be formed. However, it is problematic that this has not come about in the way we would have liked. We believe that it is because the government has been unclear about giving information about the Centre's head office, has not provided enough resources and has not dared to take the leadership on this issue. We believe that the FRA should be given the responsibility to lead the Centre as the authority with the greatest expertise in cyber security. That is why we are also providing an increased grant in a first step to be used for FRA's cybersecurity work. Madam President, I would like The Coast Guard is also hard hit. The Moderates propose an increase of EUR 30 million from 2021 onwards in the allocation 2:1 Coast Guard. The Coast Guard carries out many important tasks, including border protection, environmental surveillance, sea rescue, law enforcement and, not least, participation in international operations. The latter part has meant that large costs have come to bear on the operation, and we therefore want to provide resources to ensure both that the Coast Guard can work with Frontex and build up civilian preparedness. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, I'll say a few words about Jas Gripen. Jas Gripen is basically a very successful industrial programme, which today forms the basis of many air forces worldwide. In the budget report there is a proposal to authorise the government to decide alone on the export of existing Jas C/ D. We believe that this is a task for the Riksdag if nothing else is decided, and we do not see why we elected representatives in the Riksdag should deprive us of the opportunity to decide on the sale of this important material. If the government needs to sell, you can ask the Riksdag for an authorisation. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-e8e40301e832376e-440	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have a budget that exceeds the framework we have to deal with. The conclusion we draw from this is that we cannot call for approval of our levels, and we will therefore abstain from the claims and refer instead to our specific opinion. Of course, we support our motions, but we do not support anything in this paragraph. The overall objective of our policy is to create a total defence that can once again defend the whole country against a qualified enemy or opponent – in this paragraph it is the same. We therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance that the will for defence be strengthened and that peoples should be strongly attached to it. One part of this is to have a large proportion of conscripts. They will amount to 8 000 per year in 2025, and we want to continue to do so. In the long term, we also want to strengthen the defence by entering into a defence alliance with Finland. A more detailed debate on this will be held next Monday when the Riksdag discusses the total defence, i.e. both the military and the civilian sections. The defense committee has produced two reports: Resistance, about Civil Defense, and Värnkraft, about military defence. We are fully behind them and have signed them. Through our funding, which we cannot support, we add 1.4 billion more than the Government in 2021, for example. We're spending 300 million more on civilian defense. Next Monday there will be more on this in detail. But now we're all clear on the dimension. We are continuing up to 2% of GDP, as we said the previous period, and with our budget we will reach it in 2030. It shall then be statutory in such a way that, during an average term of office, it may not be less than this 2%. We go to bed in four years so that no government will go under this and push the problem to a possible new government. Madam President, I would like Another big news we are so far alone about, but it will certainly change. It is a question of presenting three-year budgets. Military and civil defence need greater freedom of action, which is why we want them to be allowed to move funds between 2021, 2022 and 2023. They do not have to return money that they do not spend, and they can move money from, for example, 2022 to 2021. But in three years' time, the budget will be kept. This creates greater freedom of action, for example for civil defence. An investigation is under way here, and we have received an excellent interim report that goes very hand in hand with the report Resistance. We'll wait for the investigation. We'll make a lot of money. But we also give them the flexibility to push this money to 2022 depending on what the investigation concludes. This 2% of GDP and three-year budget is important. The Swedish Armed Forces have to some extent carried out what is written in Värnkraft. However, given the budget allocated, some elements have had to be reduced. With our policy, the Swedish Armed Forces can again address all the elements that have been down-priority with regard to the government's budget. In addition to this, our efforts mean that staff can be employed, that those who have been given leave can be reinstated if they wish and that salaries can be increased. We were just talking about the presence in Afghanistan, Mali and Iraq. What does the government say? Well, the government estimates that participation in international efforts has affected the ability of the armed forces, and in some cases reduced the possibilities to develop the armed forces and their ability to solve their tasks in a national context. War units are therefore unable to solve their tasks, but here we are discussing investments abroad. Can you do both? Yes, but then more resources need to be added. Our positions are based on a different priority. In the first place, we invest in Sweden's own national war units so that they are strengthened. We cannot accept that war units cannot solve combat tasks because they have a large proportion of their qualified personnel abroad. For four years now, we have been exercising that the recruitment offices are not enough. Now there are two of them, and you want to open a third. That is what we said four years ago, and we are still saying it. The Swedish Democrats believe that Luleå is the place for an additional recruitment office. With regard to the procurement of materials, we would like to point out in particular the needs of the Home Guard for new sensors, new dark equipment and new drones. This is part of our budget. Talking about the Hercule plan is an interesting question: why do two Hercules planes say in Cambridge, England? They have allegedly been out in the weather for two years, unusable. It costs money. It's not free to stand there. So why? Then again, we can draw attention to the fact that, as usual, the Prime Minister blames someone else because he has distributed directives to the authorities on how to manage this. I can only say that when you do this, it must be understood that regulatory letters and other things must have follow-up and control. You have to ask, are you doing what we say? You can't just say, we've said this. It's their responsibility. It's not our fault. It's theirs. There is much more to say about this, but although you would like to hear my voice further, thank you for the floor, Madam President.
i-e8e40301e832376e-459	Madam President, I would like Hello to all of you who are watching at home! We are today debating the spending area in the state budget on defence and security policy. The Left Party has presented its own state budget, which we see as a whole for all the different policies. There we tell you about our efforts and our economic policy. The most important guiding words of the Left Party in political work are always equality. That's always where we strive. We know that equal societies are stronger societies. It is when we stick together, when we level economic divides, when we help each other and when we care for each other that society becomes more resilient to crises or attacks. When we trust each other and when we get to know each other, as individuals and as a group, we can see through and expose propaganda and errors. It is when we stick together that we can more easily cope with major crises in everyday life, such as blackouts or worse things like pandemics, major floods and fires. Our strength lies in our relationship and our community. The work on gender equality in the field of defence is a very important issue for us. The number of women in the Armed Forces is still small and far from what a minimum definition of gender equality means. Of course, this must change. It is of the utmost importance that the Swedish Armed Forces have strategic work in order for more women to do military service and apply to the Swedish Armed Forces, but also to be able to stay. Against this background, as a defence policy, I am of course very angry when I take note of the report about harassment and violence on one of our regiments, as SVT showed this week. At the same time, however, I am pleased to hear the comments made by the army commander in particular over the last few days, with a clear rejection and clear demand for improvement. Here we see how important the work of conscripts' elected representatives in the Plikt Council is to find out and sound the alarm about these kinds of events. The Committee on Defence will, of course, take note of future investigations into this and the measures that will be taken. For the Left Party, military service is part of the popular attachment of Sweden's defence and in so doing also a way of building an equal society. Although the number of conscripts is not as large as it once was, military service is a place where young people from different backgrounds and with different experiences meet, live, work and train together. We in the Left Party think that this is very valuable, and it is therefore good that the number of conscripts will increase in the future. We all have a common responsibility to face different types of threats, whether climate-related or from misinformation, racism or extremism. In future, compulsory service should also include civilian elements in order to increase our preparedness for, for example, natural and environmental disasters. That is something that we unfortunately know will become more frequent in the wake of climate change. Madam President, I would like We are still in a huge civil crisis – the pandemic caused by the Corona virus. The pandemic shows the need for strong emergency preparedness and a stronger and better organised civil defence. The future threats to Sweden will be civilian and not military. It is therefore important that we begin to equip ourselves for real in order to face this kind of threat. The huge investment in civil defence made by the government in the budget is a start. We agree with it. We must continue with this work on many different levels from the individual's emergency preparedness to the work of the major authorities for more robustness. Perhaps it is time for MSB to update the brochure If the crisis or war comes and send it to all households again and thus remind us all how important it is that we ourselves have a readiness at home. The crisis we are in now has become even worse because the well-being of our municipalities and regions is so flawed. Major efforts are needed to employ more people, improve the working environment and raise wages and to have continuous training for all employees in welfare. A well-being that is on its knees from the outset will not be able to cope with a crisis that requires even more work, more work and more resources. For Sweden to be a safe and secure society in the future, major efforts are needed on public welfare. Climate change and natural disasters are other serious threats to our country and to the safety of our citizens. Around the world we see that climate change is the cause of war and conflict. Tackling climate change is therefore working towards a more peaceful and safer world. This must also be a top priority in our security policy work. We must dare to take decisions that counteract the consequences of climate change. Madam President, I would like Politics is about prioritising. Based on our ideologies and our different positions, we prioritise between different expenditures. As a voter, it is ultimately your decision. You should think about what you think is most important and then vote on it in the forthcoming elections. The Left Party always prioritises equality. Every time we make a decision or make budgets, we look at how we get maximum equality in Sweden. In order for Sweden to be a safe country and a strong society in the future, efforts on public welfare are needed. It includes care for the elderly, preschool and health care, but also such important things as garbage management and safe digitalisation. This requires financial resources, more staff and good preparation. It is necessary for Sweden to continue to be a country in peace and freedom where everyone has equal opportunities and is equal to each other. The Left Party has no claim in this section but supports our entire state budget.
i-e8e40301e832376e-478	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Hanna Gunnarsson. We have said from our side that we want a security deposit. Civil defence and the country's emergency preparedness need it, Madam President. We've said three months. Does Hanna Gunnarsson share that view, or do you have a different measure?
i-e8e40301e832376e-479	Madam President, I would like When we talk about stocks in particular, I think it is important that we listen to the experts we have in our authorities and that we follow the advice we get from those who know these questions for real. I find the question of stocks difficult. It is clear that we should have layers of different things that are important to us, but we should also know that it takes an incredibly large organization to maintain layers and then rotate them in the best possible way. This is something I believe and hope that society will look much more at in the future. Where are we going to have stock, and what's the best thing to have in stock? I think it is important in this context that you also talk about the individual's own preparedness at home – that you have food at home so that you can manage for a few days and that you have enough candles, warm clothes, sleeping bags and things to do. It's also a kind of warehouse. But I think it is important that we lean on the expert authorities that we have on these issues.
i-e8e40301e832376e-484	Madam President, I would like Now my question was whether one shares the view that it needs at least three months. Some authorities say that there is a need for at least three months. We share that view. We have reached three months after listening to these parts. As the honourable Member says, there are different layers, Madam President. It's consumption stocks, and it's turnover stocks. It's a big turnover. We had this before, and it worked just fine. Madam President, I would like Although the honourable Member cannot answer here whether it should be exactly three months, I would like to have a comment on the fact that it should in any case be an extended period. In the past, at least three months were agreed. Unless the honourable Member can reply now, the honourable Member may come back to that paragraph.
i-e8e40301e832376e-487	Madam President, I would like It can certainly be that our expert authorities say different times for different goods and different types of stocks. Three months sounds like a good limit for several different types of products. I'm sure there are other periods of time. For example, you can probably have medical supplies for a much longer period than three months. For me, it is important that we lean on what the expert authorities say. We have a huge number of excellent experts in these areas, so there is no reason for me to have different guidelines than our authorities have on these issues.
i-e8e40301e832376e-489	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing here this afternoon is Category 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness. I would like to begin by calling for the reservation under paragraph 2, which we have with the Moderates. I want to make my speech available like this: I will say something about the threats we are standing in the middle of. I will say something about the work of the Defense Committee and where we are right now. Then I would like to make a few brief comments in the report itself. I will start with the security policy situation. It is an increasingly tough security policy situation. While here, in a grey Stockholm, we are debating in peace and quiet war is taking place in Europe. In eastern Ukraine war is taking place. Since Russia illegally took Crimea there is a war going on. True, it is low - intensity, but about ten people lose their lives every month. We in the Defense Committee were there two years ago. I will never forget the visit to the military hospital, where we met some soldiers who had been very injured. Someone had stepped on a mine. Someone else had been hit by a sniper. This is happening in Europe right now. The second thing I would like to remind you is what is happening right now in Belarus and the unrest that is there. Adding this to an increasingly tough Russian exercise pattern in the Baltic Sea will be a reminder that we live in a tougher security policy environment. Now we in Sweden must ensure that we strengthen our defence. That was the task we received from the Minister for Defence in 2017. We in the Defence Committee would look at the threats to Sweden, what needs to be done in the short and long term and at the price tag for this and then present a long-term sustainable proposal. We did that a year and a half ago. In fact, we were very much in agreement. We said, for example, that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. We had a series of suggestions on how to strengthen the defence. We must remember – we are talking about this too – that we must have a long-term perspective. To tear down a military capability is quite easy and fast, but building it takes time. We need a ten-year perspective. It was a cornerstone of the Defence Committee's proposal. We had concrete proposals. As far as the army was concerned, we had to have three brigades with 5,000 men – in Boden, Skövde and Revinge in Skåne. We need to reinforce our marines. It's good, but it needs to get bigger. It must also be on the west coast. The air force we have is very good, but we need to be able to spread it on our aircraft. Otherwise, we are an easy prey in a crisis or at worst a war. These are concrete proposals that we had on exactly how it should be done. The problem was that when we were going to present this under Björn von Sydow's leadership, it turned out that the Social Democrats did not want to be involved in paying what we saw was the cost. I'm gonna make a long story short. There have been inevitable costs and other things that make us, from the Christian Democrats – this is a line that we have along with the Moderates – see that this stairway, where every year it increases by 5 billion, needs to continue in 2026 and 2027. That's an extra 45 billion by 2030. That is when, Madam President, we can pay the bills. That's when we can make this happen. Here we have criticism of the government. It will be wrong to place orders and point out military abilities but not to present the money. What the government says is we're gonna have a checkpoint in three years. But why should we think the Secretary of Defense has money in three years if he doesn't have money today? This is a fundamental criticism we have. We will come back to that discussion on Monday, when we have the next debate on this. This is the focus proposal for the next five years. This is an important thing. It is also a matter of seeing that we must do in the long term, just like our neighbours. If we compare Sweden with countries in our vicinity, we see that Sweden is the country that invests the least in its defence in terms of bnp. We have to change that. We have to go upstairs. NATO countries have decided to have a 2% target. The Christian Democrats want us in Sweden to have the goal that we reach it by 2030. This can enable us to fully build up the defence force we need to create security in Sweden and for the Swedish people, but also contribute to the world around us. We are creating security together with other countries. It is very important to see that we have to pay for ourselves. It is very irresponsible to leave a spring note to others. The defence that we need must also be paid for. Then I would like to make a few brief comments in the report itself. It says here that the government proposes that four authorities cooperate within the framework of a national cybersecurity centre. It's good that the cybersecurity center is in place. This is something we proposed in the Defense Committee. Here Britain is a role model, with the National Cyber Security Centre. We suggest that, just like there, it should be an authority that takes lead. Our proposal is for the FRA to be given the primary responsibility. Now four authorities share the responsibility, and that is not going to be effective. That will not be the required steering speed. That is a criticism that we have. We see that we need to strengthen the cyber defence, and then this division is not good: that there are four who are allowed to share the leadership responsibility. It's not going to be able to do anything. Then it is pointed out on page 9 that the material renewal in the Swedish Armed Forces has not gone according to plan. The causes vary, but one thing is certain. The shorter the forward planning is due to the twitchy economy, the greater the risk that the plans will not last. I will come back to why we think it is important to state right now that we need to continue with this staircase even in 2027 and 2028. The government then points out that improvements need to be made in the field of forest fire control. An important component is to make better use of the helicopters owned by the state than today. This is something that is not mentioned, and it is something that the Christian Democrats have repeatedly pointed out: the State helicopters, which the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Maritime Administration own, should be coordinated under a master, so that we can, for example, use the resources we have in a more efficient way than we have historically. To conclude, I would like to agree with the exact statement made by the Moderates for our reservation. It is about Jas Gripen being very important and that exports are good, but it is important that the government comes back to Parliament for authorisation. We have had that order before, and the view of the Christian Democrats and Moderates is that we should stick to that attitude and that way of acting.
i-e8e40301e832376e-507	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Defence Committee's report No 1, Area of expenditure 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness. Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and rejecting the only reservation that exists. I would also like to emphasise that the preparation of the total defence bill is being carried out with what we might call parallel displacement, which means further defence and security policy debates next week. I therefore choose to concentrate on the economic issues in this debate. Madam President, I would like Defence policy must have its starting point in responsibility for Sweden. It is a question of asserting our sovereignty, our democratic social order and the right to decide for ourselves over our future. The development of the last ten years in the world around us has meant a complete shift in defence and security policy and hence the appropriations for expenditure. Major steps have been taken during the current defence decision-making period, and even greater steps will be taken with the decisions this and next week. Following the 2010 elections, the Parliament decided in December of the same year on a framework for the expenditure area of good EUR 45 billion. The proposal for 2021 amounts to over 71 billion – an increase of nearly 26 billion, or about 60 per cent, in ten years. Madam President, I would like During the period 2021-2025, the level of military defence spending will have increased by 27.5 billion compared to 2020. A total of 79 billion will be added to military defence during the period. Together with the increases decided, proposed and announced by the government during the period 2014– 2020, the military defence spending will have increased by 85 per cent in fixed prices between 2014 and 2025. In addition to the increases in the financial framework previously announced up to 2025, billions will be added in 2024 and an additional billion in 2025. This represents a total of 3 billion more than previously announced up to 2025. The financial framework of 2025 will also be prolonged from 2026 onwards. This means that a further 13 billion will be added between 2024 and 2030. In 2023, the Government will implement a control post and evaluate the implementation of the defence decision to ensure that the reinforcement and cost development are in phase according to the Riksdag's decision on orientation and financial framework. Madam President, I would like This represents the greatest increase in defence capabilities in 70 years. The proposals in the bill are based on the whole of the Defence Committee's proposal and are central to carrying out a necessary increase in military and civil defence capabilities. The efforts mean that the ability of the total defense continues to be strengthened and that the total defense is designed and dimensioned in order to be able to face an armed attack on Sweden, including acts of war on Swedish territory. The reinforcement of ambition should be seen in the light of the fact that the security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and in Europe has deteriorated over time. Sweden will be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood, and an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Madam President, I would like In the 2020 budget report, the Defence Committee stressed that the Swedish Armed Forces should complete the agreed war organisation in the short term for 2021. The committee continues to stress the importance of fully manning and equipping today's war organisation, while at the same time creating the conditions for increased capacity in the long term. The construction of the defence requires good cost control, traceability and follow-up. Strategic governance in the field of defence is highlighted in the budget proposal, and the committee also attaches great importance to compliance with the work of the authorities so that governance and follow-up can be developed. Madam President, I would like However, spending more and more money alone will not mean that the Armed Forces will automatically solve their tasks. For my part, I note in particular the announcement from the Swedish Armed Forces last week: it is not economics that is the challenge, but human resources and infrastructure. I also note the message: we will be able to pursue the orientations of the total defence bill. Madam President, I would like Our starting point in defence and security policy is broad and long-term agreements that benefit our country and our security. I can only regret that the Moderates, who claim to be a State-supporting party, have not been able to shoulder the responsibility of finding the common, broad solution that the country and its citizens deserve. Instead of emphasising the consensus here and now, one has ended up in a position alongside, a position where one would rather talk about there and then – that is, what might happen after the end of this period, what might happen in 2026 – 2027. The desire to distance oneself from the government has meant that the parties on the right have not been able to gather together with the majority of social democrats, environmentalists, center parties and liberals around a unity for the good of the country. It creates the image of a disagreement that hardly exists more than on paper and in the political game, at least not here and now – possibly there and then, but we still know nothing about it. With that, Madam President, I would once again like to support the committee's proposal.
i-e8e40301e832376e-520	Madam President, I would like These are harsh words that come from a social democrat. The fact that the Moderates are not a state-supporting party and that the Moderates do not take responsibility for the defence is a strange attitude, as we are actually standing up to implement what we parliamentarians have agreed on. It is we who believe that it is important not to break out parts of the Defence Committee's report and then sort of try to put together the house that is built, because it will not work. It is we who believe that it is important that every part of the Defence Committee's report becomes a reality. When you meet a unit, you can see that several parts of the defence committee's thoughts and entrances have already been removed from the system. Then we can either defend a Social Democratic Minister of Defence who does this or defend the parliamentary decision that we have drawn up and which is important that it be implemented in its entirety. You can also look at what is needed in this activity. A long-term approach is needed, and planning conditions are needed to buy equipment, train troops and build infrastructure. We must then be able to provide more than just a budget. My question to Mr ClasGöran is whether you want to add to the defence economy after the period of defence policy ends, that is 2026 onwards. Are the Social Democrats prepared to provide the means to implement what has been agreed by Parliament in the Committee on Defence?
i-e8e40301e832376e-524	Madam President, I would like I take note of the questions from Jan Andersson, who represents a party whose Prime Minister spoke a number of years ago about defence as a special interest in the economic debate. Jan R Andersson talks about tasks and abilities that have already been removed. In that case, Jan R Andersson and the Moderates should suggest more money in the near future, but they do not. They choose to concentrate on the period after 2025 instead of gathering their strength here and now and ensure that here and now they solve the tasks to be solved in the field of defence. I think it will be a rather strange debate when we would rather discuss what is far beyond the horizon than be prepared to take responsibility here and now for a joint decision that would benefit Sweden.
i-e8e40301e832376e-527	Madam President, I would like Let me remind ClasGöran Carlsson of the huge savings that the Social Democrats presented during the time that the Alliance led the country. Perhaps it could have been even worse if we had not had the government we had then. Madam President, I would like We have asked the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence if there are any increased costs that will be gökingar in the forthcoming defence decision. We have not received an answer, but there are still suspicions that this will be the case. What the authorities say is that so far there have been positive effects from the development of costs. But it won't be like that forever. I would like to ask ClasGöran Carlsson: Can you guarantee that there will be no cost in the Swedish Armed Forces in the coming years?
i-e8e40301e832376e-530	Madam President, I would like No, Jan R Andersson, I cannot guarantee that there will be no cost increases. Nor can I guarantee a price trend that goes the other way, as we have had in the last period. I think, once again, that it would have been important if, together, we could have found a common understanding here and now that we are jointly building the defence of Sweden over the next few years rather than reaching a discussion about what we might not be able to do in 2026 or 2027. I think it would have been useful for the political debate if it had in practice been about what we really agree on instead of hypotheses that are far beyond the horizon.
i-e8e40301e832376e-533	Madam President, I would like In the Defence Committee it was a basic bolt to have the ten-year perspective. It takes time to build up military capabilities. What has turned out now is that there is no money. In this ten-year perspective, there's a lot of money missing. I simply wonder: why do the Social Democrats choose not to continue on the steps to 2026 and 2027 so that we could have been credible that what we have ordered can also be paid for?
i-e8e40301e832376e-535	Madam President, I would like I'm not ruling out any more money from 2026, Mikael Oscarsson. But I think – again, as I said in the previous line change – that it is unfortunate if we get into a discussion about the need for more money later rather than concentrating on the tasks we have here and now. I note the announcement from the Swedish Armed Forces last week that it is assessed that it is not the economy that is the biggest obstacle in the coming years. It is about infrastructure supply and staff supply. The task is not solved simply because we are making more and more money available. That money, the financial resources, must also be able to be taken care of in a relevant way rather than being wasted in a structure that is pushed through rather than being done in a planned and thorough manner.
i-e8e40301e832376e-537	Madam President, I would like It's not a question of wasting money. It is very carefully calculated how much is needed. ÖB has made it clear that he wishes to know about the years 2026 and 2027. When you build a military capability, this is a short time. The statement we received last week was that there were substantial cost increases in the air force. This applies to the new J as 39 E and to the maintenance of Jas 39 C/ D and to the challenges of staff supply, new constructions and infrastructure. Now they use the PLO, the price and salary recalculation system, but it's like leaning towards a curtain. We must have a sustainable economy in the long term. It is tragic that the government does not want to be involved in producing the necessary funding.
i-e8e40301e832376e-539	Madam President, I would like I was a member of the Defence Committee between 2010 and 2014. I did not hear once in those years Mikael Oscarsson demanding fully funded ten-year defense decisions.
i-e8e40301e832376e-540	Madam President, I would like Thank you to my colleagues in the defence policy for their previous speeches on these important issues! Evening New Year's Eve is the final day for the implementation and implementation of the current orientation decisions from June 2015. When you look back, it may feel like it's gone very fast. At the same time, we note that a lot has happened, both in terms of international development and at home, in the work to strengthen our overall preparedness. We can also see some challenges related to total defence development. Many important positions were taken in 2015. Not least, it was a trend break with more resources and a clear focus on strengthening military capability development, strengthening peoples' attachment and defence will and getting total defence planning going all over the country. We can see in the annual reports from previous years and follow-up now in the current draft budget that a lot has happened and that many important processes are ongoing both in the Swedish Armed Forces' operations and in the responsibilities of the civil authorities and not least now in Sweden's municipalities and regions. It is about the fact that this issue must permeate the whole of society, all sectors of society and also, in one way or another, involve the whole population. It is about our common security, security and also clarity as to where we stand as a democratic country in relation to other countries that are challenging the current world order. Building defense capabilities takes time. It requires resources and is accompanied by many challenges. We have seen it in the past years with erosion effects – less has been gained for the money it has decided to add, inevitability with cost increases has occurred and changes have been made that have affected planning. We must provide long-term conditions. That is exactly what the Committee's important work over the last three years has been aimed at – both to produce evidence to describe what it actually looks like and to clarify what is now required and to be carried out civilly and militarily. The Center Party has been involved in taking responsibility with other parties both in government and outside, both in the 2015 defense decision regarding more money and when we have contributed to important additions financially over the last five years. It has been important based on the possibilities of existing defence decisions to be implemented and on how the international situation has gradually changed. Sweden is currently in a situation where we cannot rule out an armed attack. The foundation for the design of the Swedish defence should be to be able to face an armed attack. Therefore, in 2019 we actively made the agreement on significant resource enhancements that will take effect from next year's budget. There will be a further 5 billion in 2021, a further 5 billion in 2022 and a further addition of 5 billion in 2023. This summer's supplementary negotiations resulted in a further 6 billion in 2024 and 7 billion in 2025. It is, as we have heard earlier in the debate, a relatively significant economic strengthening of the Swedish military defence. These are important prerequisites that will now be given for continued growth and increased war organization throughout the country with more regiments, more recruitments, more military training and more officers. Also for enhanced civilian capabilities, a total of 3.8 billion has been agreed up to 2025, starting with 1 billion for 2021. There are very good reasons for this, both the military and strategic situation as well as the security policy situation and an internal vulnerability ranging from emergency preparedness to civil defence. In terms of endurance and overall preparedness, the challenges are enormous. When it comes to emergency preparedness, there is a tendency to focus on just one major crisis at a time. If there's a fire, we'll focus on fire-extinguishing. If there's a storm, there's a lot of connection to it. If it rains and becomes floods, we talk a lot about floods. We can take the area by area depending on what is at stake right now. There is a tendency to implement the measures that we feel are needed. It is then evaluated and further ex post measures are proposed. We need to be able to deal with several major crises at the same time. We must be able to focus not only on ongoing major challenges but also on what can happen otherwise. What can happen to security policy? And what do we need to make clear for human resources to be present in public activities together with private ones in order to have endurance over long periods of time with severe pressures? That is what this report is about. We need to be able to build civil preparedness in peacetime, with crisis preparedness for daily operations, scale up and enter higher preparedness and even cope with longer periods of security policy major trials and military activities in Sweden. A year ago we heard reports of the lack of important hygiene items in health care, in the activities of the regions, in order to carry out planned operations. Soon the pandemic broke out at the beginning of the year. The experience of what the Defence Committee had presented in December in the report Resistance became a reality. What we talked about already three years ago became a fact, with the great vulnerabilities we currently have in Sweden. We don't have enough perseverance. We lack sufficient perseverance in staffing, but also the necessary resources to scale up day-to-day operations. When we and the world were affected by the pandemic, obvious vulnerabilities became even more visible. The pandemic has certainly exposed major shortcomings in Swedish emergency preparedness. We need to talk about that and together help to deal with it. These are shortcomings that have been known since before, but which have been left entirely without action. Madam President, I would like It is an undergrade for Swedish crisis preparedness that the major development steps are only taken when the crises have occurred. We need to be proactive, proactive and prepared for major events, even when it comes to civilian preparedness. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has taken active responsibility these years to provide both the military and the civilian with more money and significant resources. We see that additional resources will be needed. Our goal for 2030 is to achieve 2% of GDP for military defence. The proposal of the defence committee in the report Värnkraft shall be re-examined in its entirety. It will require more resources. Now we are taking important steps forward. We are taking important steps to start a new focus decision, a new period, as early as 2021. It should then be followed up with increased cost awareness, evaluation and follow-up years thereafter. Then the basis for another defence decision for 2026 will be laid. We have great expectations. Now it is also a question of using the tax chandeliers allocated to these important activities responsibly. Taxpayers and the Swedish people should receive as much as possible every day in the increase in these large increases in costs and contributions. It's necessary, too. In order for it to be implemented in the best possible way, we are involved in this important work. There's a lot to highlight. Next week we will have the big debate ahead of the defence decision for the next five to ten years. However, we need to carry this together on a daily basis in order to best strengthen our readiness. It is about people's lives and health and our overall safety. I would like to ask for the appropriate proposals to be approved. I also thank you for a good debate.
i-e8e40301e832376e-562	Madam President, I would like Thank you to previous speakers for a constructive and good debate! It is a historic day in Swedish defence policy, of course, because of the medialized decision on the NATO option that was taken this morning in one of our committees here in Parliament, but also because of the budget that we are now debating. Madam President, I would like With this budget nothing but a historic journey for Swedish defence begins. After seven decades of closures and decommissionings, the Swedish military defence will finally grow again. So there have been seven decades of contractions, and now it will begin to grow again. It's historic. For five years Sweden will go from using cirk a 1 percent of bnp to defense to 11⁄2 percent of bnp. That will not be enough, as many have said earlier in the debate. But it is not possible to say anything other than that it is a very good start. With only the increase in appropriations that is now to be decided, the expenditure area will be added more than 200 billion in the 20th century. For those of us who have fought year after year to increase the funding to the Swedish Armed Forces, who have long aimed at at at least 2 per cent of bnp for Sweden's defence, this is a very big victory. It is a historic day for Swedish defence. Of course, all our neighbours, perhaps with one exception, take a positive view of the Swedish reinforcements. It is also gratifying that seven of the eight parties in this House are broadly in agreement on the economy for the period of defence before us. It gives important signals to the Swedish people, to the neighbours and to those neighbours who may not like Sweden investing in defence. The budget proposal for 2021 that we are debating today is quite customary. The attempt to turn it into a defense decision was stopped. Not least for long-term sustainability and stability, it is crucial that we have a total defence bill that lays down the conditions until 2025 and with a view to 2030. Madam President, I would like The Liberals never supported the defence decision in 2015, because we realised that it was severely underfunded. And unfortunately, we were right. Almost every year during the current period of defence, Peter Hultqvist was forced to pull out with new economic reinforcements. It was almost a little nagging how obvious it was that it wasn't enough. Yet the overall objectives of two fully equipped and trained army brigades, for example, were not reached. Much can be said about the defence decision in 2015, but it hardly strengthened confidence in the defence policy's ability to do the right thing. The order of the defence economy must be improved. That's why the Liberals have fought for a series of sharpenings. Through established object frames established by the Riksdag, combat flying and underwater capability must now be given a fixed financial framework that cannot be exceeded with less than the permission of the Riksdag, this House. The design-to-cost principle is also introduced. This means that the distributed economy applies, and if costs threaten, the order may be reduced or re-specified. It is simply a question of keeping within the agreed framework. No later than 1 January 2023, a new budget-financed authority will be set up to monitor and evaluate military and civil defence activities. It is a question of rationality in terms of both the economy and activity. Furthermore, immediately after the 2022 elections, the Defence Committee will start working with a control station. This is a follow-up to the defence decision that will be taken next week. The defence committee shall check that finances and orientations are consistent with Parliament's decisions. At the same time, the preparation also proposes planning frameworks for the next defence decision period, i.e. for the years 2026 – 2030. But let me be crystal clear and quite clear: the final economy for the period is set out in a new defence decision in 2025. Madam President, I would like The report before us today in this House contains a reservation from the Moderates. With regard to the possible sale of Jas Gripen C/ D in order to increase the availability of the combat aircraft system, the government is only seeking to authorise for a year. I can feel some understanding of that attitude, but from our side it is important to remember that the Riksdag can at any time decide to withdraw its authorisation. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-e8e40301e832376e-574	Madam President, I would like Defence is incredibly important for everyone's safety and security. Total defence covers a wide range of actors and activities in several areas of expenditure and consists of both military and civil defence. They are important to each other individually but also crucial to each other. It is a security for all of us that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, based on the Government's mission, continue to develop coherent planning of the total defence and support the overall defence planning of the relevant actors. On Monday, we are debating the new total defence bill. In it we lay new foundations for Sweden's continued security policy orientations for many years to come. Every year we also debate the defence budget and where to put the resources to strengthen those parts where we see that development needs to be strengthened. It is today's debate that is a forum for. The Government will contribute SEK 5 billion to the military defence and SEK 1 billion to the civilian defence in 2021. Much more follows the years to come. Madam President, I would like Military defence is usually what we think about when we talk about defence. It's important. It needs to be strengthened, and it is now also being done in the future with more conscripts, more investment and development projects. Cyber threats to Sweden and Swedish interests are widespread. The establishment of the national cybersecurity centre strengthens Sweden's overall ability to prevent, detect and manage antagonistic cyber threats. The increased coordination of the establishment of the Centre will be an important component of the development of information and cyber security in Sweden. MSB, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Security Service have now been tasked with developing a joint, integrated action plan with several measures. The importance of cyber threats and misinformation cannot be stressed enough. The systematic work on information and cyber security should be further strengthened by more actors in total defence. Cybersecurity is thus strengthened. Sweden's security and defence cooperation is deepened. The Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities are increasing, which also increases stability in the immediate area and thus serves a security policy purpose. What we in the Green Party also see as important is the development of civil-military cooperation. We must be able to use our resources in the best and most effective way. We already have examples, such as when the Swedish Armed Forces help with firefighting or stand up with field hospitals. But more needs to be done, and cooperation needs to be facilitated and encouraged. That is why it is important that efforts are now being made to develop precisely this. It is also important that the budget is kept. The Swedish Financial Control Agency is tasked with supporting the Swedish Armed Forces in developing financial data. The development of investment planning has resulted in the Armed Forces' investment planning now being based on agreed budgetary frameworks. We hope that will continue to be the case in the future, because it is extremely important that we now stay within the greatly expanded budgetary framework that is being given. Madam President, I would like We must strengthen Sweden's emergency preparedness and civil defence itself. It has been neglected, and it turns out every time we are exposed to a crisis, whether it is a fire, a pandemic or something else. There is still a lot of focus on knowledge-raising activities, but we see that concrete measures that contribute to increased resilience for both individuals and organisations are underway. As far as civil defence is concerned, we have a much longer way to go than in the case of military elements. We must make great efforts before we can consider ourselves satisfied, also because the efforts we are making on military defence are in danger of not reaching capacity in full due to the lack of resources for civil defence. They're interdependent. Civil defence concerns the whole of society, and reconstruction is an ongoing process that needs to continue strongly in the coming years. All stakeholders need to continue to develop and strengthen their own organisation's ability to meet the requirements of increased preparedness. The interaction initiated between public authorities, industry and NGOs needs to be deepened. Madam President, I would like When it comes to protection against accidents, society's ability to prevent fires has been developed, but there are other elements that need to be further developed. The management of forest fires in 2018 showed that there are areas for improvement, including in terms of overall management, national priority and distribution of reinforcement resources, and the interaction between municipal civil protection services. Just today, the UN warns that the earth's temperature increase is likely to rise to three degrees Fahrenheit [3 ° C]. It will pose a much greater risk to both large fires and floods and other crises in the near future. In conclusion, I would like to say that defence and society's emergency preparedness is something important, complex and crucial for Sweden's security. It is therefore of great importance that we now strengthen with both financial and human resources. Sweden will continue to be a strong voice for peace, freedom and democracy. This applies both to ourselves and to others. As we increase our own capacity to protect our citizens, it is part of this work. The debate on defence will continue on Monday. That is why I am closing my speech here and calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-e8e40301e832376e-588	Madam President, I would like It doesn't have to be said, but I'm saying it anyway: we have a very serious situation in Sweden in terms of shootings, explosions and gang crime. There is growing insecurity, as is the number of people connected to the criminal gangs. It is really difficult nowadays to wake up in the morning and open a newspaper without seeing that there have been new things that just a few years ago had meant different extra broadcasts on TV. The other day, we received new figures showing that by 2020, apparently, will be another dark record year in terms of the number of shootings in Sweden. There has so far been a shooting every day throughout 2020. Let it sink in! But it doesn't stop there. We also see how the number of dead in shootings is at very high levels. The number of blasts, or actually blasts, a word that better describes what it is really about, is also at a high level. The other day we found, or were forced to take part in, that criminal persons placed an explosive device in a doctor's office and detonated it, with the result that an 85-year-old woman was badly injured. All these sad things have increased in recent years: the shootings, the blasts, the number of people in the criminal environment and the number of murders by shootings. There is really only one thing that has fallen, and that is the number of police officers in external service. That is what it looks like, now that we are meeting for the budget debate in December 2020. Madam President, I would like Responsibility for this situation falls very heavily on the government that is now in its seventh year of government. This does not mean that there are not others without debt or that all problems arose in 2014. Everyone realizes that. But it is not possible to waive responsibility for those who sit in the government and have done so for a very long time. They are in their seventh year of government, and the situation in Sweden in terms of insecurity is worse than ever before. Responsibility falls heavily on the government, which for a long time refused to recognise the problems and their scale. It pointed to those who pointed out the problems and said that something was not right and that a number of strong measures had to be taken. After the parliament forced the government to act on several points, changes have started to be made at a late stage. But apparently it seems more interested in putting those changes in investigations that will work for many months, in many cases even for years, and focusing on it rather than delivering legislation, concrete reforms and clear results here and now. This responsibility cannot be imposed on anyone else by this government. They must be able to take that responsibility on their own. Madam President, I would like The great risk is that people in Sweden are losing hope and feel that there is no future in a Sweden that is becoming increasingly insecure and where shootings, explosions and crime are commonplace. During these years I have talked to so many people who said: Is there any future in Sweden? Do you dare have your family, your children and your loved ones here? I imagine that many people in this House have met with similar descriptions. It's a very boring development. My answer to them is: although the situation is serious, it is not hopeless. It is no law of nature that it should look like this, that you should wake up every morning and ask yourself whether something has happened but what has happened and how many different places. We in the Moderates have long pointed out Denmark, but not that Denmark would be a perfect country, that there would be no crime there or that they would in every way be better than us. We have pointed out Denmark from a certain perspective, namely that a few years ago people had very serious problems with gang crime but did not just say that it is unacceptable; now someone has to do something – can we not just sit down and talk a little unbiased for a few years and see if we can possibly agree on something? No, there the political parties, in fact in broad political agreement, chose to carry out very tough reforms against gang crime. Several of these reforms have been put on the table by Moderates, because we see that they work. In Denmark, the number of people in gang-criminal environments has decreased in recent years, while in Sweden it has exploded in the opposite direction. These are, for example, severely tightened penalties. That's it. We want to introduce the Danish model of being able to give double penalties for gang crime. Basically, we are talking about repeat offenders here – people who repeatedly commit new crimes. It is far more difficult for them to commit new crimes if they are detained than if they are in the streets. We want to criminalise participation in the criminal gangs. We also want to tighten up the rules on expulsion. If you are a foreign citizen and commit crimes in Sweden, Sweden is not the country for you. But that is not enough, Madam President. There is also much else that needs to happen. We need to add new tools to the police and to the whole chain of justice. It is about improving the possibility of using secret coercive measures and monitoring gang members. It is a question of introducing search zones in order to be able to look for weapons and explosives. It is a matter of introducing a new general rule into the confidentiality legislation in order to share all relevant information with the police. It is also a question of being able to make it easier to seize the property of criminals. It shouldn't be flashy being a criminal. You shouldn't be able to ride around in that expensive car with that nice watch on your arm even though you're zero-taxed, because it creates incentives for many young people to go into crime. We're not gonna have it like that. We also need to introduce anonymous witnesses to remedy the culture of silence that holds not least many of our exclusion areas in Sweden in an iron grip. Shooting can take place on the open street in the middle of the light day in front of people, but no one has seen anything, no one dares to step forward and no one dares to tell. We must change that situation. Madam President, I would like In addition, we need to increase resources for the judiciary. In our moderate budget, we have proposed a billion-dollar investment in the judiciary. It's about more cops. It is about paying them better, to increase attractiveness. But it is also about strengthening the whole chain of justice and getting all the parts to go with it. The police, the prosecutors, the criminal services, the Swedish courts, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish Security Service – all of them with the Moderates' budget would receive higher funding, more money and more resources than with the budget that the government and its partner parties have put on the table. It's a fact. That's what it looks like. These resources could have had a major impact. They could have had a great effect in the very serious situation that we are currently in. Unfortunately, however, the government with partner parties has chosen to lie down at a lower level. For that they bear a responsibility. Madam President, I would like I began by saying that many people are losing hope. I can understand that feeling. But I would urge people once again not to feel that way. This can be changed. You can handle the problems. It's not a law of nature that it should look like this. Do not lose hope — change government instead!
i-e8e40301e832376e-600	Madam President, I would like In every government declaration for six years in power, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has declared that the government will destroy gang crime in our country. We can now see more shootings, more deaths by gang-related violence, more blasts for this year and more innocent people killed than ever in our country. Add to that that almost no gang-related murder has been cleared up because no one dares talk to the police. Gang criminals have taken control of entire communities in our country. Once someone can be prosecuted, it requires that they be convicted in Denmark in order for them to receive a punishment worth the name. The red-green government's total failure to crush gang crime does not stem mainly from a lack of will. The accident is simply the result of a lack of political roots and ambitions required to change these developments. Sweden needs a more conservative criminal policy that stands up for right and wrong, which emphasises its own responsibility for its own actions and which not only dares to mark but wants to mark when the border is crossed. We need a government that wants to reconsider policies in order to achieve other results. Madam President, I would like No one in our country can truly believe that a government that has failed every year has the right conditions for doing something else tomorrow or for next year. We are a number of parties in this Assembly who present political proposals on an annual basis, but also budgetary frameworks and ambitions for our authorities. It must be a shame, Mr President, that the Minister for Justice has to drag his way here every year with the least budget added by all the parties presenting their proposals here. Even the Left Party invests more money in the judiciary than the Red-Green Government does. This is, of course, a confirmation that the government lacks an ambition level that not least the Swedish Democrats consider necessary to reverse developments with an escalating criminality and a constant betrayal of Sweden's criminality. The Swedish Democrats are spending almost 10 billion more than the government on the judiciary just for next year. It's a big bet for us too. But it is an initiative that we have chosen to see as an investment for our country at a time when the coronapandemy is destroying our economy and our jobs. Sweden has for many years lacked ambition levels for the judiciary, which has meant that we have large and necessary investments to make. We think it would be a good deal not to delay these investments when the circumstances now suggest that we need momentum here and now. We want to increase the pace of building our institutions. We need both more temporary places in the short term and permanent places in the longer term, not least because more people with our policies will spend longer in prison. With the Government's ambition, the capacity of the Correctional Service will remain strained perhaps ten years in the future. This is something that the Swedish Democrats will not accept. We also need to look at how we can use a European prison capacity to solve the overcrowding of the Prison Service in the short term and when it happens in the future. But it is also about how we can use European institution capacity to break down the status of gang criminals. Correctional services are one of the areas where we make the greatest investments, with almost 2.2 billion more than the government for next year. The second major funding line for the Swedish Democrats is the Swedish Police Authority, where everyone today seems to agree that it needs to train more policemen. But we are concerned about the empty places in our courses and that so many applicants are not suitable. New measures are simply needed to achieve new results. The Swedish Democrats propose salary during education so that more groups in society, perhaps people in the middle of life, should see it as a reasonable opportunity to be able to train themselves to the police profession. We also propose a substantial wage investment on our police, which is doing a fantastic job and which we want to keep for a long time in the profession while retaining skills where it is most useful. This requires a change in both working conditions and in the pay envelope.We invest almost 1 1⁄2 billion for a salary investment in next year's budget and 1 1⁄2 billion in order for the training to take place with paid salary. We are also investing money in ensuring that all vulnerable areas in our country can be monitored and that more security guards will secure municipalities until we have enough police officers. Mr President, I would like to We also meet the request from the Prosecutor's Office, and we also invest additional funds. We have higher levels of ambition than the government for all funding within the judiciary. But not least this year we also have a state compensation guarantee that allows victims to obtain their entire compensation in a simple way with the guarantee. The draft budget of the Swedish Democrats represents precisely the increase in ambition that is necessary in the short term. But we also have great investment to ensure that the rule of law is strong for a very long time in our country. That is what the Swedish people really deserve after decades of social development in the wrong direction.
i-e8e40301e832376e-619	Mr President, I would like to We live in a challenging time where too many feel insecure and anxious. It is a concern about whether their children will get enough help in school, worry about whether the bus to work will be full now during the Corona times and worry about going to the store on the corner in the evening. The insecurity in society is growing because too many people also want it to be a little worried. But it doesn't have to be like this. If we want, we can change society for the better. We can create a school where all students have a natural place and a public transport that even during tough periods like this has room for both nurses and teachers. We can change so that the square at night is a welcoming place and not a place where gang criminals take someone's life. I know things can change. I want to change. In my Sweden there are no vulnerable areas. There are only safe areas. These are safe areas for ordinary people, without high fences and walls. Security because we trust each other. But then a change must take place fundamentally. In economically equal societies, crime is lower. When gaps between people decrease, crime also decreases. It is a matter of course that if the difference between us is small, they all have roughly the same conditions from the beginning, and then security increases as well. While the number of people exposed to crime in Sweden has declined substantially, shootings and murders have hit some poor urban areas hard. It is not a coincidence but has to do with the fact that inequality has increased fastest in Sweden seen to the whole Western world. Inequality grows every day, increasing anxiety, insecurity, and shootings. Today's young criminals grew up in years of growing class divisions, unemployment, child poverty and hopelessness. The only way to reverse this trend in the long term is to reduce the gaps and make Sweden a country where all children have reasonable chances of life. The government claims to want to reduce crime and its causes. But that's not true. Then the inequality in Sweden would not have been as great as it is today. The Social Democratic Government is deliberately making sure that the class divides are growing. The rich get richer. The elite grows at the expense of everyone else. Had the government been serious about creating security for everyone across Sweden, the privatisation of the school would have been stopped, because the school is today a sorting system – you are good enough, but you are not good enough. Teachers already see in primary school which children are going to get hurt and who are most at risk of falling into crime – which children will become young boys who are being exploited by gang criminals to act as runaway boys with drugs and weapons. Yet nothing is done until it is too late. I'm the daughter of a middle school teacher. My mother is famous for always getting the toughest classes, the troubleiest students. Mr President, Katarina Snecker is not someone you are arguing with; I can assure you that. I don't know how many times I've seen my mother's old students walk up to her at the grocery store in Bålsta and thank her for the demands she put on them when she was young so they didn't end up wrong in life. But that kind of school doesn't exist today. Today, the prize hunt for the school owner is more important than the teacher's teaching. How should I as a legal politician be able to create security in Sweden when Swedish school goes on its knees? The apparent inequality is the breeding ground for shooting and killing. Exposed areas are still far too vulnerable. It is absolutely necessary for Sweden to have more police officers who are really good at their job, know the area they work in and have the right support and good conditions. There is a need for more police officers who are really good at their job, have a good working environment and are able to take the fight against criminals every day. This is done by the Left Party. Now we also need to make sure that the police are 10 000 more, as promised. However, if you ask the police themselves what they think will help to combat crime, few think they can solve this problem on their own. A lot needs to change. It does little to shoot a lot of additional policemen with one hand while with the other hand making life chances even more unfair to those who grow up in vulnerable areas. There is a need for courageous politicians who take courageous decisions and want to change for real, not just put the law down, and who do not want to hold government power for everything in the world. The Left Party really wants to change. We want to reduce crime and reduce the economic gaps between people. For every child who does not fit in with the profit margins of private schools becomes a child who gang criminals can raise into a dark and destructive world. Every kid who sees his parents looking for a job and always getting rejected is a child who doesn't want to be a part of society. Only if we create an economy where all young people in the suburbs have the same chances as other young people can we stop the shootings seriously. The only way to achieve this is to give all children sufficient opportunities to succeed in life, from preschool to school and the first job, and to ensure that all adults have sufficient opportunities to give their children a good life. The safe Sweden we can create. It is possible to change, and it is possible to narrow the gaps between people. Society is connected, and justice policy must see this. Then the gap between people cannot continue to grow.
i-e8e40301e832376e-636	Mr President, I would like to I listened with interest to Linda Westerlund's speech. There is much there that I think many agree with, and I also share the picture of the important role of the school. The school is a battering ram against both segregation and exclusion and also against crime. Even if it doesn't solve all the problems, it gives it, I think, a very good start in life. Then the answer may not be quite as simple as the fact that there is only a profit interest and that before then there were no problems. Many of the bad schools are actually municipal schools, which are run in other ways. I think that the Left Party is missing in its analysis, and that does not surprise anyone. I was thinking a little bit about the fact that there are still some things that we, whether we like many other things differently, can try to agree on. No one likes crime, to take a pretty obvious thing. There is now an initiative on the part of the government to try to reason between the different parties on different types of solutions that should last over time. I was quite critical of this from the beginning – not of the ambition to try to get along, because that is very good. But it is good if you start by trying to talk about what to agree on and do it in a trustful way so that you do not invite your elbow through the media but can have a good discussion right from the start. I would like to hear how Linda Westerlund Snecker views both that ambition and the work carried out in the so-called Safety Preparation.
i-e8e40301e832376e-641	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the question! I think you and I and our parties are quite in agreement that the Security Preparation was a good ambition. Let's try to get along! I think it is good that in politics we have large areas of conflict where we do not agree at all, but also areas where we are actually trying to meet the major challenges facing society. I do not think the government and the Center Party have succeeded in this ambition. We can discuss what the invitation to us in the various parties looked like, but after eight months as a member of the Security Committee, I can say that we are a long way from each other in terms of how we look at society and what the biggest criminal policy challenges are. Then I think there are two options. Either we shut down the preparation. I think that would be boring; I do not think that is how politics should work, and I do not think that is how the people of Sweden should perceive us politicians. I would rather we convert the directives into preparation and actually look at what we could agree on and what dialogue we could have instead. I think there are a couple of things we could discuss more closely, including how the legal chain in Sweden should work. We can all say that it does not work today. If you go big on the police, there will be a lot of work for the prosecutors. It is now very crowded at Sweden's prisons and detention centres, precisely because they have succeeded well in the courts, who have worked iron to get convictions for criminals. Let us talk about the overall picture of our authorities! I think that would be a better step than philosophizing about the major challenges of the judicial debate.
i-e8e40301e832376e-646	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely sure that I agree with Linda Snecker and the Left Party in terms of what can be agreed or even the basic analysis. But there is still some kind of consensus, I think I hear when I listen to Linda Westerlund Snecker: It's easier to get along with things if you talk to each other about what to agree on and which areas to look at than if you don't. This is true not only in these parliamentary preparations but also in life at large. Cooperation makes it easier. I think there are a lot of areas that may not be so politically charged and that one could reach some kind of long-term consensus on. What is a little ironic, I think, is that many of those areas are missing in the preparation process, even though it deals with a great many other areas. In the event that there is no change in the directive for the investigation, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights still exists. There we all have a responsibility to make wise decisions all the time. We have, I think, done that for the last year. I think we have addressed more than 60 announcements to the government. The Left Party has been involved in a number of them, and I welcome that, of course. We have in the near future, for example, the issue of the arms directive, where we have landed in a rather common position. I believe that there may be more such areas, such as making the whole legal chain work well and avoiding the kind of bottlenecks that may exist. There may also be things that are not so politically charged but very important. I know, for example, that the Left Party has taken on this issue of recidivism prevention in the Prison Service – ensuring that people do not relapse into crime but that the first time in the Prison Service is also the last. My question to the Left Party is: If this is not a changed directive and if we are to continue to thresh around with no concrete results, is the Left Party prepared to continue to be involved in forcing the government to act through announcements in parliament?
i-e8e40301e832376e-651	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important that the government constantly remembers that it is a minority government. The government does not have a majority in the Swedish parliament. The government must come to Parliament and have a dialogue if you want to have its policies through. This seems demonstrably the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Home Affairs repeatedly forget. They are very surprised when we opposition parties, who do not sit in the government and do not negotiate the budget, run over the government, which works in any healthy and well-functioning democracy. The opposition is in power as long as the rulers do not have a majority. It's not weird. That is why I think it is a failure that the government has not managed to obtain more majority for its legislative proposals in general. We in the Committee on Justice are constantly running over the government with different proposals, proposals that are better and more forward-looking. I think that's good. That is something that the Left Party will continue to do. As long as we're not in the government, we're in opposition. As long as you don't talk to us in the Left Party, we're in opposition. It's no harder than that. If we agree with other parties, then we must find solutions. It's not weird. But I think it is good that the government is thinking more about this. I also think it is good that the government should take the criticism of the Safety Preparation back to the Ministry and think about what you actually want with this preparation. One might consider whether we should have a more active chairman in the preparation, as suggested by the police unions, the Polisförbundet. It is not only the Left Party that wants to amend the directives, but also the Polisförbundet is in favour of it. Both the police and the Left Party agree that we must have a safer Sweden.
i-e8e40301e832376e-654	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is severely affected by the elusive crime. Since 2017, Sweden has suffered 1 200 shootings. 2020 looks to be another dark and gloomy record year. It is ten times more likely for a young man to be shot in Sweden than in Germany. The bombings are unprecedented in other EU countries. We need to invest in the judicial system in order to do this. Sweden needs more prosecutors who can prosecute criminals. The prosecutors demanded 50 million more. Government's answer in the budget: SEK 0. Sweden needs more courts where criminal cases can be tried. The government responds by giving the courts a spit styre of what they demand. It is a total under-financing of half a billion SEK. The criminals are trying to launder their dirty money. Economic crime is a key part of organised crime. This must be stopped. The Swedish Financial Crime Agency requested SEK 70 million more. Government answer: SEK 0. The police need long-term funding. There's gotta be more cops. Wages have to be raised. Retired police officers and investigators must be lured back to relieve the burden. Technical equipment needs to be improved. It takes a long-term perspective. What is the government's response? Well, the police are underfunded by 1.7 billion in 2023. This is the government's legal policy. It's time someone else took over the helm. Mr President, I would like to The government and the January parties had 105 billion to spend in their budget but chose to deal with the legal policy priorities with a devastating disregard. Words are not enough to combat serious organised crime. Action is needed, and more resources are needed. The great increase in deadly violence is seriously challenging the security of society. The prosecution has tried to describe the consequences with insufficient resources but has been met with a cold hand by Morgan Johansson. After heavy pressure, it has been reported that there will be more money, but it is unclear when. At the same time, the Correctional Service has announced that it is going up in staff mode because there is simply a lack of space in Swedish prisons. It is a very bleak situation. You can feel an almost hopeless darkness. Many people get that feeling every day when they look up a newspaper or get a flash note that something new terrible has happened. But the situation can be reversed. It will take time – according to the National Police Commissioner 10 – 15 years – to reverse the negative trend. Legislative changes, other ways of working and new powers are needed. But today we are debating the budget, and I will focus my speech on the resources that the Christian Democrats want to spend on the whole judiciary. In our budget option, we allocate more funds to every part of the judiciary. We spend just over 2 billion more than the government next year, and over the three-year period we spend a total of 8.7 billion more than the January parties on the whole judiciary. The government has failed to see the needs of the entire judiciary. Even the police are underfunded for the year 2023, as I said. It is a strange signal when the police must be given the means to regain control. The target of 10 000 more police workers must be achieved, and this must be achieved at a faster pace. We Christian Democrats are therefore presenting in our shadow budget sharp proposals for rapidly releasing police resources and recruiting more. We do it in different steps, different parts. I would like to explain some of them. The first is to extend the Nordic police cooperation and enable the employment of Norwegian police officers in Sweden. In Norway, about 250 trained police officers go unemployed. It could be a fast and powerful resource in the short term if, after a short introductory course, they could start working in Sweden under the leadership of Swedish police officers and with the same police powers as Swedish police officers. The second is that we want the police to have the opportunity to hire police support assistants. We have a targeted focus on this in our shadow budget. It is a question of relieving police officers, particularly in external service, with their administrative burden. Today, so much of a quarter of a cop's working time can be spent on administration rather than on the core business of fighting crime. A single intervention can today lead to hours of administrative work. We invest in our shadow budget to hire 375 police support assistants who could assist with, for example, reporting cases, registering seizures, writing reports and calling for people. The third is that we are allocating funds to hire civilian investigators in local police areas. To push the criminal gangs back more forcefully, this is precisely what is needed. This can be about analysts and asset investigators so that the police will get more power to go on the money and pick status symbols from the criminal groups – these are important for gang recruitment of young people. With this, the police can sustain and increase pressure on the criminal networks in the long-term and local work. Together with other KD proposals such as a targeted police salary initiative for police officers in external service and investigative activities, we estimate that the target of 10,000 more employees can be reached faster. We present these initiatives because they are needed in the emergency that Sweden is in. It is not enough just to invest in the police – you have to invest in the whole of the judiciary. However, more police officers are more quickly crucial to fighting serious crime. Mr President, I would like to In addition, the Swedish Security Service also needs to be expanded strongly and in the long term. We see how Islamist violence-promoting extremism has been behind several acts across Europe in recent times. We in Sweden are not spared. The threat also applies to us. The extreme right-wing environment is also a serious threat and takes on new forms, most recently in something called ecofascism. In addition, there is a high level of activity from third countries. The Security Service therefore needs more resources to deal with these very complex threats. The Christian Democrats spend 100 million more than the government in our budget option. Our draft budget, Mr President, is described in our motion. I have here presented a specific opinion in the report. I would also like to support the reservation in the report on the re-reporting of announcements. We do not share the government's view that the announcements that are being made are being finalised. It is about crimes committed by animal rights activists and about clear and measurable targets for police activities.
i-e8e40301e832376e-674	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want to see a stronger society with better welfare, faster integration and an uncompromising fight against crime. We went to elections on the biggest security program in modern times, with reforms for a safer Sweden. It is about security for you as an individual when life changes, when unemployment knocks on the door or when life as a pensioner starts. It is about the security for your children to have a school that puts students' knowledge in focus and not the stock price and about a health care that is there when you need it, far from a reality where health insurance opens cream files for those who can pay a little more. It is about security through life, for real, for ordinary people, before over-reliance on tax cuts as the constantly recurring answer to how to create freedom for us humans. In our vision of the strong society, everyone, regardless of gender, place or time of day, can move freely in streets and squares, be in their home and in their residential area without feeling anxious or insecure. You can trust that the police are there when you need it and that the police have the time and resources to investigate crime. The strong society does not back off on serious crime and gang crime, but does everything to make ordinary people feel safe. The strong society also does not back off men's violence against women. Basically, it is about equality and everyone's right to a safe upbringing and existence, no matter where you live and who you are. Mr President, I would like to Today's budget debate is about the justice system and category 4 of the budget. It covers SEK 56 billion 430 million and is the figures, priorities and texts behind what is seen in society as the historic effort on the police that we are in the midst of, with the goal of 10 000 more police employees by 2024, the expansion we are now making of the country's prisons and detention centres that are full and the determined and preventive work that is taking place against violent extremism, to name a few. Our work as Social Democrats is about combating crime but also the causes of crime. This requires hard, patient and determined work over a long period of time and in a wide range of areas of society, both with law enforcement and with efforts to prevent people from getting involved in crime. If there is anything I would really like, it is for that discussion to take a little more space in this House, in the media and around society. We have in recent years delivered in this area that no government has delivered before. We have tightened up more than 50 penalties and given new tools to law enforcement. It is about more police officers, more resources, a stronger chain of justice, stronger measures and tougher penalties. All this is good. But to be honest: I think we all know in here that this is not even half the solution but that much more is required of our common society. We need to see 中 that the solution to gang crime with which we are struggling and on which everyone agrees should be stopped is also spelled equal school, stronger welfare and reduced vulnerability 中 that, for every police or judicial resource that we in this House provide, we should also jointly provide more resources for school and social services. ♪ That behind every gang leader being arrested is a bunch of young guys competing for who will have the honor to take over ♪ 中 that the solution is not just about everything that society must do after everything tragic has happened and everything has gone wrong, but that it also needs to be about how we can prevent, catch up and get young people to choose a different way of life. Mr President, I would like to The government's work against crime is about law enforcement efforts today and prevention for the future. In Sweden, everyone should be safe, no matter where you live. We have launched the largest ever expansion of the Police Authority and, among other things, launched a 34-point programme of measures that attack crime from several quarters in both the short and long term. All in all, the most extensive initiative ever against gang crime in Sweden is currently underway. In order to increase security in our country and strengthen society, we must mobilise ourselves in the fight against organised crime. Early efforts with an equivalent school and stronger social services and welfare are crucial in the fight against crime as well as strengthened legislation and effective tools for police and law enforcement authorities. I support the proposal contained in the report 2020 21:JuU1. Although I cannot, I also call for approval of the whole budget that is on Parliament's table right now, because that is the one that contains this very broad approach, the prerequisite for a coherent whole that is the result of the cooperation we Social Democrats have with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. We must fight crime and, at the same time, combat the causes of crime. The best law enforcement in the long term is to build a society where the social divides are small, where everyone has the right to a job, where women and men have the same power and where children and young people have safe growing conditions. In this way, welfare policy is an important part of criminal policy. Sweden should stick together. It's the Swedish model.
i-e8e40301e832376e-693	Mr President, I would like to No chain is stronger than its weakest link, and given the reality we are living in today in terms of security, the chain needs to be so strong that it can be linked between what needs to be steered up and the leadership that will stand for the very drawing. The construction of a strong, fair and reliable rule of law is not done overnight, and although this budget is part of the way, we must realise that it is a long-term endeavour. I understand, and share in many things, the frustration that many express. I also share some of the criticism of the government that leadership has not always been quite clear. I have long lacked a clear vision of justice policy and a declared ambition of what the government really wants to achieve. Perhaps it is also lacking to varying degrees from the rest of us, although, of course, the heaviest responsibility lies with those who claim to rule the country. It's easy to know what we're against and what we don't want. It is difficult, not to say impossible, not to feel agitated by all the serious crimes and serious violations that we get reports of every day. But in order to move forward, I think we need to talk more about what we actually want to achieve than about how much we are against the crimes that are being committed. That's where we're supposed to be united. For me and the Center Party, it is about rebuilding and developing confidence in the rule of law throughout the country. From a location a few years ago when most things went in the right direction in terms of security development, there are now more and more black clouds in the sky. Despite the fact that some categories of crime have been reduced in scope, we have not managed to hold others back with enough force to make people feel confident that the police actually come when you call, that the person who needs help gets it and that the person who commits crime actually gets caught. The budget that we are now debating contains some important pieces of the puzzle. The efforts to strengthen the police continue. Many of the problems we experience with the apparent closure of investigations and sometimes taking a very long time between the commission of a crime and the prosecution are simply a lack of capacity. There are too few hands, feet, hearts and brains involved in police work. By 2024 there will be 10,000 more police employees than there were in 2016. That will not be enough, Mr President. We will also need to improve the efficiency and quality of police work. However, this is something we will have to take in future budgets. The work of the penal services is reinforced in this budget, and given the huge central role of the penal services in the prevention of relapse, it is likely that further reinforcements will be needed over time. We will have to monitor that very carefully. There are also factors that have hindered the development of the Prison Service that are not related to purely budgetary issues. I am thinking of the difficulty of reaching an agreement between the Prison Service and Special Properties. It is a totally unnecessary conflict that is allowed to hinder important expansion projects. The conflict is now resolved, and the spade can be put in the ground for new, efficient and efficient facilities. The Security Service has grown steadily in recent years and continues to develop its activities in order to meet all the threats to our country and our democracy that lie under their responsibility. The National Board of Forensic Medicine also receives reinforcements to carry out its important mission, and more, and more. Of course, the budgetary efforts that go into the field of justice are important, but most of the measures that the law enforcement authorities have to put in place are at a stage where a great deal has already happened. There's a lot going wrong. Mr President, I would like to No human is born a criminal. We know from the research pretty well what leads to crime. At times, reasoning about such things as fluke is dismissed and the focus must be on repressive measures against those who fall into crime. That is, of course, an important part. However, if we are to turn the trend around in a real way, we must tackle the causes that lead to the development of crime. Much in the overall budget is about dealing with the financial damage of the pandemic. We know, Mr President, that economic and social exclusion is an important breeding ground for the development of crime. Combating economic exclusion is fighting crime, albeit in the short term. The school has been debated and mentioned in various contexts in this debate as well. I'm not going to go into that subject now. But an insight that I want to tell you about and that made me very sad was an article I read about a primary - school child who felt vulnerable at school. The child was set down and had thoughts of harming himself. That child had to wait eight months for an appointment with child and adolescent psychiatry. It is eight hugely long months that the child does not want to go to school and even threatens to try to take his own life. That, Mr President, is totally unacceptable from a purely human perspective. The reason why I raise this issue in a budget debate in the area of justice is that the children who do not receive the help they need are at great risk of growing up to adults who commit crimes. Therefore, perhaps one of the most important legal policies in the budget is not in our area, but in category 9, namely the strengthening of child and youth psychology. This is 370 million – I would have liked it to be billions – in efforts to shorten queues and strengthen first-line care. Another 150 million are aimed at promoting mental health in children. In addition, there are also other efforts to promote the mental health of all, which of course meets the children in the long run and also has a positive impact on safety. Mr President, I would like to At an earlier change of line today, the Safety Preparation was also mentioned. I cannot help being moved by the warm community of values that is emerging between the Moderates and the Left Party. The meetings that we have had for eight months are not inspirational lectures. They are fact-heavy, and it takes an enormous amount of energy to work on these issues. But that is something we need to do in the long term to improve the quality of the judicial debate. We need to raise our level of knowledge in order to make better decisions. It is not always fun or even inspiring, but it is absolutely necessary to achieve the quality improvement that enables us to make better decisions in Parliament's Chamber.
i-e8e40301e832376e-710	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is part of the government base. On 29 August 2019 Johan Hedin's party leader Annie Lööf presented the Security Committee. Sweden needs a long-term security policy, says the press release. Eight months have passed now. Both Johan Hedin and I are members of this security committee. I have every ambition that we political parties should agree, that we can talk between the bloc boundaries, that we can know that we have different ideological points of entry, that we look at society in different ways, that we can refer to different academic theories. However, the last meeting of this Security Committee clearly showed the extent of the fragmentation of the work currently under way. Setting the requirement for us to find a common approach to the challenges of justice policy seems doomed to failure – unfortunately. I miss the leadership in the work of this security preparation. I miss the government, and I miss the Center Party. You promised me the work would be so good. I miss dialogue between the parties. What I think we need are completely new directives, a completely new starting point, where we can come up with realistic things that we can agree on instead of major societal challenges where we stand in different positions. Where is the leadership in this security preparation?
i-e8e40301e832376e-713	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the leadership of our work in our missions must come from within ourselves. We must stand by the energy needed to carry out good things. If you don't want to get along, you won't get along. For some, it is more important to have a conflict area in this area. I do not mean that Linda Westerlund Snecker is guilty of this, but it is clear that it is sometimes more important to have a conflict that creates opinion-driven drama than to actually move forward. The whole ambition of this security preparation was to create an infrastructure where we could put conflicts aside and actually contribute constructively from all sides. I myself have been affected by the rather difficult fact that one gets knowledge of life, which we have received in various stages of preparation, which challenges previous notions one has had, built a policy on and invested heavily in debates in parliament and in other places where one has defended positions and where one now understands that there was a missing piece of the puzzle. I understand that it is challenging, but it is also extremely developing. I hope and believe that Linda Westerlund Snecker can be a contributing part of this security preparation in the future. She is often in committee and in other discussions, and I have a great deal of exchange from Linda in many different ways. Let us use common forces to inject more energy. If we don't talk to each other, pick up the phone, Linda Snecker, and call for the next meeting, we can talk about how we can develop and make the preparation even better.
i-e8e40301e832376e-716	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Johan Hedin that the areas of conflict in justice policy are unnecessarily large. I am usually the one who constantly repeats in the debates that many people want insecurity and high criminality in order to implement their bizarre proposals on search zones or double penalties for gang criminals. I like the idea of this safety preparation. I like the ambition level. Therefore, I have gone in with life and desire in the work, and therefore I may have been extra deeply disappointed when we have gained amazing knowledge from Jerzy Sarnecki. I base much of my policy on his research from, for example, Brå, an authority that I think has a high level of competence. But now Johan Hedin says that we should blame a stressful work environment at a workplace for the fact that the individual should go into kbt treatment to learn to deeply breathe. I think the leadership needs to be bigger than that.
i-e8e40301e832376e-718	Mr President, I would like to That leadership is greater than deep breathing, we are in deep agreement. It is about accumulating the energy required to fulfill all the elements of our mission. We have a responsibility to do it ourselves. Of course, we may have expectations of others in the preparation. Mr President, I would like to This needs to be seen in a broader perspective. We must dare to challenge our familiar patterns and our insights. It sometimes becomes difficult for movements that, for example, blame all problems of crime on immigration, or for that matter on capitalism or profits in welfare, when one discovers in these contexts that the picture is something deeper than that. I think we all need to take a few deep breaths and try to work this down. The problems we are experiencing, and which Linda Westerlund herself raised in her speech, are not solved overnight. This requires an enormous long-term perspective. The safety preparation is a vessel to work with it, and I hope that we can do so successfully in the future.
i-e8e40301e832376e-721	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, light is lit for people who have been murdered. There are fundraisers for victims of crime. It works on a voluntary basis in crime victims' shelters, women's shelters and witness protection programmes. All of these are impressive efforts by people who want to ensure that the victims of crime still receive honour, support and help when we have failed to prevent crime and fight crime. The subject we have to debate today is about the core of democracy. It is also the core of welfare, I would remind you, because it is not the case that crime strikes blindly in any way. In all research – as can be seen from the work of the Safety Committee, which is being discussed extensively today – it is clear that the most vulnerable people are those most affected by crime. When insecurity grows, it's those people who lose the most chances of life... if not, at worst, life. However, as is well known, crime can also strike blindly. We'll bet 56 billion here. I think it could have been a little more; the Liberals would have liked to have seen greater efforts. We should also remember that we get some back through taxes from those who work in the judicial system. We get reduced healthcare costs, increased productivity and increased growth. The business climate will improve when crime decreases. Not least the crime against companies has increased in recent years. There's a lot of talk about how there's always more money. Yes, that is the case – we from the Liberals think that this budget, and these years of cooperation with the government, have borne some fruit. We see at least 10 billion gross in increased investments in the judicial authorities. These are important investments for the future. But more needs to come – more needs to come – and so is the Liberals' demand for the government in the forthcoming budgetary cooperation. These efforts must continue, and there must be more than the EUR 10 billion that are now being called in. It says in the budget bill, as we have all read, that we as citizens should be protected against criminal attacks on life, health, freedom, integrity and property. Then it becomes a rhetorical question, to which the Minister of Justice can answer later: How do you think it is going? But we are all, in fact, guilty of that answer. I believe that the balances to be struck between legal certainty and legal certainty, which are carefully addressed in the bill, must also be balanced against integrity. In fact, we could virtually eradicate crime on Tuesday, if we wanted to, with a bit of rapid legislation. It would be a rather unpleasant society, I would stress, but it is quite possible. When we do not want to go there, however, it is efforts on the authorities and relevant legislation that are our way. We also measure this business. We look at the National Safety Survey to see the experience, and we look at confidence in the authorities. We are looking at the number of reported offences, that is, the official statistics, but we are also looking at vulnerability. We know that not all crimes are reported. Let me make a few downfalls, Mr President. We know that there was a broad deterioration in the perceived security between 2014 and 2018. It has been bouncing up ever since, and I welcome that. I hope that this is due to the relevant efforts on the judicial system, despite the fact that very serious crimes have increased in scale. However, we can see it very serious that up to 36 percent of women last year experienced a fear of being subjected to crime, not least when they stayed outdoors. If we look at reported crimes we see that a lot of crime is decreasing but that fraud is increasing, not least thanks to digitalisation and the crimes online. A lot happens in the sequence of Corona. We can see that sexual crimes have increased, especially those with lower penalties. It is an increase that is very, very serious. We see the increase in gun violence, and so does the common danger of destruction. It may sound strange, but it's about explosions. We also see that deadly violence has increased. When you look at vulnerability, you can see that it is a very large group that suffers from crime, and a lot of crime. For example, the NTU shows that it is 6 percent who suffer 75 percent of the crimes. We also know that it is the same on the other side, among the perpetrators, that is, it is a very concentrated group of people who commit a large number of crimes. That is why, in other contexts, we are talking about the importance of these people being locked up for a longer period of rehabilitation and reflection on their activities. It is therefore both wine and water, Mr President, but in general it increases confidence in the law enforcement authorities. When you ask the Swedish people, you get the answer that their confidence in our authorities, who do a fantastic job, increases. The authorities also want to thank them this time of Christmas; in addition to all the non-profit forces that work, they want to thank all government officials who make fantastic contributions in general, not least during the Corona. We'll continue our efforts on the police. There are currently 3 000 under training, and more are going in. We will soon also break Swedish record in police per capita. We have already broken Swedish record in terms of number, but now it will soon be record even per capita. Hundreds of new policemen have come out to the regions these days. This is important. However, more authorities are crucial in the so-called justice chain. We see in the courts how the over-balances are increasing quite seriously, and the Minister for Justice, in particular, has a great responsibility for the serious situation. The government writes in the bill that this is being closely monitored, and more resources will be needed here. I have talked to many people around in our courthouses and not least in our court of appeal that the need for resources remains great. The prosecutors received a bit of rigid treatment in the bill, but as several Members have heard, an additional bill has been announced. Supplementary proposals are now very common; it is not only the case that there will be one in the spring, about a spring change budget, but now they come a little closer considering that we are dealing with and trying to face the consequences of Corona. The prison service will receive substantial subsidies, but it will not be enough for us to just build new ones. We also need to rebuild old premises, and we need to be prepared to check out Europe if there is overcapacity we can use. We must also ensure that more people who have committed crimes actually leave the country immediately. This is one way to reduce both the costs and the burden on the Prison Service. We are forced to invest heavily in legal counsels, which is a consequence of more crimes being cleared up. More are being taken to court, and there are more extensive negotiations and more complicated. We must therefore ensure that there are public assistants and lawyers who receive good compensation for their work. However, at the end of the year I would like to send a thought to the Bar Association that they really need to think about whether they need to sue in the stream. In fact, we have seen a worrying development where there is indeed a situation in which individual lawyers – a clear minority, of course – are misbehaving in the worst way and have quite different tasks from those intended by means of budgetary spending. We continue to develop Sis, the State Department Board. More can be said, Madam President, but I would like to conclude by putting a blow to the importance of keeping this together. We can make a lot of relevant legislation and efforts on the authorities. This is at least 10 billion gross during the term of office. But we also need to look around. It is not least about the social policy brush strokes – you know, school, the labour market, integration and jobs. People should be able to feel hope for the future and feel that they are part of the Sweden of opportunity. This will reduce pressure on law enforcement authorities and increase security. We need to strengthen international cooperation in every way, not least within the Nordic countries but also within European cooperation. Important negotiations are taking place here at European level these days. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Liberals wish their colleagues in the Committee on Justice and others present in this House a good and very well-deserved Christmas. I support the proposal.
i-e8e40301e832376e-745	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting debate this afternoon. In particular, I thank the Centre Party and the Liberals for the good cooperation we have had on the budget proposal that we are now going to decide on. I would also like to thank those of you who are taking part in the debate for good and constructive contributions. The debate has been a lot about gang crime, quite rightly. I'm also going to get into that theme at the end. But today I was going to start at a different end, with an issue that is at least as important as gang crime but which I think is getting too little space. It is an issue that none of the right-wing parties – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats – mentioned with one word in their speeches. Even Linda Westerlund Snecker didn't do it, which I thought she would. Maria Strömkvist did it. Johan Pehrson did it. What I'm talking about is men's violence against women. I was gonna start at that end. For the past three years, 48 women have been murdered by a man with whom a relationship has previously been established. It's almost a woman every three weeks. The murders have often been preceded by years – yes, perhaps decades – by assault, abuse, harassment and threats from the man but not infrequently also by suspicion and guilt from the outside world. Yeah, but if he's so mean, why doesn't she leave him? That's how it's been sounding. This is how you blame the victim, the woman who often tries to protect and protect not only herself but also her children. That approach is a betrayal of those women. I want to be very clear here. This government has two priorities in the area of criminal policy. One is to push back organised crime, which I shall return to shortly. The second is to combat men's violence against women, violence in close relations, and there it is honour-related violence. These two priorities are equivalent. When it comes to men's violence against women, I am very proud of what we have done since we took office six years ago. We've put a lot of money into the police. The police now have more money than ever and more employees than ever, and we have more police officers than ever. Police salaries have been raised. The police have got a modern organization with better technology, more cameras and better legal tools than ever before. This has also enabled an effort to be made against crimes in close relationships. This year 380 new investigators have been recruited, focusing particularly on sexual crimes, violence in close relationships, violence against children and honour-related crimes. This is a very important initiative in order to prosecute more of the perpetrators. We have also tightened the penalties in these areas. With the consent law of 2018, our most important criminal law reform last term, Sweden received not only the strictest sexual crime law ever but also a modern legislation based on the obvious that sex should be voluntary and that everything else is an abuse. We are now pleased to see that several countries want to comply with that legislation. This year, we sharpened the penalty for murder. In particular, we pointed to the murder of a loved one, who is to give life imprisonment to an increasing extent. When it comes to honour crimes, we introduced a new penalty and exit ban at the mid-year end to protect children who are at risk of being married away or genitally stymied. This legislation has been in place for less than six months, and the exit ban has already been applied 14 times. So it has already saved many children from a terrible fate. When it comes to buying sex and prostitution and trafficking in human beings, which is a different form of exploitation of women and children, we have changed the law so that anyone who buys sex from a woman exposed to human trafficking can now be punished also for rape and not just for sex purchases. That, of course, gives a much higher scale of punishment. I don't think anyone could have missed how the police during this year have turned up the pressure against human trafficking and sex purchases. It has been noticed not least after some celebrity and some politician got caught. That's the way it's gonna go. It's a reminder that the police are chasing these networks and that no one is above the law. We have looked at the police, at the penalties, at human trafficking but also at the victims. We have made sure that crime victims' shelters and women's shelters now have more money to move with than ever before, and we have made sure that those who have been victims of sexual crime now have a plaintiff's assistant at the time of the report – much earlier than was the practice. In addition, we have increased the possibility of putting a anklet on the men who are persecuting their former and have violated the ban on contact. This is just a sample of everything we've done in this area. There is much more to be said, but I must also be able to tell you about what we are going to do next in the coming years. We will, of course, proceed with increased efforts by the police and prosecutors, but also with more criminal law. We will tighten the penalties for sexual crimes further. We're doing a review of the penalty scales there. This applies, among other things, to sexual harassment and rape. We're going to remove a fine from the penalty scale for buying sex. It is also part of the review. We are going to introduce a special offence of honour, with a special scale of punishment, following the pattern of the crime of women's peace that we Social Democrats introduced 20 years ago and which has been a tremendous success in bringing up the scale of penalties in this respect. With a particular offence of honour, we will also have a considerably stricter scale of penalties for those crimes. We will develop a new national strategy against violence against children. In this connection, we will also make proposals for a new child peace crime. This means that if a man beats his wife in front of his children, the children will also be regarded as victims of crime and thus, among other things, be able to get compensation from their father. It is reasonable because, in my opinion, the man in that situation is committing a crime not only against the woman but also against his own children. Such a man then fails his most important duty in life, which is to give his children a safe upbringing, and he should bear responsibility for that. That is the meaning of the new child peace crime, which we will be able to go to the Law Council with at the beginning of next year and then to the Riksdag with in March. Madam President, I would like I have talked a long time about what we have done and what we are going to do, especially in terms of law enforcement and punishment. But we all understand that if we are really going to get anywhere, then we must also work much more proactively. If men's violence against women is to stop, then it is men who must change. Here we need to have a serious discussion on how it can be that it is men who commit almost all crimes against women. But not only that, it is also men who commit almost all crimes against men. In short, it is men who commit almost all crimes. Nearly 95 percent of all in prison are men. Of course you have to ask questions about it. Is that a law of nature? Does it have to be that way? Why is that? And what can we do about it? It is, of course, about long-term work; it must start in childhood. Violent boys become violent men. Here is the bridge over to what you have been talking about all afternoon, namely gang crime and what we see in some of the affected areas. The shootings and explosions we see now and organised crime are the result of structures established long ago. What we are doing now, when we are working hard against the gangs, Sweden should have done long ago. This was not done at the time, and so these structures could grow strong. It's getting harder to control them now. It will be more expensive and will take longer, but it will be possible. However, in order for us to succeed in this, we must not only take the tougher steps, but also step up the pace of integration further. Our reforms in the last parliamentary term meant that new arrivals could get to work much faster than in the alliance years; I believe that the start-up period for new arrivals was almost halved during the last parliamentary term. Social security benefits fell. This is just one example. This is a good thing, and it must continue. However, we also need to see what standards, values and social conditions are at the root of crime. The exact gender pattern I spoke of earlier is also reflected in the vulnerable areas and in this type of crime. It is the boys who are drawn into gang crime; it is hardly ever the girls. It's more the opposite – it often goes pretty well for the girls. They do well in school, get good grades and can make that class trip and break up from the oppression and limitations of class society. But their brothers often fare much worse. Here we have to ask ourselves what standards, values and expectations these boys are growing up with and how we can influence and change this so that it simply goes better for them. Here, I mean, Sweden has, after all, quite good conditions. Sweden is basically a welfare state based on the idea of general welfare. In order to prevent crime, welfare must be strong; that is my firm opinion. There must be a good school, good social services, good leisure activities and good childcare and maternity care no matter where you live in Sweden, and this must reach everyone. It must not be like Hjällbo in Gothenburg, which I visited a few months ago. It was an otherwise very good visit; I met many lovely children, teachers and leaders. But I was told that in Gothenburg, children of the unemployed do not get any leisure activities after school, although it is perhaps these very children who need it most. After school, children are divided up — the children whose parents have a job are allowed to go to jail; the children who have unemployed parents are allowed to go home. In the worst case, they end up hanging out in the square with older people that they absolutely shouldn't be around. It is the boys who end up there; it is very rarely girls. Why is this so in Gothenburg and in many other municipalities? These are municipal decisions, but all political decisions can be changed. Politics is also important in this regard. We are now making huge efforts to fight crime on the part of the state. No one can doubt this government's determination to fight the gangs anymore. Let's put money down. We'll tighten the penalties. Let's set up cameras. We fill prisons with the gang criminals, and we build more prisons, which several of you have been inside. But we also need to break the new recruitment. For this to work, the municipalities must now, in my opinion, respond to the crime prevention work and invest in schools in the affected areas, as well as in social services, in Fritis and in sports, music, culture, theatre and anything else that raises these areas. I now ask the municipalities to do so. By the way, I am not asking – I practically demand that they do so in this situation, not least in view of the fact that I know that the local government sector is going over 40 billion in surplus this year. Then there must be scope for crime prevention. That is the only way, Madam President, in the long term we can manage both to fight crime and to combat the causes of crime.
i-e8e40301e832376e-778	Madam President, I would like It paints for Christmas; no one has missed it. Another year that we can add to the documents has passed in this House. For this government, it is not just a year we can add to the documents, but it is actually six years. Time is fast in politics. It has been six years since Sweden got a red-green government, and that's, of course, one must say, a very long time in a political life. Many decisions have been taken. There's been a lot of investigations. There are many meetings that have been held. I'm sure that's a lot of it. The question you can ask yourself just when a year has passed is: How is it really going? And what has happened during these six years? What are the results? I imagine that the Minister of Justice often thinks about these issues. At least I hope so. Otherwise, I can help. I can see that 2020 seems to be another year of dark records. The shootings are breaking record this year. The number of dead in shootings also beats a record. Mortal stabbing beats a record. The number of people in gang-criminal environments beats record. The uncertainty in Swedish society is breaking record, according to the national security survey. I wonder, Madam President, whether Morgan Johansson is satisfied with developments in his area over the last six years. And what responsibility does he have as Minister of Justice, and ultimately as Head of the Ministry of Justice ever since 2014, for the security crisis that Sweden is experiencing right now, right here and right now?
i-e8e40301e832376e-784	Madam President, I would like I note that I represent a government that has done more in this area than any other government has. I believe that during my six years I have gone to Parliament with over 200 legislative proposals, and everyone has gone through. We've tightened the penalties for about fifty crimes. We are now putting more money into the police than ever before. We've got more cops than ever, and we've got more cameras up than ever. We also have better legal tools for the police than ever to get to these gangs. We have also made sure that we are able to put a lot of those who used to run around with guns in the city; now they are instead in jail or in prison. Last year, courts sentenced over 10,000 prison years — an increase of 30%. I think everyone understands that these are problems that go quite far back in time and that these are structures that got stuck in Sweden in the mid-90s and that were not suffocated in their infancy then. What we are doing now should have been done at that time. I would like to remind Johan Forssell that it is not just about coping with all the law enforcement elements. When I talk to the police in the affected areas, they often say three things. They say they need to be more. They say they need better tools – it's about cameras, punishments, detention facilities and wiretaps. They also say one more thing: Keep in mind that this is not just about us, but for this to work, we must also break the new recruitment. Then we must ensure that school and leisure activities work, that social services are strong and that there is a future for young people. That's exactly where the Moderates are completely empty-handed. You may have policy on repressive measures – we do too – but you have no policy to break the new recruits to the gangs.
i-e8e40301e832376e-789	Madam President, I would like That's how it always sounds. Whatever the issue, whatever the problem, whatever the area, it's always someone else's fault. It's always some other government's fault. Of course, we would have done more sooner, but that, Madam President, is a very bad argument for not doing today what it takes to overcome the problems. In fact, it is a little strange that at a time when the shootings, the number of dead in gang crime, the deadly knife violence and insecurity are breaking record, the Minister of Justice does not notice any crisis insight. Instead, he points his finger to other parties and places responsibility on others and then tells about the number of legislative proposals he has tabled. If the government's policy has been so successful, why does Sweden look like it does? I hope the Attorney General gets a Merry Christmas. I also hope that he will take some of that time to think about his own responsibility. Six years is a long time to have been Minister of Justice, and that's a big responsibility – you shouldn't run away from that, you have to take it.
i-e8e40301e832376e-792	Madam President, I would like I think most people understand that there is a fundamentally ideological difference here. I say that in order to succeed in the great task of breaking gang crime, you should go in with the resources that we go in with: with police officers, with demands and with penalties and all the repression that we do. We will, and so will we. And there's no big difference between our parties here. The big difference, Madam President, is how we view social policy and welfare policy. You Moderates run a policy that increases the gaps, and you don't care about spending on social services and school. As soon as you have the opportunity, you will actually cut back and remove resources for this. You did so as late as autumn 2018, when you trumped through a budget here together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Then you removed the special investments in the affected areas in order to break the new recruitment. There is an ideological difference here. We will continue to deliver in the repressive parts, but we will never ever forget that good schools, good leisure activities and everything else around these young people are also needed to break recruitment.
i-e8e40301e832376e-796	Madam President, I would like We are supposed to be protected from criminal attacks on life, health, freedom, integrity and property. My question to the Minister of Justice is how he thinks it's going and what else we need to do. That's a question. But what I think we definitely need to do is invest even more in international cooperation, and that is what I really want to ask the Minister for Justice about. The revelation and breaking of Encrochat has been a fantastic success. The French police, together with Europol, have revealed a gigantic havoc of very gross criminals high up the food chain. The police have now taken hundreds into custody only in Sweden because of this, and this is a development that we are seeing throughout Europe. We know that the use of secret data reading has been very important in this. It has been applied in the past in other European countries but only recently in Sweden. But it is the cooperation I am looking for, Madam President. How does the Minister of Justice want to strengthen cooperation at European level with Europol and reasonably through participation in Eppo? I would like to remind the Minister of Justice that because of the slowness that has prevailed, it is now only Sweden, Hungary and Poland – an odd collection to hang out in – that is outside this. What does the Minister of Justice intend to do to strengthen Europol and our entry into Eppo in order to combat more fruitfully the rough networks which are, of course, the basis? We have to hit the top, while we support people so they don't get cannon fodder in these gangs. It's a double-crossing that's required. What's the answer, Minister of Justice?
i-e8e40301e832376e-801	Madam President, I would like International and European cooperation must, of course, be further developed. As regards the question of Eppo, a review of how Sweden should react to it is under way. It is important that Eppo, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, does not affect the cooperation that has existed within Eurojust, which is, of course, the prosecutor of the cooperation between the prosecutors that has been extremely important for Sweden during the many years that we have participated in it. Otherwise, I believe that we need to develop bilateral cooperation in particular much more. I can give you some examples. There are a number of countries from which international theft leagues operate and which, of course, account for a very large part of the burglaries in Sweden. Almost half of all burglaries in Sweden are committed by international theft leagues. Where do they come from? From the European Union, we are talking about Lithuania, Poland and Romania. Then, I think, we are continuing to develop bilateral cooperation between the Swedish police and Romanian, Lithuanian and Polish police. It may also be that changes need to be made at political level, for example when some of these burglars are arrested and we judge them. They should preferably not serve a sentence in Sweden. We need our prison seats for our own criminals. We do not need to have people in our prisons who do not know Swedish and who will not even be rehabilitated in Sweden once, but then it is better that they serve their sentences in their home countries. We are therefore pursuing this issue bilaterally with those countries, so far with the most success with Romania, which has increased the quality of their prisons to such an extent that they can now receive the clients who come from Sweden.
i-e8e40301e832376e-806	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I share the view that it is really strange that we in the European Union have freedom of movement, with, of course, quite a large exception due to the pandemic or for other reasons. It is clear that people who have come here, committed crimes and been convicted will be sent back to their home countries, whether they come from Romania, Angola or Australia – the latter is not so common, but it matters less which country they come from. It's their problem that prisons are too bad. What we can do here, Madam President, is to change the rule that at least six months' imprisonment should be served in order to send out the serious criminal, who probably has not only stolen a toaster but has stolen quite a lot.
i-e8e40301e832376e-810	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's exactly what we're doing. When we have our government dialogues with the Prison Service, there are two issues that we have on the agenda every time. One is about how we expand and what new prisons and detention centres we're going to have. The second is about how we ensure that more of those we have in Swedish prisons can instead serve their sentences in their home countries. Sometimes there have been problems in the authorities of other countries that have taken a long time. But sometimes there have also been problems with us – that it has taken a very long time and been very bureaucratic. That is why we amended the law of 1 July this year and have imposed a special urgency requirement precisely for this type of transfer. I have also told the Prison Service that if we ask for transfers to any country and it bounces there, that they do not want to receive their own citizens, we want a list of them. Then I'll take it directly with representatives of their countries. That is how we work bilaterally with these countries.
i-J6t3hu2TzvjzKS9Nfzm7sL	Madam President, I would like In his earlier speech, Johan Pehrson stated that the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office is being treated rigidly in the Government's budget. Does Morg a n Johansson share the view that the Prosecution Authority has been treated rigidly? And if Morgan Johansson agrees with this, how should we look at the treatment of the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency? The Swedish Financial Crime Agency works to combat economic crime, which is socially harmful, threatens welfare systems and confidence in democracy and distorts competition. It is a work that is now being undermined by the government's budget, because according to the agency the need is SEK 70 million and the new funds for the Swedish Economic Crime Authority in the government's budget is zero SEK. The impact, according to the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency itself, is on the reduction of opportunities to deal with organised attacks on the tax system, right-of-occupancy fraud, pension fraud and money laundering from drug sales. EBM's particularly demanding cases have doubled since 2011, and double prosecutors are needed to conduct preliminary investigations. But the government does nothing to ease their burden, since they do not add a single extra crown when the agency has requested 70 million dollars. What consequences did the government see in the assessment you must have made when you decided to spend zero crowns on the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency? Is it the case that the government missed the request of the Ecocrime Authority, or simply ignored it? I would like an answer to that, Madam President.
i-e8e40301e832376e-817	Madam President, I would like We are making a huge impact on almost the whole of the judiciary. However, we must assess the financial position of each authority separately. There's been a big discussion about the District Attorney's Office. But the DA's office has gone with a surplus of five years in a row. They have not spent their money and are going even this year with 40 million in surplus. We are talking about taxpayers' money, and we see an authority that does not even consume the resources it has received but goes with surpluses, perhaps we should consider whether the agency needs to get additional money right now or whether we can wait a little to see what the development of resources looks like. That's what happened with the DA's office. The Prosecution Office has grown in our years, and the number of employees has increased by over ten percent. So how to say that the Prosecution Authority is stepmotherly treated when it grows and goes with surplus, I don't really understand. Of course, we are prepared to continue to follow both the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency. If you use the money and you need to make additional reinforcements and hire more, we will of course have to look at it, and then we will do so together with the two parties we work with on the budget, the Centre Party and the Liberals. But, as I said, the Prosecution Authority has gone with a surplus of five years in a row and also this year.
i-e8e40301e832376e-823	Madam President, I would like It is very worrying that the Minister of Justice does not understand the Prosecution Authority's need for long-term funding. In fact, the Prosecution Office's part of the judiciary has decreased in recent years. The increase in total is largely due to the alliance budget and the M-KD budget that went through here. This is where the big money for the District Attorney's Office was. I also asked about the Ecocrime Agency. They asked for 70 million crowns and received zero crowns. It is about combating violations of our welfare systems. I hope it comes as no surprise to the Minister of Justice that the need for this is very great. Yet this authority's desire for 70 million is ignored and not a single crown is given extra. I did not get an answer to whether the government missed this or simply ignored it. I want that answer.
i-e8e40301e832376e-826	Madam President, I would like The answer to the question is, of course, that we are following developments in both these authorities. But we must constantly assess whether the money is being spent or not. If you need additional money to expand, you will get it if you can show that need. But again, this is taxpayers' money, and then we have to be a little careful about how they are used. Andreas Carlson says that the Prosecution Authority has grown because they got more money in 2018. I just said that the Prosecution Authority has increased by 10 percent since 2014 and has gone with surplus five years in a row. As far as I know, M, KD and SD have not ruled in these five years, but we have essentially.
i-e8e40301e832376e-828	Madam President, I would like I noted that the number of minutes the Minister of Justice was in the speaker's chair was greater than the number of completed murders in Malmö in the last ten years, i.e. 4 murders out of 57. It says something about the fact that it may not be the number of words that matter in reality, but that it is the policy that matters. The bad figure for the number of solved murders is because very few individuals want to talk to the police because they risk their or their relatives' lives. Unfortunately, it has also been shown that some people have been shot, threatened or subjected to explosions and then silenced. The government says it is prepared to proceed with one of the two proposals investigated about Crown Witnesses and anonymous witnesses and wants to proceed with a Crown Witness system. That, of course, is progress. However, it needs to be severely punished for gang-related crime in order for a Crown Witness system to be attractive to gang members who choose to talk to the police and rat on their cronies. This must, of course, be accompanied by a great deal of relief, and it is difficult to achieve at low levels. Is the government also prepared to go forward with heavy penalties for gang-related crime so that the Crown Witness system can bear fruit? Is the government just as clearly prepared to come forward with the proposal for anonymous witnesses? It would help the orderly and law - abiding public to prosecute crimes together with the law - enforcement authorities, what people today do not dare even though they may have seen a murder below their own balcony.
i-e8e40301e832376e-833	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the situation in Malmö that I know well. Malmö is an example of the fact that the increased pressure and the various new methods against gang criminals have apparently reduced both shootings and blasts. In social media, Malmö used to be painted as a horror example, not least from the right. There is no longer any mention of Malmö in the same way as the development there has gone in a different direction thanks to the police work done and that they have worked in a different way against gang criminals. In the project Stop shooting, which will be evaluated in a few months, you take in some of the gang criminals and say that if you continue with this we authorities will hunt you with everything we have, but if you drop out we have programs for what gives you an opportunity to leave gang crime. This has meant that more people in both Malmö and Stockholm want to quit. I believe a lot in this way of working. I believe in a crown witness system, and the Social Democrats have been pushing this for many years and going to elections on it. Now it can finally come in place. The investigator, Counsellor Stefan Johansson, has seen that in other countries, not least in the other Nordic countries, this is considered very effective. Therefore, I am excited to look forward to the investigation's proposal. There is a review of penalties related to gang crime, and here we also come up with proposals when that result comes.
i-e8e40301e832376e-837	Madam President, I would like The government often says that we all agree on the penalties that are being imposed and that much has been done. But there are great differences between the opposition and the Red-Green Government. We are not satisfied with penalties with minimum levels of six to nine months for serious violent crimes, but we want to go much further than that because we understand the value of incapacitation. The concrete problem I mention with anonymous witnesses shows that there is a big difference. It took seven years for the Social Democrats to get to an investigation into Crown Witnesses. They included it in the 2014 election campaign based on the 2013 Congress Programme. It is unsatisfactory that, as a party, it takes as long as seven years to come up with a proposal once you are in government. How long, then, will it take the government to come to the conclusion that anonymous witnesses are an important key to tackling all today's unsolved murders?
i-e8e40301e832376e-840	Madam President, I would like Crown witnesses are effective. Anonymous witnesses are something else and for many reasons much more problematic. In the countries where such a system is used, it is almost never used. Why? Because the criteria for being allowed to use it are so high. Therefore, at least so far, it seems to be only one blow in the air. If you are to have a system of anonymous witnesses, the defender must also be allowed to use anonymous witnesses, not just the prosecutor. If the defender suddenly invokes an anonymous witness who places the suspect in a place completely different from the prosecutor, it must also be included. This means that this question is much more complicated than that of Crown Witnesses. But we'll see what the investigator finds out in this part, too, and then we'll come up with penalties. The difference between us is that we also fund the Prison Service, in a completely different way from what the Swedish Democrats have done when they have the chance to control the budget.
i-e8e40301e832376e-842	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is thinking of me and my party and of the Minister of Justice's own great commitment to men's violence against women. I am pleased that you devoted such a great deal to this in your speech, Morgan Johansson. It's important. In the budget, the Left Party is proposing a feminist package, simply because we see that there are still lack of knowledge and prejudices. There are things in the judicial system that are not yet working. We therefore propose the development of skills throughout the judiciary. We are also proposing a national resource centre against prostitution and human trafficking, and that is something that I think the Minister of Justice should look a little extra at. I would also like to say, please, that we in the opposition pushed through the removal of the fine for sex purchases and that it is now part of the investigation. That's great. I'm with you in this fight, Morgan Johansson. What I'm not with you on is the government's great disregard for how economic inequality affects women. It is about how class differences and economic inequality create insecurity and how poverty and exclusion create this dangerous macho culture that we know drives children and young boys into the claws of gang criminals, where they are exploited. Sweden is the country where inequality increases most in the Western world. There the government does not take the great responsibility that is needed. If we reduce economic inequality, we will also reduce crime.
i-e8e40301e832376e-847	Madam President, I would like To be honest, I don't really think there's anything I have to object to in what Linda Westerlund Snecker just said. I am happy to look at the proposals to further advance positions on men's violence against women, because, as I said, we have two priorities. One is organised crime, and the other is violence in close relations and men's violence against women. The crimes of honour are also part of this. These are both equal to us. I am sometimes disturbed by the fact that the criminal policy debate is almost all about gang crime. I understand it looks like that as long as we have the shootings and the blasts and all this drama. But we also have another drama: the one that is within the walls of the home and that is often not allowed to take the place at all in the debate that it should be allowed to take. That's why I want to mark this today. We also agree fundamentally that economic gaps are at risk of driving greater social stress and problems, of course, and of leading to more people getting into crime. That is why we must always ensure that we continue to strengthen welfare policy systems, but also that people have jobs, not least in the vulnerable areas, so that they can support themselves. I noted during the last parliamentary term how, with the policy we pursued at the time, we could halve the time for a newcomer to enter the labour market in relation to the policy pursued during the alliance years. I think it was very important to be able to invest in education, in the public sector and not least in the local government sector. I note that the local government sector is now running at over 40 billion in surplus as a result of the large increases that we are making to the local government sector. In doing so, we should also be able to use this money to prevent crime and to ensure that people have access to livelihoods and jobs.
i-e8e40301e832376e-853	Madam President, I would like To break up the oppression of class society was what the Minister of Justice said in his speech. What is so amusing is that we are so much in agreement on the basic problem, on the feminist analysis and on the socialist analysis of what the economy of society does to people. Ideologically, we're the same. Rhetorically, we're alike. But at the moment, there could not be greater differences in substance between the Left Party and the Social Democratic Government. What the Social Democratic Government puts forward in substance policy does not reduce the economic divide, but it makes the elite richer and the poor poorer. Sweden is being pulled apart, and that is why it hurts so much to see the work done by the Social Democratic Government.
i-e8e40301e832376e-856	Madam President, I would like We may have similar class experiences, I don't know. I heard Linda Westerlund Snecker's mother was a teacher. My dad was a sheet metal worker. So I know very well what this is basically about, that is to say, being able to make a class trip. It is simply a question of having the opportunity, through the welfare state and all that we have built up for many decades, to make a class trip. It provides opportunities for young people to move forward. Basically, we share our view. But, of course, I do not share the view that we are now doing something else. Look what we have done during the Corona crisis, where we strengthen the municipal sector, i.e. school, social services and leisure activities! That is all that is happening in the welfare of the municipalities, and we are strengthening it with very large amounts of money. As has been said, the surplus is EUR 40 billion this year in the local government sector. And look at how we strengthen the unemployment fund for those who risk losing their job during the crisis! We do so in a way where we really make sure we try to take care of the social situation that may arise. We will continue to fight to break down the class distinctions.
i-e8e40301e832376e-859	Madam President, I would like Sweden 2020 has not only been characterised by a pandemic but, unfortunately, also by a series of high-profile acts of violence. A 12-year-old girl was shot dead while out walking the dog. A young man in Kiruna was stabbed to death on his way home from work. It is difficult to take in and can never be accepted. At the same time, much is happening in secret that does not receive the same attention. Every three weeks, an assailant kills a woman with whom he has or has had a relationship. Violence in close relations has increased during the pandemic. Local security managers report that employees are exposed to threats and harassment and that people associated with organised crime are trying to influence government decisions. In a time like this, marked by darkness, I still think there is reason to look at what is good. In Malmö, the shootings have gone down three years in a row. Here you can highlight Stop shooting! and the work of defectors. When you power up, you can get results. The efforts in police training are now evident as we receive long lines of newly graduated police officers into active service. Madam President, I would like I would like to focus on two approaches that are important for creating a secure society in the long term. One is to follow the money, and the other is early action. Following the money is about systematically working to detect smuggling, welfare crimes, tax offences, fraud and all the ways organised crime makes money. For this we need law enforcement bureaucrats who have the means to put an end to this. Whoever has smuggling as an income doesn't care whether the money comes from puppies or weapons. The largest arms strike in Malmö this year was started with food supervision. A suspicion of illegal make-up struck the bangers. This shows how society needs to pool all our collective resources and work together. Here again, Malmö is a good example. They have this work systematically, with cooperation between the municipality and state authorities. This is something the Green Party sees that we want to spread throughout the country. As far as prevention is concerned, the police are very clear that they are important. It is about efforts from child care, school and social services. They are extremely important. When the newly graduated police officers coming out of the Police College move out, they want to do what they do where crime is committed. When they meet a young person who is going into crime, they should have a field assistant or social security secretary call who comes and does what is outside the police's work. The really early efforts when the children are young are important. That is why some things in this budget are particularly important to me. It is about investments in preschools in vulnerable areas and in children's and young people's psychiatry. It is also about the work of children who are victims of violence. We strengthen the drop-out activities and the quality of Sis for the children who are being cared for. This is extremely important in order to strengthen society in the long term so that we build security and use society's collective resources in a common pool of forces for security.
i-e8e40301e832376e-872	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that, in addition to the pandemic, Sweden has very big problems. We have high unemployment, serious crime and a serious security crisis. In the Moderate Budget Movement, we therefore focus on Sweden being prepared for the pandemic to get even worse. We also focus on breaking unemployment and combating crime. Now we are going to debate Category 7 on international aid. Sweden has had and has a very large amount of aid. The government's budget prioritises spending almost twice as much money on international aid as on the police. In 20 years, Sweden's aid budget has tripled. In 2019, Sweden spent almost three times as much on aid as the average in the Dac countries. In comparison with other countries, Sweden stands out by spending unusually large sums and large amounts of aid on untied nuclear aid, i.e. direct contributions to the central budgets of various UN organisations. Looking at the average annual contribution to the UN system in 2015– 2017, you can see that Swedish taxpayers were the fifth largest donor in the world. Only the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan spend more money on the UN system than do Swedish taxpayers. Madam President, I would like The world's needs are very great, and they are becoming even greater in the wake of the pandemic. Sweden should take global responsibility, and aid is an important tool. However, it is not reasonable to spend almost twice as much on international aid as on the police. Of course, each country chooses its own priorities, but it is interesting to compare us with others. Then, as I said, Sweden stands out. For example, Sweden spends more money on aid than Canada, despite the fact that Canada is a three times as big an economy as Sweden. Madam President, I would like Sweden, as I started with, has huge problems at home, and the state budget is not infinite. That is why we prioritise differently and reduce aid in relation to the Government's proposals in favour of, for example, increased efforts in the justice chain. Having said that, aid is important. We will be involved in taking responsibility in the world and do our part to contribute to the achievement of the goals of Agenda 2030, including through our international development cooperation. But we are not going to send money undemandingly, but we need to spend time and effort on monitoring that our aid goes to what it is intended for and that it leads to results. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that the tax resources spent on aid are used in the best possible way. Regular reports of irregularities and corruption scandals testify that this is not the case. Today, Sweden is one of the largest donors to a number of UN agencies, and Swedish taxpayers in many cases account for significant parts of support for the organisations' central budgets. Sweden would need to reduce the number of cooperation agencies in order to have better control and focus its influence on how the aid is used. We believe that more focused aid is important, that priority is given and that Sweden cannot do everything. Madam President, I would like Aid is important for many people, but it is not aid that drives development. The market economy, ownership and free trade form the basis for development and sustainable prosperity. Development aid should help self-help, and if it helps self-help, it also means that it will one day have to end. This applies to development aid. Unfortunately, the second part of the aid, humanitarian aid or emergency aid, as it is also called, will always be needed. Here Sweden has an obligation to participate and contribute. Emergency aid is at the heart of this aid. It aims to prevent death and relieve distress, and it will reach the most vulnerable people. Despite the obvious value of humanitarian aid, it is a small proportion of Swedish aid today. We want humanitarian aid and development cooperation to a greater extent to work together, but also to increase humanitarian aid as a proportion of Swedish aid. This will be particularly important in the wake of the pandemic as humanitarian needs in the world increase. Madam President, I would like The aid debate today is characterised almost exclusively by the 1% target. It's unfortunate. The Moderates do not support the principle of budgeting that 1% of GDP should go to aid. Instead, we want to provide aid with a four-year financial framework setting out the direction and allocation of aid over the next four years. In this way, aid would be provided with performance targets, not payment targets. As far as development aid is concerned, we will provide support for the type of project that is in line with Swedish values, and the control should be very good. No Swedish tax revenue should disappear in corruption or end up in the pockets of undemocratic leaders who do not respect the principles of the rule of law, democracy or human rights. Nor should we give aid to countries that, through their actions, create problems in Sweden. Countries that, for example, do not receive their own citizens who have been expelled from Sweden contribute through their actions to creating problems here, and then the aid to these countries should be reviewed. That would be perfectly reasonable, and I think that most people find it strange that this does not happen today. Madam President, I would like The moderates' starting point is that development cooperation should focus on what is effective, what Sweden has been historically good at and what is in Swedish interests. Thematic areas that the Moderates see as particularly important in addition to an increased focus on emergency aid are global health – for example vaccinations – climate and environment, gender equality – for example girls' right to education and SRHR – and institution building. For example, through development cooperation, to assist with knowledge about building up functioning surveying facilities to strengthen ownership and make it clear who owns which land can be examples of development cooperation that is more about knowledge sharing than large transfers and thus does not have to be very expensive for taxpayers but which can make a big difference. Madam President, I would like Politics is about prioritising, and Sweden's budget is not infinite. We can do a lot, but we can't do everything. What we do, however, is to do the right thing. In a world where the needs are endless but the resources are not, it is important that we ensure that Swedish taxpayers' money goes to the aid efforts where they are most useful and where we can see results. Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates are of course behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation number 5.
i-e8e40301e832376e-889	Madam President, I would like If the Moderates were to rule, the aid would be reduced by 15.7 billion. This is more than the specific aid for health, education, SRHR, gender equality, agriculture, water and sanitation, environmental protection, the World Food Programme and the Global Fund against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria – this despite the fact that a pandemic is sweeping the world with terrible consequences, mainly for those who have the very worst, and despite the fact that the report after report shows that Swedish prosperity is world leader. Our world is connected. What we do locally in Sweden gives impacts globally and vice versa. The tax cuts advocated by the Moderates mainly benefit those who have a lot here in Sweden and mean that there will be less aid to those who barely get food to eat, who have hardly any medical care to count on or who are imprisoned for protesting against those in power. To do as the Moderates are not only tone-deaf but completely reality-averted. Magdalena Schröder claims that the Moderates can do more with less and then try to get rid of us with fine phrases. So have the Moderates done here in Sweden with the welfare, and we all know how it has gone. My first question is: How much richer are the rich to get at the cost of the world's poor getting worse before the Moderates are satisfied? My second question is about the trumped-up way of talking down something that actually works. According to Schröder, control of aid must be increased, although reports show that Swedish aid is the best in the world and that it actively works with controls. I understand that this is being done with the aim of blacking out aid in order to make it easier to cut back on it. But I wonder if Mr Schröder has thought about what it means for society as a whole when politicians use such methods to get the voters out of the way. What does it do with society's confidence when politicians choose to ignore research and instead come up with inappropriate reasons to discredit something that works well?
i-e8e40301e832376e-894	Madam President, I would like I thank Yasmine Posio for her questions. We in the Moderates spend a great deal of money in this area in our budget. We have said that aid for the next four years will be provided with a four-year financial framework of 160 billion. It is very much money, and we think this is an important area. But we think that today's budgeting principle, where you first decide how much money you should spend on the area and then start thinking about how to spend it, is wrong. Instead, we want a debate on focus and then we want to give funding. That would be better for aid. The state's budget is not infinite. Politics is about prioritising. We have a serious security crisis in our country. 2020 will be one of the darkest years in Swedish history. The number of shootings is record high. There's been almost a shooting a day and a blast or a bombing a week. Children who are asleep have their homes blown up. A bomb has detonated in a doctor's office. We have a serious security crisis in our country. The number of police officers in external service is also smaller now. We need to invest in security, and politics is about prioritising. As I said, Sweden stands out in terms of control by spending unusually large amounts of money on nuclear aid. Nuclear aid is important, and many organisations need a certain proportion of nuclear aid in order to be able to carry out their activities. But Sweden is in top five among the core donors of 17 UN organisations. In fact, I do not think it is reasonable that Sweden is at the top five among contributors when it comes to core support to so many organisations. We should focus our assistance in order to gain better control and follow-up. Doesn't Yasmine Posio think so too?
i-e8e40301e832376e-898	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I almost admire Magdalena Schröder's attempt to talk around my questions. Those who dig The Moderates' politics will surely believe what Schröder says. But stubbornly claiming that the Moderates can do more with less money falls on their absurdity. You can't get more vaccine without paying for it. You can't bet more on SRHR unless you cut back on something else. Quality costs. Not only do the Moderates want to reduce aid, but they also want to put more emphasis on the control of aid which is already being controlled on the cross and the cross and receives praise. It's like I said, trumping. So Schröder still owes the answer. How much worse will the world's poor have to get it for the rich to be rich re before the Moderates are satisfied?
i-e8e40301e832376e-900	Madam President, I would like It is a fact that there is a huge discrepancy between the money we pay out in aid and the money we spend on control and follow-up. There, too, Sweden stands out. In comparison with our Nordic neighbours and the UK, it can be noted that Sweden spends at least on control and follow-up, or administrative costs, as a proportion of the aid framework. That can of course sound very positive – everyone wants to keep the unnecessary administrative costs down. No one wants to pay for unnecessary bureaucracy. However, if there is too much discrepancy between the money we pay out and the money we spend on control and follow-up, we do not have sufficient control of the aid, and that is demonstrated by the corruption scandals that have taken place.
i-e8e40301e832376e-901	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder! One can only be amazed at the amazing way in which the Moderates really do mark the most inappropriate opportunity in history to cut Swedish aid by a third. For decades, poverty in the world has decreased. Efforts to reduce maternal and infant mortality have been effective. More, especially girls, have had access to schooling. This has been financed by aid. Hans Rosling called this the miracle of aid. Now we are in a debate with one of Sweden's largest parties, which also denotes itself as a government-supporting party. According to the World Bank, 40 to 60 million people are at risk of extreme poverty as a result of the global pandemic. The ILO fears that some 200 million jobs will disappear. The World Food Programme predicts that an additional 130 million people will suffer acute food shortages as a result of the pandemic. Probably a total of 265 million people worldwide will suffer from food shortages. We're probably facing a famine whose husband we haven't seen in 50 years. Swedish aid is considered to be in absolute world class, and Magdalena Schröder knows that. That is the only question we can put aside. My question to Magdalena Schröder is: How do the Moderates manage to take their backs on the Swedish Democrats on this particular issue in this particular time in our history, when we risk a collapse among the countries that we have been working for so long to lift out of poverty?
i-RknfGNG6R2Lewj3LcriJhx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for the questions! The world's needs are very great. That is why we spend a lot of money on aid in the Moderates in our budget motion. That's 160 billion for the next four years. That money will go to the aid efforts that lead to results and reach the most vulnerable people. That is not entirely the case today. For example, we want to increase the proportion of humanitarian aid. There is a very small proportion today, about 10%. These needs are increasing acutely in the wake of the pandemic. Does Annika Strandhäll think it is reasonable to spend such a small part of the aid on humanitarian efforts?
i-e8e40301e832376e-907	Madam President, I would like You can't turn this debate around, Magdalena Schröder. You stand here and say that you should cut Swedish aid by a third and then ask me why we who stand up for the 1% target in your opinion prioritise wrong. The goal of Swedish aid is not 1% of GDP. The goal of Swedish aid is to combat poverty and oppression. In addition, it is important to stand up for it not least in a time as fragile as it is right now. It is deeply provocative, Magdalena Schröder, that at this very time in history you are taking back the Swedish Democrats. The rest of us who stand astounded by and watch can only speculate in our own heads on what it is.
i-e8e40301e832376e-910	Madam President, I would like Politics is about prioritising. The state's budget is not infinite. But aid is important. That is why we are spending a lot of money on aid in our budget too. I note that it is perhaps also the most inappropriate time not to give priority to security when we have such a serious security crisis in our country.
i-e8e40301e832376e-912	Madam President, I would like I listened to the speech by Magdalena Schröder. Of course, some of what is said are very important things about aid effectiveness, priorities and other things. I very much share the view that it is very important to set clear priorities in aid. The concern comes when you read what the Moderates want to do for priorities. Basically, the Moderates are sketching a model that means that we are lowering aid levels a bit below the 1% level. It then links it to the 2030 Agenda objectives and other things and wants to phase out a lot of aid in about ten years' time. When one then mentions the priorities that one wishes to make, one mentions, among other things, as was also stated in the speech and is found in the Moderate reservation, global health, climate and environment, equality and institution building, and of course also humanitarian aid. It is extremely important aid, absolutely, and on the part of the Liberals we support all of this. It's just that there's an area that the Moderates don't mention that one's obviously given priority away. That is the aid for democracy. It becomes very strange when the conclusion is that we want to reduce aid quite substantially. Above all, what we apparently want to reduce is support for democracy-building. On the contrary, on our part in the Liberals, we believe that support for democratisation is by far the most important aid. That is the prerequisite for other aid to work and for more people to be able to benefit from individual rights and rights and to live in a market economy and democracy in the future. I wonder a little how the Moderates view this.
i-e8e40301e832376e-919	Madam President, I would like That's not true. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law should permeate all Swedish foreign policy engagement, all aid projects and all diplomacy. This applies to all Sweden's foreign policy engagement, quite simply. As far as democracy and human rights are concerned, there are a great many more tools than traditional development aid. The aim of the projects to improve democracy is extremely important and urgent. However, looking at the results of these projects, it has left a great deal to be desired. Then it may sometimes be better simply to freeze aid if developments go the wrong way. We can take a country like Tanzania, for example. What positive development can we say that the Swedish contribution has actually led to? Have we achieved as much results as we wanted, or would it have been better to freeze aid to state actors in Tanzania, for example? Perhaps it would have been a better mark of democracy.
i-e8e40301e832376e-922	Madam President, I would like It is indeed the case that a democratic perspective should permeate all aid and that we should make demands on the recipients. We certainly do not question that. It's extremely important. We should also make higher demands. But now it is a question of aid to those who want to build democracy. We are talking here, for example, about support for independent journalists. It could be lawyers and people who act to pursue legal proceedings against a dictatorship. This is about part of the aid provided by the party-based organisations, for example, from both our parties. Then the example of Tanzania becomes very strange. There is a regime that does not want democracy. What I am talking about is the support that goes to those who are fighting that regime. I miss that in Moderate politics. It is very strange to mention Lantmäteriverket and other things in the speech, but it does not mention those who are fighting for democracy. As a Liberal, I think that should be the most important thing of all.
i-e8e40301e832376e-926	Madam President, I would like If Fredrik Malm reads the Moderates' movements a little more carefully, he can see that we write a lot about small-scale aid. It is above all a question of human rights defenders who, in sums of money, do not have to be very expensive to finance, but who mean so much and can contribute to the right development. We write about that in our movements, as I said. Now it can be a rhetorical question, because Fredrik Malm is not able to answer, etc. What do the Liberals think about, for example, aid to Tanzania? There, as many as 40 per cent of Sweden's bilateral assistance takes place in cooperation with the government.
i-e8e40301e832376e-928	Madam President, I would like I must admit that I promised Mr Schröder a reply, because I think these are important questions. There is an exciting dynamic here between the Center Party's development policy and the Moderates' view of aid and development cooperation to highlight. Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I find it unfortunate if focusing must always mean cutting back. There is nothing inherent that says that a work to focus Swedish aid and development cooperation on what we think is most useful or what others cannot do means that it should be reduced in terms of resources. But that is not where I want to put the emphasis on the matter to Mr Schröder. I would also not like to suggest that Mrs Schröder would in any way not bother to achieve the global goals of lifting people out of poverty. I have personally seen that commitment to joint journeys. What I'm more interested in is just how the Moderates view the focus agenda ahead. Where are the largest and most important areas for Sweden to take in? For the Center Party, we describe in our reservations our development policy and how we think that Swedish aid efforts should focus on sustainability, gender equality and the poorest countries, among other things. Here I would like to hear a development from Mr Schröder.
i-e8e40301e832376e-934	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the question! I appreciate it. It is important to start talking about the content, what we want to do, and not get caught up in the discussion about how much money we should spend and then start discussing how we should spend it. I appreciate that. As I mentioned in my speech, we want more focused aid. Thematic areas that we see as particularly important are a significantly greater proportion of humanitarian and emergency aid. When most people think about aid, they think it's the kind of aid they're involved in funding. Perhaps it is not other projects such as gender budgeting that have resulted in feminist snow clearance. This type of project probably does not have as much support as emergency aid. That is why we want that share to increase. Otherwise, thematic areas such as gender equality, the environment and climate, and global health – such as vaccinations – are extremely important, and that is effective aid. It could be said that vaccinations are far too easy, but it is an extremely effective aid that saves lives. So there were some of the things. We have institution-building, for example, because functioning institutions are so vitally important in terms of economic growth and legal certainty. These are some of the areas. However, we need much more focused aid, for example when it comes to multilateral aid. I would like to ask Magnus Ek what he thinks about the reasonableness that Swedish taxpayers are the fifth largest contributor to 17 UN organisations. Is that a reasonable number? What does Magnus Ek think about Sweden being the fifth largest contributor to the UN during 2015–2017 in absolute terms?
i-e8e40301e832376e-938	Madam President, I would like I can start with the last question, because I'll admit it's a pride. I feel a personal pride and a national pride in it. One should be careful to feel that kind of pride as a politician; I am aware of that. It is not my money, it is the Swedish taxpayer's. However, every time I talk about these issues, I will say that we should all, as Swedish citizens and taxpayers, be very proud of it. Then we can also feel a sadness that we become the fifth largest donor, for that means that others could have given more. There we must continue to have a discussion with other donor countries on how to increase this. I also think it is important that we have both these discussions, that is not only about how we focus and streamline, but also about how much resources are actually needed to achieve Agenda 2030. Every penny will be needed, not only in the aid budget but also in addition to it. This will be my last counter-question here, because there are a couple of things I think the Moderates are going wrong in – among other things the great focus away from development aid. It is very important to combat humanitarian crises, but if we are really to eradicate poverty, we must also develop societies. I would therefore like to ask: how should we exchange the Swedish aid? Now, if we cut down the public sector, how are we going to change it up so we can reach the targets?
i-e8e40301e832376e-942	Madam President, I would like Agenda 2030 is a growth agenda, and it is economic growth and trade that drive sustainable development. That is why we must have a policy of growth. Particularly in the wake of the pandemic, it will be particularly important to launch the world economy; it will be crucial for us to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030. It will be difficult to reach the targets by 2030, but the targets remain the same. The ambition is to work to reach them by that year. As far as Sweden's global commitment is concerned, I also feel a great deal of pride, but I really do not think it is reasonable for Swedish taxpayers to take such a disproportionate responsibility for core support to UN organisations. I think it would have been better if Sweden more strategically, based on our foreign policy priorities, focused our assistance on a number of fewer organisations where we can have control and good follow-up.
i-e8e40301e832376e-944	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse our reservations about the state budget in Category 7 and about the long-term direction of policy. As we all know, after World War II, the UN was formed so that something like World War II could never happen again. The UN has not always worked perfectly, but the world needs UN peacekeeping and peace-building activities. Over time, the UN has also developed a number of development aid organisations and to mitigate the consequences of disasters such as droughts, storms, diseases and conflicts. We want to retain support for the UN peacekeeping functions and for the UN's basic aid organisations. However, the UN is also experiencing problems in its aid activities: for many UN organisations, excessive overhead costs and repeated evidence of corruption in terms of finances and appointments. Something needs to be done. It is significant that, year after year, one of the UN's most important organisations, the UNHCR, suffers from insufficient funding despite the fact that we know that poorly managed refugee camps easily create a breeding ground for political and religious extremism. The Swedish Democrats want to prioritise support for, among others, UNHCR, FAO, UNICEF and World Food Programme. We want to support disease control through the WHO and other organisations, such as the vaccination programme Gavi. We want to promote mergers of UN organisations in order to reduce administration, overhead costs and duplication of work. Madam President, I would like Swedish taxpayers provide by far the most international aid, and this has been the case for a very long time. We want aid that is at the same level as the cluster of second-best countries behind us. In our budget, therefore, we have reduced the target from the government's 1% of GDP to the UN-recommended 0.7% of GDP. Not many countries reach that goal either, as we know – Sweden would still be among the three or four most generous donor countries. This would also give us an opportunity to go through aid and build on what has proved to be the most effective. The objective of aid must be to raise the poorest countries to become, in a first step, lower middle-income countries. In order for this to happen, they must enter into world trade, and then a number of basic components must be put in place. The first component is education. Today, the vast majority of people in the poorest countries receive primary education, but they very rarely receive vocational training. This is particularly true in countries that have suffered long-standing conflicts. Sweden should help with not only primary but also vocational education in a few areas where we have competence. Another component is electricity, which is often lacking in the poorest countries – especially outside the giant cities. No investor wants to invest unless there is stable access to electricity. There is also something to consider in the case of southern Sweden and the current government's energy policy, Madam President. A third component is roads. The lack of acceptable roads is one reason why only big cities are developing in many developing countries. Aid policy must aim to develop medium-sized cities. This is where industry can develop while fleeing the huge slums of millions of cities may be reduced. We need to strengthen aid for vocational training, electrification and ways of creating the conditions for aid countries to stand on their own feet, as many aid countries have also done over the last 50 years. These are the components that China often supports, and it is a mistake to wave away the fact that the Chinese are only looking for raw materials. China knows from experience what is needed to lift a country from extreme poverty to become a developed industrial nation. We must be able to show that democratic countries can do the same. Madam President, I would like The OECD has criticised Sweden for only 1% of our aid going to industry while the OECD average is 7%. Aid must be based on collaboration with the business community in the recipient countries, but also with Swedish companies, schools and universities. If we are to speak with the wording of Agenda 2030, all this is about promoting sustainable economic growth, jobs, resilient infrastructure and sustainable industrialisation, and promoting innovation. That is Objective 8 and Objective 9. When the World Food Programme's director David Beasley was here in Parliament on 22 October, he stressed the importance of rehabilitating degenerate land, not least in sub-Saharan Africa. Within the UN, among others, the World Food Programme, UNHCR and FAO work on soil rehabilitation. In the SD Development Movement, we had just pointed this out, and therefore David Beasley's words felt like confirmation. I'd like to dive down a little something special in this. Rehabilitation of forests and vegetation is very important. Sweden should pool its efforts in this area. Especially clear is this need around refugee camps. They are often built in the belief that they will remain for only a few years, but on the contrary, they almost always become permanent. The camps are built on the least occupied land, often in dry areas where it does not grow well. Especially in Africa, wood is the main fuel for cooking, so trees, shrubs and finally roots around the camps are gathered in order to boil the grains that are often staple food. The vegetation is rapidly impoverished. The camp's inhabitants, often women, are forced to go further and further away to find the wood, and conflicts with surrounding groups, as well as sexual crimes, are common. Madam President, I would like One of the biggest women's issues is joblessness among young men. They easily become dangerous and, in the refugee camps, easy targets for recruiters to extreme religious and political movements. Instead, employment can teach them to contribute to society and become stable family fathers in due course. Sweden therefore needs to help with this type of project. We do not need multi-billion-dollar funds like GCF and GEF for this purpose; we have great expertise in Sweden. We can help with tree planting, create employment and also help with woodworking projects. We can work directly with recipient countries, UNHCR and FAO. In this way, we create employment, reduce violence against women, give extremism less foothold and help to create a longer-term economy. At the same time, we know that tree planting is one of the most effective ways of improving the climate, both locally and globally. Mr President, I would like to If I am allowed to make a personal remark, I would like to add that I have worked quite a lot on various aid projects, but none have seemed to me more meaningful than these. I brought this because I think it is important. I think that we will then debate the various parts of the aid more so that I can tell you more.
i-e8e40301e832376e-961	Mr President, I would like to I think this was a speech with many good examples of what aid can be used for – many benevolent projects and efforts that I really think could be useful. The parts that go to the type of project that Mr Nordberg lists are, I believe, effective and good aid activities. However, in the light of the debate and the change of line we had in connection with the previous speech, I still think that a reply should be made to Mats Nordberg about Sweden's views on the funding of Swedish aid. The Moderates state very clearly that they are decreasing down in their own right but also want to try to focus more clearly on greater aid effectiveness, and they are looking for a rather comprehensive reasoning. I miss that kind of reasoning from the Swedish Democrats, and I wonder how Mr Nordberg views this. It seems that the Swedish Democrats do not want to push for a focus agenda but, on the other hand, are happy to cut back on Swedish aid. As the honourable Member himself described in his speech, there is no lack of examples of good projects that make a difference in people's everyday lives and can improve their living conditions and help lift them out of poverty. Projects that help lift people out of oppression and increase democratic participation and development in the world were a little thinner. But my question is: How does the Member Nordberg see that the Swedish democrats are going to get this together – to reduce the scope of Swedish aid and yet manage to get the same and preferably also an increased impact? After all, we know that global challenges are not reducing at the moment, but are increasing.
i-e8e40301e832376e-965	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the question! First of all, I would like to say that our savings in the aid budget have not been initiated because we want to make aid more effective. Nor do we believe that saving it will improve our aid. Our savings in aid are due to the problems we have at home – huge integration problems that we have not solved through decades, and nothing indicates that it will be easier in the future. That is because we have to build a defence that has been dismantled, and that is because of the huge social problems that we have and because of a pension system that is watered down. There are social problems, and somewhere we have to find the money. Having said that, we have thought: what is the most important thing in aid, which must be saved? We think that today there are too many UN organisations and funds, about 35. We're not the whole world-- we don't have to support the whole UN. Let's pick out what's closest to what we're good at and believe a lot in. We think that supporting UNHCR is important, because it helps people in the extreme need and can also reduce the flow of refugees. So there is a dual purpose, and it reduces our costs here at home so that we get more money left for aid. We believe in the FAO a lot because they can help to plant forests, which means that we can manage carbon balance and so on. They help with food production so that we can feed 10 billion people. We want to support them. We have listed in our budget what we want to support, and so in the second case, it is cheese slicer.
i-e8e40301e832376e-970	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I think it is worthy of praise to describe so clearly what one's policy is aimed at. I think it is speaking out of the beard to say that this is not about achieving greater efficiency but about cutting back. It is certainly not lukewarm behind those words – I think that is honourable to the honourable Member. Nevertheless, the reasoning is completely wrong. Global needs are not decreasing, and not fewer people will need help to lift themselves out of poverty and oppression. Looking at the Swedish needs – and now I would like to issue a warning, Mr President, because I can sound like a little well-saved classic liberal – I think we in this House could list a hundred things, albeit not in the twelve seconds that I have left, that we could reduce in the Swedish state budget before reducing support for the most vulnerable people in the world. I think we can find things that the state does not have to do in Sweden to manage to solve its core tasks, while at the same time saving aid.
i-e8e40301e832376e-973	Mr President, I would like to Yes, perhaps you can — it depends on how much more money we want to borrow. The European Union wants decisions to be taken to borrow EUR 700 billion, and we will be guarantors of our share. The budget deficit for 2021 is estimated, if I understand correctly, to be SEK 67 billion. So the rest of you owe the answer. Should we have a budget that goes even further back? At the same time, we must try to take responsibility – priority has been said. Priority is to be a politician. Somehow the bill has to go together. Magnus Ek also said that we don't say much about making aid more effective. Of course, we want to make aid more effective, especially by reducing the number of UN organisations to which we are providing aid and proposing mergers of UN organisations, because there is a huge amount of duplication of work.
i-e8e40301e832376e-976	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by calling for the Centre Party's reservation 7 in paragraph 3 to be approved, so that I can then focus on my speech. We are debating here today one of the most important and proud contributions of Swedish society to the international community: the Swedish aid and development policy. It is, quite rightly, a source of national pride for me and many others in Sweden that we, a country that has developed over the last 170 years from an extremely poor country to one of the richest, freest and most equal societies in the world, contribute some of our national income to efforts to lift other people out of poverty and oppression. It is also a sense of personal pride that the Center Party in its budget cooperation with the government and the Liberals defends the extent of the grant, as it is a source of pride that we have entered in the January agreement efforts to streamline, focus and improve Swedish development cooperation. Perhaps it has rarely been as important as in these very times. The world is going through an extremely difficult time. Throughout the world, communities as well as individuals are extremely hard hit by the coronapandemy and its consequential effects. More than 1 million people have lost their lives. Countless people have lost all or part of their income when communities shut down, businesses have lost business opportunities and trade has been strangled and made more difficult. After hundreds of millions in recent decades have been lifted out of poverty, many of them are now in danger of slipping back into an extremely difficult situation. The persecution of democracy and rights fighters is on the increase. The pool of forces to solve the climate crisis is becoming more difficult right now. Children are deprived of the opportunity to attend school. Women and girls are affected by increased violence and by harsher, negative gender roles in the swell of the coronapandemia. As is so often the case in a crisis, those who already have the least and are already the most vulnerable suffer the most. And all the challenges that Swedish aid and development cooperation aims to solve are now only getting deeper and deeper. The conclusion, Mr President, must be to safeguard the Swedish contribution to sustainable societies and a better world, but also to look soberly at how it is used. Deepening challenges that are combined, globally, with authoritarian and isolationist trends make Sweden's role as a democratic and equal partner more important than for a long time. When the difficulties in achieving the objectives of Agenda 2030 become greater, it is even more important that Sweden focuses on how we can contribute the most and on where we need to contribute because others cannot or do not want to do so. In the January agreement, the Center Party has agreed with the government and the Liberals that aid should be focused and that the focus on democracy should be strengthened. I am pleased that Sida has during the year been commissioned to start an analysis work on how this can be carried out. As I said, it is more important than for a very long time that we become more effective in the Swedish development and development work. But just because it is pleasing does not mean that the work is finished. For the Center Party, it is obvious that there are areas where Sweden can contribute more strongly – areas where we play a greater role than in other areas. The objectives of Agenda 2030 are equal and indivisible, but our contribution to achieving them can be more powerful if it is focused on precisely those areas where we do most good and have the most expertise or where others back off. In addition, we should remember that Agenda 2030 has a major shortcoming as democratic development and participation are not integrated. It is a result of the fact that it is a compromise product with countries that absolutely do not want to see democratic and equal development in the world. Based on this, we will conduct the focus work during this term of office. It also means that we have a vision that differs from many other parties in this House in terms of how aid will develop in the future. This is also expressed in our reservation in the report. I would like to take some time to describe what we think Sweden could focus on – areas where we for the Center Party think we could focus even more. First of all, gender equality and equal rights are crucial for eradicating poverty and achieving the objectives of Agenda 2030. A majority of the world's poor are women, and women are more subject to oppression. If we do not fight inequality, we cannot eradicate poverty either. We must therefore continue and strengthen the focus on gender equality, sexual and reproductive health and education for both girls and boys. As a democratic country in a world where the majority of the world's countries are not democracies – the majority of the world's citizens live in non-free countries – we have a special responsibility to help build democracy and the rule of law. This, we believe, should be a stronger focus in Swedish development cooperation. We must create institutions in all the countries of the world that can defend citizens' rights and freedoms. Sweden is also a pioneer country in how to build sustainable societies. We have a technical expertise and expertise in Swedish companies, in Swedish academia and in Swedish society that could benefit the world better. We believe that Swedish development cooperation should be more focused on solving the climate crisis, reducing the world's emissions and helping to build resilience for those who will be affected by climate change. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, we should remember that although the purpose of Swedish aid is to reduce poverty and oppression, aid or redistribution cannot eradicate poverty. Only growth can achieve it – growth that benefits all the world's people. Global aid is not enough to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030, but we need to switch aid with other sources of funding if we are to achieve those objectives. That is why we want to see Swedish development cooperation develop towards a greater arm of private actors, civil society and industry to mobilise the financial and human resources needed if we are to achieve the global goals. I have a few more points that I would like to squeeze in even if my speaking time is running out. In brief, I would like to say that the majority of the world's poor are women. A majority of those women live in rural areas. They do not live in cities, where Swedish aid is usually directed. If we are to be able to lift all the world's people out of poverty, we must also focus on how we get out of the world and how we reach outside the larger cities. As Magdalena Schröder mentioned earlier, it is important that we consider how Sweden's aid is used most effectively. Is it like core support, in multi-bi-stakes or bilateral? As far as the Center Party is concerned, we believe it is in bilateral aid. We also need to have a clearer post-2030 agenda. Aid is not there to always exist but to achieve the objectives and then move on to solving other problems. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a proud history of working for a better life for poor and oppressed people. We believe that if we can focus our work and sharpen it further, the proudest efforts are still ahead of us.
i-e8e40301e832376e-996	Mr President, I would like to I'll be brief. Magnus Ek talks a lot about democracy development and institution building. I believe in that a lot, too. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the question: Can you have this before you have prosperity? Magnus Ek said that we have a proud history of aid. The two biggest projects we have ever done are Bai Bang and Kotmale. Bai Bang was a large paper mill with forest plantings in Vietnam, and Kotmale was a hydroelectric power plant in Sri Lanka. Now we have almost nothing like that. We have almost no cooperation with companies, but focus only on institutional development. I believe that we must try to weigh more towards making projects that build future prosperity in these countries. I would like to hear Magnus Ek's views on this.
i-e8e40301e832376e-999	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Mats Nordberg! As you can see, eight minutes is far too short to be able to say it all. I think I was into some of this in my speech, but this points to one of the problems of development cooperation that my favorites are trying to solve. Can we have prosperity without functioning institutions or vice versa– what comes first? Look at the history of Sweden! The Swedish history of prosperity development, when we rose from an extremely poor country to one of the world's most prosperous, is a history of increased individual freedom, the rule of law, democracy and prosperity that emerges in community. I am absolutely convinced that one cannot have a prosperity that benefits the whole people without functioning legal institutions, which can act as guarantors of personal prosperity and freedoms. The challenge is that we often struggle in contexts where none of these parts exist. There is no popular rule, no rule of law and no prosperity. There is poverty and oppression. What is our big challenge is that we must be able to work with several of these different things at the same time. In my speech, I placed particular emphasis on democracy and the rule of law, but also on the development of prosperity, and that Swedish aid must be better at arming the business community. It is partly about mobilising more resources and partly about being involved in building prosperity. I believe that this is something we both need and can get better at, but when we do it and have such projects, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that we must strive for it to happen in societies where there are institutions that guarantee the rights of individuals and businesses, private ownership and popular influence. I do not believe that a sustainable society will be built unless all these elements are included.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1003	Mr President, I would like to I agree. But I would like to say that these very projects, which gather around to build something, whatever it may be, do not just develop beautiful papers, but these are things that have to work in practice. If you are building an industrial project, you may want wood or some other raw material. They may want suppliers to be around that project, and that is where the institutions are built. It'll be real and it won't be on paper. That's really just what I want to find out.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1004	Mr President, I would like to There are both brilliant examples and horrifying examples of when we have tried to go in and build this type of project. I apologise, Mr President, for ripping something up over the next few seconds. I have heard horribly good examples of how American aid organisations, for example, go in and build up a huge solar power plant or to clean water. Then they say "Mission accomplished!" 中 and leave, and the plants fall due because there is no one in charge. There is no local ownership, there is no local know-how, and as we know: If we do not have entrepreneurs and individuals who know ownership and who have knowledge to run this, then this type of project is meaningless. There are horror examples of that. There are also quite good examples of when we have local ownership from the start. That's what I think is crucial in the coming decades if we want to eradicate poverty and build richer and stronger societies – not only to look at how we build prosperity but also how local ownership can be involved from the start and how we work in a real partnership.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1007	Mr President, I would like to This is the fourth year in a row that I am debating Category 7. Every time, I have started by saying that the gap between the poor and the rich is abyssed – between countries, within countries and between women and men. Every year this inequality gap has deepened, and it will continue to do so if the governments of the world continue with the unfair, neo-colonial economic policy. Unless we ensure that people have decent working conditions and wages, unless school, health care and care are provided according to needs rather than according to the size of their wallets, unless equality is achieved and women are given the right to decide over their own bodies, unless discrimination and racism are countered, it does not matter how many Millennium Goals or Agenda 2030 are set up; inequality will continue to increase. This applies not only to all other governments but also to Sweden. Here priority is given to tax relief for the rich who should not have to pay full price to get the Armanian shirt washed or the pool cleaned, despite the fact that preschools, schools and elderly care make cuts. This gives priority to private performers in welfare despite the fact that it is impoverished and the majority of the Swedish people want profits removed from welfare. Here the government is prepared to reduce working conditions despite the fact that most people want better working conditions. This applies not least to our young people and newcomers who are exploited ruthlessly in a labour market in hours, in poor working environment and with gig jobs. Given that the government is not pushing for greater equality in Sweden, I am not surprised that the government is not pushing for what is really needed to make the world more equal. Among other things, both the UN and numerous organisations raise human rights due diligence in order for companies to be forced to comply with human rights and climate agreements and offer decent working conditions and wages. Country-by-country reporting is also lifted up as a tool against tax evasion, but the government is only shouldering the important proposals. Here we are now facing an economic inequality that is so great in the world that the men who own more than all the women of Africa together are no more than that they can play a football game, but they can change and without judges. That is why aid is needed. It is like the least we can ask of the rich world, which has done, and continues to do, its wealth at the expense of the majority of the people. Mr President, I would like to Much of the Swedish development policy is really good. Sweden is the best in the class on many parameters. We give 1% of GDP in aid – almost, given the calculations, but still – unlike most donor countries, which do not even reach 0.7%, as we have agreed together. Swedish aid is usually effective and accurate, which means that we can be sure that almost everything goes to what it is supposed to be. But when the number of starving and refugees in recent years has increased and the pandemic that is ravaging the situation can and should Sweden do more. The need for solidarity is highlighted by the ongoing pandemic. Instead of moving money as the government within the existing aid budget, the Left Party proposes a special Corona assistance of SEK 1 billion per year for two years in addition to the existing budget. Measures such as vaccination to reduce the spread of infection, health care needs and to mitigate the economic effects of the pandemic should be available. It should also be able to go to human rights activists or others who, under even more difficult circumstances, are fighting for a free and democratic society. Mr President, I would like to This pandemic draws our attention to the ongoing climate crisis. For example, the lack of water is particularly evident now that people lack the ability to follow basic advice on hygiene and hand washing. It is the richest people in the world who have caused climate change and have the greatest impact on the climate. According to an entirely recent report from Oxfam, the richest emit 430 times more than the poorest. On the other hand, the worst affected are the world's poor people. From a climate justice perspective, it is the rich countries that have the historic responsibility for climate change and which now also have the greatest responsibility for reducing their emissions and providing support to the poor countries that are affected. The need for climate aid, which in accordance with the Paris Agreement is out of the ordinary, remains. The Left Party has presented a new climate aid that closes gaps and gives the world better opportunities to face future crises and disasters. Mr President, I would like to To be able to control one's own body and express one's own sexuality is a fundamental human right. But it is violated and restricted in many countries with which Sweden cooperates in development cooperation. Lack of access to contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care, strong restrictions on the right to abortion and the use of sexual violence against women and girls in conflict are key obstacles to development and the fight against poverty. Reactionary and authoritarian leaders around the world have used the coronapandemy as a reason to restrict human rights. For example, the Polish Government has chosen to come forward with a strongly criticised proposal to tighten up very restrictive abortion legislation further. In the United States, reduced access to safe abortions has been labeled as a direct consequence of the coronapandemia. In addition, in the wake of curfews, there is an increased risk of women and children being subjected to domestic violence. Increased poverty has resulted in more cases of genital mutilation and an increase in the number of children today being married away. Sexual and reproductive health and rights must therefore be given priority in Swedish development cooperation and humanitarian aid. I believe that the government should increase the proportion of aid allocated to work with the SRHR to at least 10% of the total aid budget. Mr President, I would like to As you will have noticed, I want to see a just and equal world where all people are free to live the lives they choose. I want to see a world where all people can live in freedom from poverty, in freedom from injustice, violence and racism, in freedom to their bodies and in love, in freedom to see their children grow up in security and gain the knowledge and support they need to become the best they can. What I have highlighted in today's debate is just a sample of all our proposals for such a world. Since the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the area of expenditure is above the level that the government assigns to Category 7 we will not be taking part in the decision on the budget allocation. On the other hand, we have a reservation on the priorities of the budget allocation, and I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation number 8.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1023	Mr President, I would like to There were big words from the Left Party that all people in the world should enjoy freedom. Let us then look at how committed the Left Party is to this. It is a good temperature meter of how much a party stands for global solidarity with the vulnerable if you look at what the party itself does. The Left Party has a long history, decades of history, of being blindly loyal to the Communist dictatorship in Cuba, for example. In recent years, support has been reduced, and there have been some critical statements from the Left Party. Of course, it's a good thing and a step along the way. But if you look more closely at the organisation of the Left Party, you can see that the party has a fairly close cooperation with the Swedish lobby organisation of the Cuban Communist regime. It is called the Swedish-Cuban Association, abbreviated Svek, and it has only one purpose, namely to blindly and completely defend the regime in Cuba. In recent years, a number of left party associations have arranged meetings with the lobby group for a one-party dictatorship. You usually have logos together with the organization. In addition, several left-wing politicians in council assemblies and also in municipal councils around the country are listed as contact persons for the lobby organisation. They are not just support members, but they are contact persons for an organisation whose sole purpose is to promote Communist government. This also happens in the near future. Last week the Left Party had a meeting in Malmö. The speaker said he represented both the Left Party and the Swedish-Cuban Society at the same time. It was a homage to the dictatorship in Cuba. Can you represent the Left Party and at the same time represent an association that wants to introduce a one-party dictatorship? Is that possible?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1028	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether I should really thank you for the question when it is not about aid, which is what we are debating today. Fredrik Malm and I have stood here and talked about Cuba on numerous occasions, and he has asked other members of the Left Party Parliament. We have all said the same thing, namely that we do not think Cuba is a democracy. It needs a lot of work in Cuba to be able to be called a free, democratic and fair country. At the same time, we do not turn a blind eye to the progress that has actually been made in Cuba, but one does not exclude the other. That is why, time and again, when Fredrik Malm raises the issue, we tell Fredrik Malm that we are not satisfied with the development that has taken place in Cuba, and we do not think it is a democracy.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1031	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Left Party thinks this is a difficult debate. In fact, contrary to what Yasmine Posio says here, many of the members of the party want a development similar to that of Cuba. They run in elections in Sweden and say that it should be democracy in Sweden, but at the same time they are part of an organisation that wants to deny Cubans exactly those rights. It is clear that this has to do with aid because aid is linked to the issue of global solidarity and global democracy. Once again, I ask Yasmine Posio the following. How is it possible, in 2020, that there are representatives in the Left Party who at the same time are representatives of an organisation that wants to introduce communist one-party dictatorship? How is that possible? What does Yasmine Posio say to them? What is Yasmine Posios's message to them? These are her members, not my members.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1034	Mr President, I would like to It's not my members because I'm not the only one in charge of the Left Party. It is the members together who decide how the Left Party should function. Members have jointly agreed on the direction that our policy should take, such as the fact that human rights are an important guiding principle in what we want to do in our policy. That is why we criticise Chile, Cuba, China and Saudi Arabia. It is the members jointly who have agreed on the policy that I shall conduct here when I talk about development policy. The fact that some individual members do such things is not my individual responsibility. On the other hand, I criticise it every time it happens.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1036	Mr President, I would like to The President and colleagues will have to excuse me if you think I am very busy in the lines, but I have been sitting and charging for months at the farm office at home in Gryt for this debate. I have longed to have an ideological debate on aid policy, and I am throwing myself at the opportunity here too. I think I and Yasmine Posio agree that aid is important and that we should not cut back on it, but rather think about how we can exchange aid. I also think that there is a difference that I would like to try to drill deeper into. I mentioned several times in my speech what I and the Center Party think is of the utmost importance, namely that we should arm the state with private actors, both civil society and business, in order to shift resources to try to achieve the global goals. It is also about the value of us working with entrepreneurship, the conditions of entrepreneurship and the opportunities for people to run companies in the countries in which Sweden works. Here I would like to ask Yasmine Posio a question. How does the honourable Member think we should shift resources so that we can achieve Agenda 2030 if we do not, in a much more active way than we do today, hook arms with the Swedish business community to try to strengthen our efforts? I miss that information in the Left Party Budget Movement.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1040	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Ek for the question. On the day when the business community wants to comply with human rights, wants to strengthen the opportunities so that the climate is not destroyed by the activities carried out, wants to introduce decent working conditions and strengthen wages that are viable in the countries in which business is established, and that day we are very willing to hook arms with those companies. Time and again, we see how the large multinationals, and also other companies that are not so large, take the opportunity to establish themselves in uncertain, poor countries where there is oppression. Then they do not need to have such good working conditions, they do not need to protect the working environment or ensure that people receive a salary that they can live on so that they can send children to school instead of children to work. We see no contradiction in hooking arms with companies, but then companies must comply with the rules that exist and implement the important reforms that are needed in society in order for everyone to have a good and dignified life.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1044	Mr President, I would like to There is no complaint about the ideological dividing lines. They were clearly painted. It is not surprising that this is a black-painting of entrepreneurship in general. Not all companies are big global giants whose ultimate purpose is to suck people out. Just as there are all kinds of actors in civil society, just as there are all sorts of people, there are also all sorts of companies. What I think one misses from the Left Party is that if we do not hook arms with Swedish companies that want to enter and do good in the same environments, in the same contexts and in the same way as we want with Swedish aid is that we lose resources. But we should also ask ourselves: What are the alternatives for countries that want to emerge from poverty and want growth and development? At present, the alternative is far too often to have to accept Chinese investment and influence. And let me say that there we can talk about an influence that is not benevolent.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1047	Mr. Speaker and Mr. Magnus Ek! I myself grew up in a small business family surrounded by siblings who have small businesses, so I am very well aware of the difference between companies that only want to make profits and companies that are run because they want to do something good. You might have a craft that you're good at or whatever it is. Sweden became a strong nation not only thanks to companies but thanks to the fact that workers joined forces in collective and demanded better working conditions and better wages. Through this collaboration Sweden became strong, and this is what is needed in the outside world as well. I have no problem hooking arms with companies that want to follow h uman rights due d iligence and want to account for their taxes fair and honest.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1050	Mr President, I would like to Reduced poverty and democracy and human rights are overarching goals for Swedish development cooperation. At the same time, the world's needs are enormous. At the beginning of this year, nearly 170 million people in the world needed humanitarian aid. In the footsteps of the coronapndemine, the situation has further worsened. After several years of successful work, extreme poverty and hunger have struck back. Extreme poverty is increasing for the first time since 1988. According to the UN, 150 million people are estimated to be affected next year. At the same time, the World Food Programme estimates that the number of people who do not have enough food for the day will rise to 270 million. This happens in a situation where nearly 80 million people are on the run. Mr President, I would like to In the face of this gloomy development, it is essential to safeguard the 1% target. Just as important as generous aid is for the most vulnerable – it is equally important for every society to protect humanity and human dignity. The 1% target is an important part of Swedish development policy, but it is more than that. It is also a measure of the content of our values – of the ability to look beyond national interests and self-interest. When this is said, it should also be said that quantity must never exceed quality. It must be a basic requirement that every tax chandelier is used as efficiently as possible and helps to make a real difference. The Christian Democrats have previously questioned the government for channelling too much of the aid budget into an often sluggish and ineffective UN system. Instead, our option is to channel support significantly more through civil society organisations, which are making great efforts around the world. In disaster areas, NGOs and Christian communities often work in the direct front line. In development cooperation, it is the churches that, through local contacts, have the best conditions to work effectively and in the long term successfully. This, Mr President, must be taken into account in a completely different way from today. The Christian Democrats highlight three areas of particular concern in development policy. Firstly, the fight against poverty. World Bank statistics show that poverty reduction has already slowed down in several places around the world before the pandemic. In other words, achieving the first two objectives of Agenda 2030 requires a strong commitment. Secondly, Sweden, together with other countries, must make a greater contribution to helping people to escape. In the vast majority of cases, life in refugee camps and temporary housing is passivating and directly unworthy. This must be broken. Thirdly, democracy must be developed and protected. Around the world, democratic values are more threatened today than before. Political opposition, civil society, media and lawyers are under heavy pressure. Support for these institutions and groups must be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to For aid to have an impact and enable a better life for people, respect for human rights is required. Unfortunately, the Red-Green Government has all too often chosen to sidestep human rights violations in aid countries. There are statements and criticisms, but direct action against regimes that seriously violate human rights has been unusual. That is why it is important that the government freeze aid – albeit late – to countries such as Tanzania, Cambodia and Belarus, where democratic development is so clearly going the wrong way or threatened. Sweden's aid needs to be conditional on more places in the world. Palestinian areas are one such example. Of course, we should support the Palestinian people, but we do not do that by holding under arms a corrupt regime. It is a regime that for decades has spread anti-Semitism, supported terrorism and enriched itself at the expense of the population. Not making demands for this to be stopped and continuing billions of aid as if nothing had happened is unacceptable. And that, Mr President, is taking on a great responsibility. Looking between the fingers with irregularities and reducing serious problems jeopardises confidence in Swedish development policy and the willingness of citizens to provide aid. That is the last thing we need at a time when the need for international aid and assistance is growing dramatically.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1066	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10 by the Liberals. The pandemic that is now sweeping the world is killing hundreds of thousands of lives, and it will be millions. Of course, for people who are already in a difficult situation, the medical condition of the pandemic is getting worse. We see the enormous problems we have in our society, both medically and economically, as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. It is clear that a country with a much weaker economy than Sweden, weaker health systems and weaker social functions, is hit even harder by the pandemic. This means that many of the countries receiving aid are experiencing terrible difficulties at the moment. It is not just about how the pandemic reaps lives, but it has consequences for entire communities. For example, we can look at the economic consequences, with large numbers of jobs disappearing and, of course, an increase in unemployment. For poor countries, it also means that the direct investment from richer countries and companies around the world that you are very dependent on is decreasing. Many of the poorer countries are also more risky environments to invest in, and the more risky direct investments are the ones that are often cut back first in such a situation. At the same time, overburdened health care is provided in many countries. Of course, one must then focus on those affected by the coronavirus, which means that very much of the regular, regular health care is displaced in different ways. It can be about maternal care and other types of care. This means that many people do not necessarily die as a result of the pandemic, but because the care they need for someone else does not benefit them. Similar examples have been seen in the past, for example in connection with the Ebola disaster in West Africa. For aid, the pandemic also has the consequence that, as many richer countries have a strongly weakened economy, there are cuts in aid. It does not have to be conscious cuts; it can be the pure consequence of countries, just as we in Sweden have locked their aid to a certain level of gross national income. We also see another consequence of the pandemic, Mr President, namely how authoritarian and rough-handed regimes use this opportunity given by the pandemic to tighten laws on freedom of expression, for example. We have also implemented restrictions in Sweden to prevent the spread of infection. For example, you can't meet many people in streets and squares, we have digital meetings and so on. It is, in a sense, a restriction of democracy that is justified. It is being implemented for democratic purposes, and we know that when Sweden emerges from the pandemic, this will be rolled back. We will return to normality, so to speak. However, when this type of restriction occurs in an authoritarian state with rough, aggressive and perhaps polarising leadership, it means that we have no guarantee whatsoever that the restrictions imposed will be rolled back in the future. We have also looked at the discussion around Hungary, for example, that this also affects the European Union. So there is a huge risk of the pandemic, both in terms of aid and aid levels and in terms of the situation of democracy in the world. Now, if we look at our neighbourhood in Europe, we can say that the problems go like a horseshoe around Europe – over northern Africa, the Middle East region, parts of Eastern Europe and, of course, not least Russia. The disintegration that is taking place in many countries – Syria, Libya, Yemen, etc. – creates huge flows of refugees. We see radicalisation, enormous humanitarian hardships in large refugee camps, people who want to transit war zones to get to Europe and so on. This places very high demands on us also to shift humanitarian aid and aid to help people in need. It is not just about alms, if anyone thinks so, but it is very much about the fact that if we do not create stability in Europe's neighbourhood, we will find it increasingly difficult to deal with the situation later on. Devastation of states, large flows of refugees, radicalisation, jihadism and much more mean that we must act in order to achieve stability. In the refugee camps, humanitarian aid – food stamps, blankets, vaccines etc. – is something that also helps to create stability. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals have seen, in fact throughout the history of democracy, that it is impossible to build democracy without democrats. Democracy is not something you can just process or decide. Democracy presupposes that there are individuals who want to build democracy, that there are politicians who want to run for office to push through legislation and push vote buttons to implement democratic constitutions, that there are people who drive different issues and who want to improve their societies. It is impossible to achieve long-term good development for freedom and for human rights in the world if we do not concentrate on supporting those who really want to build democracy. It has also led to our conclusion in the Liberals – which so far is actually only shared by us in this House, unfortunately – that the objective of democracy should be the primary objective of poverty in aid policy. For it is so vital to build democratic societies if we also want to combat poverty. It is enough to look at the rich countries of the Western world. Their economic development has gone hand in hand with democratic development. We are now acting in the framework of the January cooperation with the Center Party and the government parties to strengthen the focus on democracy in development cooperation and aid. We push as much as we can for the principle more and less for less to be implemented. This means that if a country carries out democratic reforms and wants to develop in a democratic direction, we should be able to increase support there. But if, on the contrary, a country moves in a repressive direction, persecutes people, embeds opponents in prisons and so on, Swedish aid will also be reduced there. I hope that this will have an increased impact on Swedish development policy in the future.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1079	Mr President, I would like to We live in an extremely uncertain environment where far too many signs point in a direction that we, who are in favour of democracy, openness, global collaboration and the search for common solutions to an increasing number of complex problems in our world, look with great concern at. Countries are closing down and becoming increasingly protectionist. We are seeing an increasing number of authoritarian leaders and authoritarian regimes, including in our own neighbourhood. For the 14th year in a row, human rights developments are also going backwards in more countries than where they are moving forward. An increasing proportion of the world's poor live in conflict zones. At the beginning of 2020, the OECD estimated that three quarters of the world's people living in extreme poverty live in conflict-affected or fragile states. We know that freedom of expression has declined in all regions of the world since the mid-00s. Freedom on the Internet is also decreasing, as political leaders are using this opportunity to monitor people and spread propaganda. Authoritarian regimes are strengthening their grip on the media, and the number of countries that are safe for journalists to work in is decreasing. Every year since 2006, more countries have gone backwards in their democratic development compared to the number of countries that have become more democratic. We also see how civil society becomes more difficult to operate, especially those organisations and people who work for gender equality, LGBTI issues, the environment and land rights. However, as I also said earlier here in our debate, over the last 30 years we have been able to see that global poverty has halved. Over 1 billion people were lifted out of poverty. But now the trend is moving backwards again for the first time since 1990. We're in the middle of a global pandemic. As I said earlier, according to the World Bank, between 40 and 60 million people are at risk of extreme poverty. The ILO fears that another 200 million jobs will disappear, and the World Food Programme predicts that another 130 million people will suffer acute food shortages due to the pandemic. This means that, as Mrs Adaktusson said, approximately 270 million people will suffer from acute food shortages, which is almost a doubling. The pandemic we are in is exacerbating an already serious humanitarian situation. Since the turn of the year, the number of people in urgent need has increased from 128 million to 400 million due to the pandemic. Now more than ever, we need to work together. We also need aid that is smart and effective. And from a Swedish perspective, we will ensure that every penny of tax is used correctly. We do not dispute that at all. We can also feel reasonably confident that Swedish aid is of a good order. It was assessed as late as 2019 by OECD-Dac, which concluded that it is of very good quality. In fact, it's world class. Swedish aid has also given us great respect in the outside world in relation to our size. That respect meant a lot during the time when we were in the UN Security Council. We are seen many times, despite our small size as a nation, as a voice of both independence and solidarity. That is something we should be extremely proud of. We should also be humbled that Sweden has gone from being a de facto aid recipient country to being one of the world's absolutely best countries from many different perspectives. Through the implementation of a reform policy, not least a Social Democratic reform policy, we went from being a developing country to being one of the world's largest donors in less than four generations. Our very long-standing humanitarian commitment is also a historic heritage that we have an opportunity to pass on to our children. It is also a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy. Through aid, we support the development of democracy and the rights of girls and women. We are preventing a climate crisis that affects us all. Quite simply, we are contributing to a more sustainable and fair world. Just as I said, the purpose of Swedish aid is not basically that it is 1% of bni. The Swedish goal of our aid is to reduce poverty and oppression worldwide, also in a situation as incredibly complex as it is right now. I would like to conclude by saying that I think everyone in here really understands that if, in the situation that I have just described, one third of Swedish aid is hijacked, the consequences will be devastating for the projects that Sweden is funding in vulnerable countries and regions. It will create human suffering where there is hope, death where there is cure and conflict where there is peace. Having said that, I would also like to emphasise that the Social Democrats stand up for the 1% target and for international solidarity at a time when it is really needed. We stand up for both humanitarian and long-term development aid that contributes to greater equality, reduced hunger, reduced hunger, reduced corruption and fewer conflicts. It also increases trade union rights, supports democracy development and contributes to a more sustainable, stable and secure world. In this way, we also contribute to a better and safer Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1096	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start this shift by stating that Sweden, as I said, has a uniquely large aid budget. Thus, Sweden spends more money in Swedish kronor than Canada, although Canada is a three times as big an economy as Sweden. The government's priority is to spend almost twice as much money on international aid as at the Police Authority at a time when we have a shooting a day and a blast a week. It says in the budget, and Fredrik Malm was into this in his speech, about more for more and less for less. The government states in the budget that aid will be reduced if democratic development in a country goes in the wrong direction. It's reasonable and good, I think. For example, the government has now announced that aid to Tanzania will be reassigned, and it is now saying that cooperation with state actors will be reduced. It is unclear how much – Annika Strandhäll will be happy to answer if she knows the answer. My question to Annika Strandhäll is: Should the principle that aid should be reduced if democratic development goes in the wrong direction also apply to corruption? We have a great deal of assistance and cooperation with state actors in a number of countries where corruption is extremely extensive. Could the Social Democrats imagine that the same principle should also apply to corruption? If corruption is not reduced, aid to state actors should be reduced.
i-HiQMjZZPQBGcBEXMbXp6Qh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for the question! Before answering it, however, I have to say briefly that yes, Sweden has a great deal of aid, and we have this on the basis of the reasons I have just outlined here in the speaker's chair. It contributes to building security and security, stability and sustainability and a better world – not only in our surrounding world but also in Sweden. Aid is smart. Swedish aid is effective. Swedish aid is also recently evaluated with the result that it achieves the goals we have set for Swedish aid. Then it must also be said that it will be extremely populist and truffled to put the Swedish Police Authority against the Swedish aid. I believe that all of us politicians understand the simplicity of the moderate argument about this, but also that it will be comparing apples and pears. Finally, I would like to say that yes, several examples have been mentioned here today that we have previously frozen aid in Cambodia and Belarus, and now we are reviewing aid to Tanzania. But the aim of Swedish aid is not to avoid everything that is difficult, but to contribute, particularly with development aid, to building institutions in these countries, to building more legally secure societies and to building more sustainable, fair and democratic societies. That is why development aid is so important. But, of course, we must constantly follow up, evaluate and re-evaluate if necessary.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1105	Mr President, I would like to I would like to inform Annika Strandhäll that we politicians do not have money, but we take money from people who work. And every year, here in the Swedish Parliament, we decide on a budget, how much money we should take from people and how we should prioritise spending them. The state's budget is not infinite. That is precisely why we need to be able to discuss and put spending areas against each other. Problems with aid to state actors are that it frees up funds that can be spent on other things, which may not be in line with Swedish values. I mentioned Tanzania. That is an example. There are far more. For example, we are giving support to the Palestinian Authority. It frees up resources for them to spend on other things, which may not be in line with Swedish values as I said. In 2019, 40% of our aid to Tanzania went to cooperation with state actors. That is a very large proportion of bilateral aid. How can Annika Strandhäll ensure that this aid does not risk strengthening the Tanzanian regime?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1108	Mr President, I would like to Politics is not just a priority, Magdalena Schröder. Politics is also to want. Politics is to have a vision of a good society. Politics is to have a vision of a safe and sustainable world. We can see that we have very different ideological views on this particular issue. As far as the Palestinian Authority is concerned, we support an environmental authority. Otherwise, Swedish aid to the Palestinian Authority is not available. Magdalena Schröder knows that. Ann Linde has answered that many times. I lost the question at the end. I'll have to get back to you.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1111	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Minister is not responsible here and can explain the priorities in the budget, but I hope Annika Strandhäll can provide answers to my questions. As a Swedish person with Finnish roots, I am proud that Sweden is a major donor with many good goals for its aid. One of the objectives is to improve people's democratic rights. Many areas are mentioned: freedom of expression, the right of LGBT people, women's empowerment and the right of disabled people to an equal life. On the other hand, freedom of religion is not mentioned in this year's budget. I wonder if it should be seen as a less important democratic right. In the past, the paradigm was that rich people's increased resources would somehow seep down to the poor. However, this has not proved to be the case. Reports show that low income inequality societies are the most equal and have significantly lower poverty rates. In this new spirit came Agenda 2030, in which one of the goals is to reduce inequality. Sweden has signed on to this. On top of the enormous inequality in the world, the pandemic has swept forward. We've been talking about all the consequences of that. The government has rightly recognised that this year's budget requires strong financial effort, but it has partly gone towards additional tax deductions and tax incentives that benefit the rich. Nothing extra has gone to aid. The government has not even removed the deductions on aid that goes to refugee reception. The budget states that the deductions are made in solidarity with those countries that are significantly poorer than Sweden and receive considerably more refugees. Would it not have been a greater act of solidarity if the settlements were abolished and that money was instead given as pandemic support to refugee camps?
i-TD1GNmwisUKJDAoDrminJZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Yasmine Posio, for the questions. When it comes to the commodity of religion or not being in this year's budget, I cannot answer why it does not appear. On the other hand, I know that there is no doubt on the part of the Socialist side about the importance of cooperating with various religious organisations in the field of aid. It is about reaching people, and 80% of the world's population has some form of faith. It's an important part. I would like to return to that question. Let's agree that trickle-down economics hasn't exactly helped in the way they originally launched and thought it would. As far as budgetary balances are concerned, this is something that the government does in cooperation with the cooperation parties. We have our January agreement on which we are based. Nor must it be forgotten, Yasmine Posio, that Sweden basically has a very generous and good aid. The Social Democrats stand up for that. On a more personal level, I may find the Corona billion proposed by the Left Party in its reservation exciting. I am sure that in many different ways we will have to deal with and discuss the aftermath of the pandemic, probably both in the area of aid and in other areas and prioritise in different ways.
i-UD7i1MzgHujny5BGmXY1yu	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for your answer! As I said in my first reply, I am proud of Swedish aid. But it does not blind me to what could be done better. The world is connected. What we do locally here in Sweden affects globally and vice versa. The UN, as well as a number of aid organisations, have said with a common voice that the pandemic has thrown away a great deal of the progress made in combating poverty. They say that we need to work together to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030. That is why we have proposed, for example, the Corona billion. On the other hand, the government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has chosen to give the rich even more by way of tax deductions and tax incentives. It is unfortunate when frighteningly many more people are at risk of poverty.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1124	Mr President, I would like to One should certainly not be blind because there is development potential for our aid, not least in the time we are living in. I also said in my speech that it is a matter of ensuring that every penny is actually used properly and as efficiently as possible. It is as always in politics; politics is the art of the possible. Nor should it be forgotten that the government is investing heavily in other areas that also raise those with the lowest incomes in Sweden. You can see this if you look at how the budget is allocated when it comes to various income deciles, for example.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1126	Mr President, I would like to This year has not looked like anything else, not to you, not to me, not to Sweden and not to the world. The global pandemic that has swept almost every country has put people's lives, health and economy at risk. We know that the world after Corona will not be the same as before and that it is up to us to rebuild something better. There are many of us living with the direct consequences of the pandemic. We cannot meet our parents, worry about an elderly relative, and see how many people's financial security is drastically drawn away from them. Globally, we see how poverty reduction and girls' access to school and education have been thrown back a long way. We have reason to be concerned about how long and how strongly the world's development will be affected by this past year. But like any other type of crisis, this one does not beat equally. It is already the most vulnerable who are most affected, and this applies both in Sweden and in the world. Just as, throughout the year in this House, we have been waiting for all the stones to change health care and to save jobs, businesses and livelihoods, the world and the international community must now work together to ensure that years of work for democracy and human rights and against hunger and poverty are not lost. During this year, extreme poverty has increased for the first time since 1998. In just one year the number of people suffering from acute hunger has doubled. We see how the crisis risks backing the development 10 – 15 years. Work on improving health, access to food, reducing child and maternal mortality and girls' access to education is being reversed. Mr President, I would like to In societies where the vast majority of citizens live for the day and out of hand, shutdowns in society have had terrible consequences. Hunger and poverty have put obstacles in the way of society's development, and there are many of us who are concerned about how long it will take to reverse this development. When schools and workplaces are closed, many, especially girls and women, have been forced back to the four walls of the home. If the world does not gather together now, we risk a development that will go backwards for a long time rather than forwards. When development in the world goes to the wrong place, Swedish aid and development work are more important than for a very long time. What we do and what we choose not to do will have consequences for a long time to come. Today we are facing an acute global climate crisis. It is the over-consumption of the rich minority that creates this crisis, but it is young people and people in poverty who are hardest hit by the consequences. In its report, the organisation Oxfam shows that the richest percentage in the world emits more than twice as much carbon dioxide as the poorest half of the world's population. Over the last 25 years, the richest 10% in the world have released a third of the global carbon budget that would enable us to meet the Paris targets. The poorest half have released 4% of the CO2 budget. It's an extreme inequality. It is time to break that trend. The time has come for rich countries to shoulder their responsibilities. We urgently need to strangle our emissions, and we need to pay for our climate debt by supporting the transition of poor countries. We have also committed ourselves to this in the Paris Agreement. Mr President, I would like to I have said it before, and I say it again: Swedish aid builds a better world. Sweden is, whatever the right-wing forces want us to believe, one of the richest and safest countries in the world. We have problems, and we will solve them. But it should not be at the expense of poor people and support for democracy in other parts of the world. To stand by the 1% target for Swedish aid was not too long ago a matter of course for all decent parties. Recently, however, more people with too much simplicity seem to want to reject it. Swedish aid works, and it works well. International evaluations and comparisons have repeatedly established that our aid is accurate and reaches the world's most vulnerable people. The Swedish support for strengthening democracy and civil society is particularly important. In countries such as Uganda, Zimbabwe and Tanzania, where democracy is challenged and threatened in various ways, the commitment of Sweden and the EU is a democratic counterweight. This applies not least to the dictatorship of China, which invests billions in developing countries in exchange for raw materials and resources. We shall continue to safeguard the foundations of democracy. We will fight corruption and give people the opportunity to take responsibility and influence society. We will continue to fight to make the world a better place. Aid is not charity, but it is also not funds to be used to solve domestic political challenges or to score political points at the expense of democratic development, adaptation to those most affected by climate change or human rights. It worries me that more and more parties seem to want to give up the idea that Sweden can contribute to a better and safer world. It is about parties that see aid as an item of expenditure that can patch and fix other holes in a budget that otherwise does not go together. It is as if the lack of aid would not be noticed or as if a reduction in the aid budget would not have any effect on the work that Sweden can contribute to by just safeguarding a high level of aid. The Moderates have made a signum to pull from the aid in order to fill other holes in a budget motion that normally does what it can to make the richest in Sweden even richer. It's tragic, but unfortunately not surprising. It is deeply sad that international solidarity is so weak. When the rest of us see a world that needs more help and support than for many years, the Moderates want to cut back on aid and deviate from the 1% target for which a broad majority has so far been in place. Swedish aid works. And every intended reduction is not a game of numbers, but it means that efforts for a better world are sacrificed in a political game. It is with our aid money that midwives are trained, women are given access to contraception, hospitals are built and democratic institutions are created. Every aid crown is an investment in a better world. That's exactly what every crown of gold is worth. With this in mind, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1140	Mr President, I would like to This is a report, on the basis of the 2021 budget for the energy expenditure area and on the basis of movements in this area. We in the Moderates abstain in the vote in favour of our particular opinion. During a pandemic like this with covid-19 is timing and priority A and O. It is in times like these that we are forced to see what is right here and now most important. There is no exception for the Energy expenditure area. What we intend most importantly to ensure is that sufficient fossil-free energy is produced and distributed where it is needed. Our companies and industries, Mr President, should be able to safely continue their transition to fossil-free production and development of their activities. Our companies want and should be at the forefront of climate-smart production. Policy must create opportunities for this. Electrification offers opportunities, but it also places demands on electricity supply. That has not been the case, Mr President. We see great concern among companies in southern Sweden in particular about the lack of sufficient energy capacity. We see concerns about how to dare to invest in further electrification of their business and concerns about where to dare to establish their business and their companies due to security of supply of electricity. Mr President, I would like to For us Moderates, the goal is a fossil-free electrical energy. That's our beacon. Only through this target can we create, in a reasonable time, electricity production that will meet the 2030 climate targets. We must abandon the goal of fully renewable energy. It is not reasonable, nor is it an effective climate policy. We want to refrain from spending 120 million on energy advice to individuals via our municipalities. This advice is still available online today. You can also buy those services. In addition, households have already made a fantastic journey and are energy efficient. Transport and our industry need to make their journey towards fossil-free energy. Instead, we want to invest 250 million more in energy research between 2021 and 2023. We see that technology is being developed in all forms of energy. Among other things, hydrogen and nuclear energy are areas where a great deal is now happening. The energy field has long put nuclear research in a position to wait. This needs to be broken. All fossil-free forms of energy are needed. Mr President, I would like to The processing times for electricity infrastructure need to be significantly reduced. Technology is developing rapidly in this area. This also applies to what electricity can be used for. It is not sufficient that the processing times for electricity infrastructure can be between 10 and 12 years in order to get the lines in place. It is the processing times that are a direct threat to the climate. Here you need to be more open to what type of wiring you use the smartest and how the different appeal processes can be better synchronised, so that you do not have long waiting times. Mr President, I would like to We also need to be open to the fact that several different technologies will be available in the form of both electrical and hydrogen technologies on the transport side. Mr President, I would like to We need a realistic energy policy, which clearly sees the challenges and accepts the challenges, not a policy that denies the facts and does not respond to the problems and challenges that exist. Only then can we build electricity generation and an electricity infrastructure that matches the challenges we face. If Sweden is to have an ambition to be the world's first climate-neutral welfare country, just as our companies and our entire society want, we cannot have blind spots. Then politics must move from denial and use facts to action.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1151	Mr President, I would like to There are parties like a nostalgic dream of new nuclear power. The Moderates are such a party. What the Moderates have been very good at is not telling you who's going to have to pay the bill, who's going to pay. This is an issue that is highly relevant, given how expensive new nuclear power is. I have looked at the latest figures from Bloomberg about how much it actually costs to build new power generation. I will draw some examples from the relevant comparable countries. In the United States it costs about 184 - 324 øre per kilowatt hour to build new nuclear power. That's a huge amount of money. This compares with the corresponding cost of wind power in the United States: 24 - 56 øre. I could tell you more examples. The same applies to France, the UK and Finland – as well as Sweden, if you just look at the cost of new wind power. Everywhere in the Western world where new nuclear power is being built – in the few places where you choose to do so – it costs huge amounts of money. This is something that always imposes subsidies, either directly from the state and taxpayers' money or through different kinds of mechanisms that make it the electricity customers who bear the cost. Who in Moderate Sweden will pay for the cost of new nuclear power?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1155	Mr President, I would like to This is how you can count, but you can also count in a different way. We will need a lot more electrical energy in the future, unlike what we previously thought – less electrical energy – if we are to meet the climate challenge. Then we can't just have wind power. I personally have absolutely nothing against wind power. It's a good form of energy. Unfortunately, it does not always exist when we need it. So far we have not developed battery functions or hydrogen functions that allow us to switch up to its base energy, so that it can be turned off and turned on when we need it. Making hydrogen out of wind power is so far very expensive. In between, the transformation required to create stable energy costs a great deal. Sweden is not Denmark, which has large agricultural production and a completely different economy. Sweden has an economy that is very much based on heavy industry, which requires an enormous amount of energy. In the past, we have been able to rely heavily on hydropower. Now that it's expanded, it's smart and climate smart. But it will be needed in Norrland for the industries that are there. It is not just to pull and create lines from Norrland to southern Sweden to balance up wind power. Then it's very nice to hear that Lorentz Tovatt thinks I'm nostalgic. I've been interested in energy since I was very young. I have seen everything from accumulator tanks to ethanol cars and everything, and I think that energy really is an area we need to do more research and develop more. On the contrary, it is against being nostalgic, which I really think it is Lorentz Tovatt who is right now.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1159	Mr President, I would like to You can be nostalgic in different ways. The worst way to be nostalgic is not to realize when a technology is past, not to realize when it is not possible to continue with a technique that has long passed the best before. Lotta Olsson chooses not to answer the question. This is simply allowed to float freely. Swedish taxpayers do not know whether they will receive an increased tax in order to pay new nuclear power in this way. Nor do they know whether they will be forced to have a significantly higher electricity bill to pay the Moderate nuclear power. It will be an unpleasant surprise if the accident were to occur and the Moderates take power after the next election. Nuclear power is not just expensive. It also takes a long time to expand. Lotta Olsson is in favour of other technologies. That technology is also much faster. It is also cheaper and is the fastest way for us to become fossil-free and avoid fossil emissions.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1162	Mr President, I would like to Lorentz Tovatt's energy policy will largely be based on our interacting with the world around us and importing and exporting electrical energy. Our energy minister often boasts how much we export. In Poland, it has been argued that it wants to stop coal mining and instead use nuclear energy as an energy source. The question then is: are we importing nuclear energy from Poland? How can you make such big investments in such a large country if you do not believe in new cheaper technology? It's the same as when Lorentz Tovatt and I buy the propellant. Maybe he'll buy a bike, and maybe I'll buy an energy-smart car. But the more you produce and the better the technology, the cheaper it gets. This will mean that we will become dependent on imports of basic energy instead of being self-sufficient. I don't know if I think it's better.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1163	Mr President, I would like to For some time, perhaps two years, the Moderates have talked a lot about nuclear power as the solution to the challenges of the energy system. Of course, you might think so. It somehow feels like the Moderates want to save nuclear power from the market. The market seems to want other forms of energy. It will somehow be a strange discussion. Of all the issues where the Moderates should make a much-needed criticism of unreasonable market effects, one could imagine starting with Stockholm's privatized healthcare or the devastating consequences of the profit hunt in school. But no, it's not like that. It is only when renewable energy production is prioritised before nuclear power that the Moderates see red. The position feels almost Soviet. It is like an old propaganda plank in which nuclear power embodies society's confidence in the future and confidence. My question is just like Mr Lorentz's question. Who will pay for the new nuclear power? You owe the answer. Are we the electricity consumers, or are we supposed to pay through the tax bill?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1168	Mr President, I would like to I wonder if we live in completely different worlds. Patrik Engström talks about who should pay. Does Patrik Engström not read the Swedish press? The entire industrial life in Sweden is very worried. They do not see that they should dare to invest and develop their companies and their jobs in Sweden. Then we risk something else that the Social Democrats have historically stood up for, namely jobs and development. I've been in medical care all these years. But I have never been able to see anything but that unless Swedish industry and Swedish industry can produce tax revenue and people can have jobs, we will not be able to afford a good health care and a good school that we have actually gotten used to. I am frightened that we believe it is static and something that will always exist. But this is not the case if Sweden cannot cope with competitiveness, does not have cheap energy and cannot attract the large battery plants. It is about that we can retain our steel industry and the highly qualified jobs in Sweden. If we can't, both Patrik Engström's and my pension will be lower. We may not have our hip surgery when that day comes. I don't know how to tell between the two things. It's connected. Historically, the Social Democrats have been extremely good at understanding the relationship between Swedish jobs, strong Swedish industries and the welfare society. Now it seems that that money comes from Santa Claus or something, and that's not the world. I think Patrik Engström should read a part of the Swedish press. I'm not the one writing this. Both me and the Swedish industry are very worried that they will not get long-term investments. The investments may go to Poland, which is investing in a safe base power in the future.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1173	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Lotta Olsson answered the question about who's going to pay. In any case, I understood the answer to be that it is the industry and we electricity consumers who are to pay a higher energy price. That's what it's all about in the end. It worries me, I must say. I myself come from the base industry. I know very well what stable energy means for an industry. You first dare to invest when you have a long-term perspective, just as we had in the energy agreement, and you believe in the future and that it will go well. Everything indicates that the conversion is going well. We've never produced as much electricity as we do now. We've never exported as much as we do now. At the same time, consumption of electricity fell in both private dwellings and industry in 2019.
i-QADk6r46XAkLceoXRKM3bb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Patrik Engström! If I have an amazing ice cream sale on Christmas Eve, it won't go so well. I need energy for my freezer in the summer. That is the problem. I do not understand that Patrik Engström, who comes from the industry, can believe that it will work as long as we cannot store energy. On the day that we have large halls that can cheaply store energy in batteries, we can switch to full wind power. But it will also require a huge amount more wind power in Sweden. Otherwise, we have not solved the problem. Instead of adding a battery factory in Skellefteå or in northern Sweden, it may be placed in Poland. I am concerned that we will lose in the welfare league and not be able to build this fine state.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1179	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the reservation contained in the report to be approved. Today we are debating the State's Category 21 Energy. It is a policy area that is central to a functioning society and a prerequisite for a competitive industry, especially for Sweden as an industrial nation. More recently and in recent years, we have seen a growing problem with situations where electricity shortages occur. This is something that comes from both bottlenecks in transmission capacity in the electricity grids and as a result of a significant reduction in the power balance. The power balance is a measure of how well we manage to support ourselves on electricity in Sweden during the winter and is calculated for every winter by the Swedish power grid. Throughout the period in which the Red-Green Government has been in power, the balance of effects has deteriorated for each individual year. It is six years in a row, and when the Swedish grid is now forecasting for the next three years, it is estimated that it will deteriorate for each individual year in time. The list is now becoming long with companies that in some cases cannot establish themselves or expand their activities due to the electricity shortage. It is directly bad for the individual company. But it is just as bad for society with both job losses and tax revenues, which makes Sweden poorer. It complicates and jeopardises the electrification that is now taking place and is planned to take place in society and is an important step towards fossil freedom. The government's handling of this problem has been characterised by naivety and disregard. The constantly recurring response from the government when discussing these problems is that Sweden exports a record amount of electricity and that we are net exporters of electricity seen all year round. It is an answer which also underlines the fact that nothing has been understood yet. How has it been done that way? For a long time, weather-dependent power generation has been rewarded by policy at the expense of planned power generation while the necessary capacity increases have not been implemented in the electricity grids. Since the entry into force of the Red Green Government, Vattenfall has been ordered to suspend its plans to build replacement reactors and has pushed for closures of fully functioning nuclear reactors. When shock - raising taxes on combined heat and power were quickly thrown out, they were convinced that this would not affect anything. But it was said that local politicians would now think that it would possibly affect, well then they will just have to run the works further and take responsibility for it themselves. As with so many other things, the problems were not seen to come, even though they were pointed out by many long before. This was something that could later have resulted in a reduction in electricity generation, and the conditions for greater new connections to the electricity grids decreased sharply in those regions. During July last summer the spot price in southern Sweden was almost ten times higher than the system price that applied to the whole country. There have never been such large price differences since Sweden was divided into four electricity price areas, which also enabled the reserve power plant in Karlshamn to burn oil on a commercial basis in the middle of high summer in Sweden. Swedish power networks were also forced to procure the operation of the Ringhals 1 nuclear reactor. Now that we are moving towards colder times, at the turn of the year we intend to shut down this reactor for good, and we will not have this opportunity either for next summer or for the coming winter. In a situation where it takes time to address the needs that have been pushed forward and that can be expected to increase in the electrification track, this is directly irresponsible, in our opinion – especially when it takes a very long time with permit processes and to build new electricity lines. It also takes a long time to expand power generation. Mr President, I would like to It is of course gratifying that, since the elections, more parties have joined the Swedish Democrats' proposal to stop the early closure of Ringhals 1, but it is equally regrettable that the closure will now be completed by the end of the year, with only one mandate being overweight in this House. From a socio-economic point of view, it should be obvious not to put oneself in an even more difficult position by shutting down further fossil-free power production. In Sweden, however, nuclear power has been allowed to take on a dwindling existence under the red-green government, which is taking place despite the strong popular opinion for nuclear power. It is also in stark contrast to the global development of nuclear power, where it has increased over these six years for each individual year. Sweden should instead increase its ambition for energy research and also broaden it to include nuclear research. Following an announcement by the Riksdag, the Government has changed its instructions to the Swedish Energy Agency, but so far none of the applications received have been granted. Instead, similar efforts are made by Swedish parties outside the country's borders. Among other things, the state-owned company Vattenfall participates in the development of small modular reactors in Estonia instead of in Sweden, a work that was recently deepened from preliminary study to letter of intent. We can also see a rapidly growing interest in hydrogen around the world, which delights the Swedish Democrats. We have repeatedly suggested that Sweden should adopt a hydrogen strategy that also finances other projects, beyond the Hybrid project, as well as looking at other sectors and how best to take advantage of this storage technology. Only recently, we saw Japan declare an ambition to produce 10 million tonnes of hydrogen annually before 2030, which corresponds to the electricity generation from 30 nuclear reactors. We think somewhere that the level of ambition needs to be increased and broadened to more sectors. All roads towards fossil freedom and the increased interest in hydrogen lead to an increase in electricity demand, not a decrease. If this is to be a possible forward, it is necessary not to consider whether electricity is available or not; it must work during all hours of the year. Competitiveness must be strengthened for planned power generation, such as hydroelectric power, nuclear power and cogeneration, which also brings other benefits to our energy supply. We need clear and concrete targets for security of supply and reduced lead times for new network constructions in order to overcome bottlenecks in transmission capacity. Energy policy must focus on a system perspective that includes costs for both production and transmission, and it must focus on cost-effectiveness. It should not lead us repeatedly into various dead ends.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1194	Mr President, I would like to I find it interesting to take Japan as an example when the Fukushima accident, which happened not so long ago, has still not been presented in a transparent manner. I read through your draft budget yesterday, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, and I got caught up in some of the words you wrote in the following way: ––– The Swedish Democrats therefore do not support the so-called 2030 target, which is unrealistic and risks stimulating measures that are sub-optimal from both an environmental and economic point of view. ..................................................... I would simply like to know how the Swedish Democrats view the climate crisis.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1197	Mr President, I would like to This is what is a little bit of a problem when it comes to environmental policy and also energy policy, namely that it leads away from different objectives. If we are to have the starting point of reducing our fossil dependence, energy policy should also be geared towards reducing the fossil share, but some parties have, on the contrary, agreed that we should narrow this down to include only renewables. It has also developed a subsidy system with electricity certificates that for almost two decades has had the express aim of driving fossil-free power generation away from the Swedish energy system. Then the problem is this: should we really have subsidies that reduce fossil-free power generation in favour of renewables? It's not something that saves the climate. It does not reduce emissions, but, on the contrary, it is a lot of steel and concrete that is being used. These funds could have been used much more effectively in other areas. Similarly, the closure of Ringhals 1 takes place at the turn of the year. The Economic Institute and others have looked at it and found that it increases emissions. We have the opportunity to push this forward, but it is more important for some parties to bring down certain fossil-free forces – usually nuclear – even if more carbon dioxide is released. That is the problem: we should direct it to being fossil-free. It is fossil freedom that is important, and if we have that focus, we will also improve cost-effectiveness and be able to meet the ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1201	Mr President, I would like to I am surprised that it is said that the subsidy for renewable energy would be a negative thing. It is felt that the subsidy should actually be directed towards fossil-free, which then includes nuclear power. At the same time, the figures on the costs of nuclear power, which are incredibly high, have been reported in this House. We have also seen that wind power and solar cells, among other things, have become more efficient, so that we get prices down properly and so on. So there will be a huge difference between the subsidy that the Swedish Democrats want and the subsidy that is actually required to have renewable energy here in Sweden. Now I cannot find the right paragraph in the draft budget, but there is a reference to an ideological starting point in energy policy. However, you have got the facts in this Chamber, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, so I wonder a little about it.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1203	Mr President, I would like to For example, if we look at the electricity certification system, which has cost electricity consumers over 100 billion since it was introduced in 2003, we can see that the fossil share in the Swedish power system was about 2 per cent then. It is still 2% today. It is 100 billion that has gone to increase the renewable share but put down fossil-free power generation. Nothing saves the climate. It will not reduce emissions; instead, it has increased emissions by replacing already existing fossil-free power generation with renewables. If we were to save the climate and reduce CO2 emissions as much as possible, we would not have done this, but we would have taken other measures. That's what we're saying is the problem. It is cost-effectiveness that must be sought in order not to land in other special interests or ideological dreams that renewables are more important than anything else. The focus should be on becoming fossil-free and thus reducing greenhouse gas emissions as cost-effectively as possible.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1205	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Bäckström speaks very warmly about fossil-free, of course, and especially about nuclear power. There are well-known positions between us on these kinds of issues. However, we can still note that renewable electricity production in recent years has drastically pushed the prices of electricity to consumers. I think that somehow feels important to have with me. But to my question to Mattias Bäckström. The international community's researchers, located in the COP Panel on Climate Change, point to the importance of doubling national subsidies and renewable investment by 2030. But the Swedish Democrats wanted to reduce or remove these efforts. We Social Democrats think we take responsibility. We listen to research; we are a climate party. We want to make it easier for people to make these decisions so that we move towards renewable and emission-free energy in our country. But the Swedish Democrats choose not to listen to this. My question is: why do you choose not to listen to the scientists of the international community who say that we need more support for renewable energy?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1209	Mr President, I would like to The difference here is that you have to look at what it looks like from the beginning. In the 1970s, Sweden had a fossil share of energy supply of up to 70 to 75 per cent, which has now fallen to about one third of all energy supply. What we did between 1972 and 1985 was to expand nuclear power in Sweden. We got a completely fossil-free power system in practice. It is already up to 98 – 99 percent fossil-free. The fossil share of our power system is only 1 – 2 percent. What makes Sweden different from the rest of the world is that there is the reverse relationship. It still has a fossil share in the energy supply of 80 to 85 percent. There, it is very justified to ensure that the fossil share is rapidly forced out. But in Sweden we have not managed to reduce that proportion. We have devoted the subsidies that have gone to renewables to eliminating fossil-free power generation. I do not think this is what is meant in a global context, if we are now to reduce greenhouse gas emissions maximum – that fossil-free production should be pushed away. In this context, it is the fossil-based energy laws – coal, oil and gas – that we want to push away, but these we do not have in the power production in Sweden to a large extent. You have to take the system perspective with you. Yes, we have had a development with relatively low energy prices if you look at the clean energy price. However, I do not think that electricity customers recognize themselves in the Social Democrats' description that the electricity bill they receive has been drastically reduced and that it is so incredibly cheap to use electricity in the apartment or villa. What has instead increased is the cost of the transmission, the transmission. Both of these elements are of interest to the end customer: the sum of the cost of the energy and of the transmission. There we must have cost-effectiveness in order to get the most optimal power system.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1213	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mattias Bäckström about a lot of what he said in this line. I note that electricity prices have been pushed back by very renewable production in the grid. Mattias Bäckström is, of course, right in terms of network costs. But if we have high grid costs and high energy prices, it will be, I would say, not at all good. Network costs are high, and I would say that we have poor electricity grid regulation which has meant that we have not invested in networks to the extent that we should have done for quite a few years. The government will present a number of proposals and has done a number of things to overcome this. However, as previous speakers have said, it takes a long time.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1216	Madam President, I would like It is interesting and gratifying to hear that even Social Democrats can agree with much of the reality of the Swedish Democrats. Here you can look at what big electricity consumers think. For a long time, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has been working on a project that is about looking at what is the most cost-effective. They have looked at different designs with different mixes of fossil-free power generation and the costs this entails in different parts. They are interested that it should be as cheap as possible over time to get energy. This clearly shows that the system cost of the fossil-free power system, which includes nuclear power, is 40% lower than that of 100% renewable. This, I think, is what the Social Democrats should take with them. One must understand that the system costs the entire power system, and there everything points to that this mix between weather-dependent, base power and hydro power gives the lowest system cost in Sweden.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1219	Madam President, I would like In the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to the budgetary policy than we wish from the Left, so we refrain from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in Category 21 on energy. The left-wing budget option should be seen as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out or treated in isolation. But this gives me the opportunity to present our policy in this area. We from the Left Party have a budget that invests in reducing the huge gaps that exist in Sweden today. Our budget also aims to strengthen welfare and transform into a greener society. We do this by reforming the tax system in order to allocate resources where they are most needed. If this is something that the pandemic has shown, it is that we all benefit from having a strong common society. It also shows that crises hit those already affected by economic and social disparities in society hardest. Despite the major challenges we face, where most parties are propagating because we have to stick together, the government chooses to spend billions on, for example, cash services and on reducing income tax for the rich. Clearly, we look differently at what needs to be prioritised and how we need to do that work. In our budget, we spend about 70 billion more than the government on reforms that could start work to build a stronger, fairer and greener society for all. The economic differences and the effects they have on us, as individuals but also as a collective, are very interesting. Yesterday I read Oxfam's report Swedish climate inequality – The need for a fair transition. I recommend more people to read it. It begins with the following text: Swedish CO2 emissions have decreased since 1990 – but this is in principle only due to reductions in medium and low income groups. The 10 richest percentages have barely contributed to the reduction in emissions. In order to achieve the deeper and faster emission reductions needed – to keep the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C within reach – Sweden's and, above all, the richest Swedes' emissions must decrease radically by 2030. ..................................................... Sometimes we are told that it is other countries that have to shoulder their responsibilities on the climate issue, but here Oxfams, Stockholm Environment Institutes and other previous reports show that the issue is more complex than that. For example, between 1990 and 2015, Sweden was responsible for 2.1 billion tonnes of CO2 in cumulative emissions. That is as much as the poorest half of Africa's population, a group of 432 million people. The richest 10 percent in Sweden had a carbon footprint that was 24 times greater than the poorest 50 percent globally. But even the 50 percent in Sweden with the lowest income had a carbon footprint that was almost 7 times greater than the poorest 50 percent globally. Within the EU, Sweden's average carbon footprint is among the lowest due to a higher share of renewable energy and a less dependent on fossil fuels. But still the richest 10% in Sweden had a carbon footprint more than twice the average for an EU citizen. This shows that our economic policy is on the spot! Today, therefore, it is the half of Sweden's population that has the lowest income that accounts for a 16 per cent reduction in emissions, while the richest part, the 10 per cent climate attacks, has contributed a 1 per cent reduction in emissions. This should, if anything, demonstrate the importance of economic equality and that redistribution would make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. With the income of the 10 richest percentages in our society, I am sure they would not suffer significantly from a tax increase, but we could do so much. Madam President, I would like I believe that energy policy has a crucial role to play if we manage to change, and for that we need to invest more. This may seem an excellent idea to curb the consequences of the pandemic. Let the rich and the capital help create the conditions and at the same time reduce their own consumption and emissions! Madam President, I would like The Left Party's goal is to achieve a society with 100 percent renewable energy by 2040. We believe that the public can lead the way by installing solar and wind power in public buildings such as schools and hospitals. In this way, we drive development forward, create jobs, boost the economy and expand renewable energy. In our budget we have allocated SEK 1 billion for this during 2021. Other proposals in our budget are that one of our largest energy companies, State Waterfall, rather than demanding profits, should invest in the expansion of wind power. Again, the key to investing is to drive progress forward. This is part of the proposals for a comprehensive investment plan that we in the Left Party have put forward. It's on our generation to change the whole of society to cope with the climate. It is very concrete: Sweden needs to be rebuilt. We must do so in order to achieve zero emissions and make it possible to live good and rich lives in a sustainable way. The Left Party wants Sweden to make massive investments in the coming years to create jobs, meet the necessary needs and change for the climate. Over time, we are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars that need to be invested at government level. Our proposal includes a total investment of approximately SEK 30 billion already in 2021. I would also like to take this opportunity to talk a little about our energy system. For the Left Party, it is essential that the infrastructure for the energy system, i.e. the electricity grid, should be owned by society through, for example, the state or the municipality. Liberalisation has not led either to lower prices or to greater security for consumers, on the contrary. It is clear that the electricity market needs to be fundamentally redesigned. Electricity production needs to be seen as part of society's infrastructure that we jointly build up based on society's needs. Here the parties must be mature enough to admit that liberalisation has not produced the results expected when trying to sell the concept. Today, people are desperately trying to patch up the parts that do not work, but they are not willing to change the foundation.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1236	Madam President, I would like A year ago, I stood here in the speaker's chair and said that we Christian Democrats are in favour of a policy of security and security of energy supply, which is an important engine in Sweden's economy and crucial to prosperity. Swedish companies and consumers should be able to trust that there is a stable and reliable electricity supply no matter where they live or operate in the country. This is still the case and is more topical than ever. Sweden has several exciting challenges ahead of it when it comes to changing. We see that both industry and the transport sector are on the train. Last time, LKAB told us about its investments. It is very gratifying that companies take responsibility for the transition, but it also requires courage from the policy to achieve it. For this investment by LKAB alone, one third of the electricity production Sweden has today is required. The other day we were able to take note of the alarm from the industry that an acute electricity shortage can be what forces companies to move abroad, which would be devastating for Sweden. This is something that the government with Ygeman in the lead dismisses and does not want to comment. As recently as last summer, Swedish power grids were forced to take emergency measures to cope with operational safety in southern Sweden. On short notice, agreements were quickly procured to make Ringhals 1 available and the Karlhamnsverket was launched to improve voltage stability and provide short-circuit effect. Otherwise, serious errors could have occurred. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for leadership that takes responsibility for the fact that there is enough electricity in the right place at any given time, and that is not the case today. When major shortcomings in electricity supply are repeatedly pointed out and when concerns have become a part of the industry's everyday life, it has an impact on the future to the extent that we need to take action. If nothing is done in the near future, more companies will have to reconsider whether Sweden gives them the best conditions. It is of great importance what signals policy sends to investors regarding start-ups of, for example, new industries, data and server halls and so on. We Christian Democrats think it is time to take these concerns very seriously. Madam President, I would like It is a challenge but also an asset that we have ahead of us, and I mean the power of electrification. More and more reports show that we need more electricity in the future, not less electricity, if we are to meet the climate challenges. If electrification is to succeed, the energy issue is incredibly important. Here we Christian Democrats want to see a future for hydroelectric power and nuclear power as well as wind, solar and bioelectric power. Sweden today has an energy mix that we should be proud of, and we will need more of everything. Our common enemy in this should be coal and oil, and the ambition must be for us to push fossils out in a responsible way. In Sweden there is an energy target of 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040, while at the same time not closing the door to nuclear power. This needs to be clarified because there is obviously enormous scope for interpretation in this. Sweden needs to clarify its ambitions for how Sweden's energy policy should be interpreted. We therefore believe that an updated energy target should be tested, where we want to see an energy target of a 100% fossil-free electricity system, so that nuclear power can remain in place even after 2040. Among our proposals you will also find a number of changes that we believe will be required to reverse the trend that is now developing if we are to meet the climate targets and maintain Sweden's competitiveness. Firstly, planning for increased use of electricity should be based on an electricity demand of at least 200 terawatt hours if all commitments are to be met. I also said this a year ago, and the question is whether the figure does not even have to be raised substantially. All non-fossil forms of energy are needed here, but even an extended electricity grid is crucial if this is to be locked. Secondly, set up a parliamentary Energy Commission which, with the help of expert expertise, prepares the basis for a broad agreement on a long-term, sustainable and efficient energy policy that meets the needs of industry, households and society as a whole. Thirdly, a security of supply target with a designated responsible person, which we in this House have also decided, will be set out. Today, no one is responsible for the long-term availability of electricity in the grid, which means that everyone is acting in the short term. Fourthly, Sweden needs a developed electricity market model. It needs to be reviewed so that it better steers towards security of supply. Today, the energy market pays for energy, but there is no incentive to provide quality or effect, that is, enough energy at a given moment. An electricity system that pays for these characteristics would be more robust. Fifthly, we believe that further efforts and efforts are needed in nuclear research. Madam President, I would like In repeated analyses of the power balance, Swedish power networks have found that the margins in Swedish electricity supply are on the decline. The latest report of June this year confirms the negative trend. The forecast for the following years is assumed to continue in a negative direction if planned power is lost. Current capacity shortages are hampering growth. The transmission capacity from north to south must be increased. The licensing processes, which can now be delayed, must be shortened so that the need for extended networks around the country can be met within reasonable timescales. The measures proposed in the so-called 2019 network concession investigation are in many parts welcome, but the time savings the proposals would provide do not live up to the needs. Further measures should be developed as soon as possible with a view to simplifying and substantially accelerating permit granting processes.
i-JUsgHPtPvNsQYCD8X2CXJE	Madam President, I would like Camilla Brodin did not mention the grant 1:10 Local and regional capacity development for climate and energy conversion. This grant rejects the Christian Democrats and Camilla Brodin. What, then, is this? Yes, it's energy and climate advice. It is a free service from your municipality, and the advice is basically about consumer information for ordinary people and small businesses. Here's what Mattias Ahlstedt, Regional Development Manager at Region Dalarna's Energy Office said: We have not had this on record before, but we have known that the advice leads to action. ..................................................... Then why did he say this? Well, Sweco has done an impact analysis on behalf of the Swedish Energy Agency on climate and energy advice and how well it works. It turns out that half of those who contact an energy and climate advisor are doing at least one measure, usually several. Why, Camilla Brodin, do you reject this grant when it obviously works?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1256	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Patrik Engström, for the question! I think it is quite simple: if you read a little more, you will see that we also have a grant for this to happen on a national basis. If you have a climate advice service in each municipality, the skills do not look the same in 290 municipalities. In order for us to get measures in place in real life and ensure that our tax funds go to the right resources, we believe that a national climate advice service is a much better way to manage tax revenue than that it should be available in each municipality. It should be easy to do the right thing, and that is surely the main point on this issue.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1258	Madam President, I would like I note that the 1:10 grant is 120 million, and the Christian Democrats choose to add 10 million, if I remember correctly, under the Energy Agency's grant, 1:1. Camilla Brodin is absolutely right: it can also be energy advice. But it is quite different in scope. Has this led to action? The investigation shows it has. Electricity consumption in Sweden for 2019 fell by 2.5 per cent in households and by 3.3 per cent in industry. I am not saying that it is only due to climate and energy advice, but it may indeed be the case that long and diligent work with climate and energy advice is producing results. At least I think that's fantastic and well-invested money.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1261	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that Patrik Engström had any further questions for me but that he nevertheless thought it was good that we invested in national advice and that the Christian Democrats take responsibility for managing our tax funds well. Here we have different types of taxes that the Social Democrats are trying to get as climate smart, ranging from the chemical tax to plastic bag tax. We can only build on it with cogeneration tax and so on. However, if we are to continue in this way, we will not achieve the climate targets in time. We'd be happy to discuss where our taxes are going. I urge Patrik Engström to read our entire budget, so he sees that they also go to health care, welfare and security. That is our primary task in creating the common good in our society.
i-JArunnu3j6JpY85ErY47cj	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating 2020/ 21:NU3 Area of expenditure 21 Energy. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation. The report contains a reservation and three specific opinions. As usual, the political right wants to reduce the funding framework of the spending area, while the left wants to increase the framework. Nothing new under the sun, in other words. Energy policy is long-term and largely a consequence of the Energy Agreement. This means that energy policy aims to reconcile security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability. Energy policy creates the conditions for a long-term secure and sustainable energy supply at competitive prices, which can provide new jobs, new businesses and increased exports. The question then may be asked is whether we see any positive effects. The 2019 electricity year offered several records. Wind power produced like never before. Total electricity production has never been so high. We net exported a record amount of electricity, while the use of electricity in both households and the industrial sector decreased. The production of electricity from hydropower and cogeneration was at fairly stable levels. Nuclear power went down slightly. The solar revolution continues. 40 000 households now have solar electricity on their roofs. The industry expects 10 000 people to be employed in that industry by 2023 – 10 000 people! Wind power expansion has exploded since the energy agreement, and investments are up to 100 billion. The wind power industry says they will employ about 12 000 people. The effect of the rapid deployment of renewable electricity is, on the one hand, that the electricity certification system is closed ten years earlier than planned and, on the other hand, that the price of electricity has been severely depressed for consumers. The development of biofuels is positive over time and demand is predicted to increase with increased quota levels. Preem is now planning for large-scale biofuel production in Lysekil and can become Scandinavia's largest biofuel producer. Another very positive sign that is worth lifting up is Northvolt's investment in Västerbotten's pearl Skellefteå. It invests most per capita in Sweden. This is about perhaps 18 000 new jobs. Congratulations, Västerbotten and Skellefteå, I say! You're clear winners in the energy transition. Of course, we want to see these developments throughout the country. As a dalmas, I look forward with confidence to the large investments in server halls planned in my municipality of Avesta. Göran Johnsson spoke wisely when he was chairman of Metall, namely that it is when we cling to old technology that jobs are threatened. With new technologies, we strengthen our competitiveness and secure jobs and welfare in the future. Madam President, I would like We also see that the transition places new demands on society. We have heard this before in this House. In order to achieve the energy and climate policy objectives, there is a need for continued strong investment in research and innovation in the energy sector, also with a focus on growth and exports. In the grant there is 50 million to finance investments in fossil-free aviation, including research and development linked to electric flights. The Energy Agency receives substantial increases in funding and a number of new assignments. Among other things, the Authority will become a national centre for CCS development. In order to speed up the expansion of Sweden's electricity grid, the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate will be strengthened. Fossil dependence in the transport sector must be broken. This is why new aid is being introduced to speed up the electrification of heavy road transport. The initiative also includes electrification with hydrogen operation and hydrogen tank infrastructure. Biogas support will be extended and the Energy Authority will examine the need for additional instruments to promote biofuel production. The fuel change continues through successive increases in the reduction levels. There will be support for investments in solar cells for municipalities and companies in 2021. A green deduction is introduced for individuals who install green technology, such as solar cells or storage. Energy and climate advisors will be strengthened and reach more. More reinforcements are also being made for civil defence and security measures for a more robust energy sector. As society is electrified, electricity grids and the electricity market at all levels need to be developed, expanded and used more efficiently. In the debate, it may sound like nothing is done, but it is of course wrong. Swedish power networks make historically large investments in transmission networks, and also regional and local actors make investments in their networks. New solutions are emerging to solve the capacity shortage in both the long and short term. Some examples are the electricity network dialogue, sthlmflex here in Stockholm and the electrification strategy. The planned investment of Swedish power networks is SEK 17 billion up to 2023. Until 2029, we are talking about 60 billion. In addition to this, a number of other investments are made outside Category 21, such as 900 million for energy efficiency measures in multi-dwelling buildings and the industrial environment, which are broadened and strengthened for the order of 750 million. The energy transition is good for the climate while Sweden's competitiveness is strengthened and new jobs are created throughout the country. What, then, is the difference between the parties in the field of energy? As usual, the political right wants to reduce the funding. What is common to the right is the resistance to supporting solar cells and the expansion of renewable energy production as well as energy advice. At the same time, they want to save nuclear energy from the market with targeted research funding. The left wing increases the funding by 1 billion, which is in short an offensive effort. Madam President, I would like The budget proposal for 2021 breathes hope for the future in a very difficult time. Together we will work Sweden out of the crisis and build society more sustainable. The government is proposing reforms of 105 billion. This is a powerful green economic re-launch to get Sweden out of recession and get people back to work as quickly as possible. These are green investments, additional resources for welfare and tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship. In addition, security and the possibility of a transition in the labour market for those affected by unemployment and need to adapt are improved. These measures contribute to increasing the pace of climate change, supporting the recovery and increasing employment in the country. When Sweden was electrified 150 years ago, society was characterized by faith in the future. Let's do it again. We have the best conditions in the world to make it. We have great access to energy, and we have an energy industry at the forefront. But we're gonna have to help each other. If a small country is to face major challenges, we need to do so together.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1287	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Patrik Engström a few questions after his speech. How can government energy policy strengthen competitiveness? Now you should know that not all countries have an infrastructure and industry that Sweden has. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has recently gone out with the fact that in order to achieve the absolutely cheapest and smartest energy approach in a country like Sweden, one-third water, one-third nuclear power and one-third wind and sun are needed. Wind and sun are expanding a lot. It is far from a third, but the more wind and solar power we build, the greater the value of hydropower and nuclear power to balance. It would be a shame if Sweden lost its competitiveness. It is not that Sweden will become like Denmark, that is, a country that produces a huge amount of food instead. Our entire economy is based on our export goods that come from heavy industry and require a lot of electrical energy. Hybrid is a fantastic project. We've made a study visit there. It is huge with the aim of being able to produce steel without using coal from Australia. But this means that we expect hydropower from northern Sweden to balance wind and solar power, but then the industry in Norrland will need that energy itself. It is not that Patrik Engström thinks that we should not promote this development in northern Sweden in terms of new technology and new industrial products and instead send it to Skåne and put the lid on it? I have some misgivings.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1291	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson for the questions. I think Lotta Olsson agrees that developments today are extremely positive. There are low prices of electricity, which means that companies, such as server halls and Northvolt, choose to invest in Sweden. It's absolutely fantastic, and it's great for Sweden. We must, of course, be careful of this. The energy mix is extremely important. What the energy mix will look like in 2040 I dare not speculate about. Nuclear power competes on the same terms, I would say, as other forces. But we're not there yet. When the market believes that building new nuclear power, for example, is worthwhile, these initiatives will be taken. They haven't been taken yet. I don't know if they'll be taken. Many talk about the new, fourth or fifth generation nuclear power plants. These are small nuclear power plants that you should be able to have in different places and so on. I have no idea. I am also following developments with curiosity and interest, but to lock myself in and have a strong and tough position in this right now I think is unfortunate. Who knows – P wow to G as and then back to electricity again via hydrogen? Today it's expensive. How are things tomorrow? Maybe that's what it looks like. I have seen figures that that option is about 30% cheaper than new nuclear power. I dare not take poison that it is true, but the technological developments mean that we should look to the future instead of growing extremely much concern. I think that would be unfortunate.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1297	Madam President, I would like I really do not want to be the one who is growing concern, but I think that we need to be forward-looking. It is with the Energy Act just like with the infrastructure; this is nothing that we can create until tomorrow. We certainly do not want to see any more back-up power plants set up because we have not looked in time at what we might need in the future. At the same time, I do not think that Patrik Engström should be worried that there will be a surplus. We're gonna need a lot more. If we are to reset and electrify everything that is fossil today, it will be good for the Swedish economy and for our jobs. But it will also require a great deal more electricity, and that is not enough just to save it. In addition, it is these 105 billion that are to be invested in green jobs; that is also what is to be paid for. I don't understand this that some things are going to pay off completely and some things aren't.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1301	Madam President, I would like Let us note that Lotta Olsson and I do not really agree on these issues. I would like to remind you of the energy agreement that we had and which the Moderates chose to drop out almost exactly a year ago. It was precisely the issues we are debating in this House today that were on the table and that we were going to take with us in the next energy agreement. But you chose to leave the table. That was deeply unfortunate, and I think you need to be reminded of that. In that constellation, we could have done a great deal to overcome the challenges we have today and in the future in the energy system.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1304	Madam President, I would like I listened interestedly to you, Patrik, here, and I see that there are some ambitions in you. That's good. But I think that leaves a lot of questions behind. You applaud both Hybrid and Northvolt. I don't understand how it's supposed to all go together, because the plan isn't there. The industry is screaming for help for the entire electricity system to work for Sweden as a country and for us to be able to show that we are competitive in the future. Here the industry says that an acute electricity shortage will cause them to look at other parts and may not be present in Sweden. This is an incredibly important part. We have a capacity and power shortage that has been patched and fixed with temporary contracts and agreements, and the electricity shortage is here. It's not something you can turn a blind eye to. My question is really: how do you intend to resolve all these issues?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1308	Madam President, I would like Just as I said just now to Lotta Olsson, I find it unfortunate that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats chose to leave the energy agreement, because these were exactly the issues we had on the table. We were on our way, but the Christian Democrats chose to make the deal. What do we do now? That is a relevant question that Camilla Brodin is asking. What I think is by far the most important thing is precisely the lack of capacity in the networks. It's super important. We have seen that, and we understand it in every way. The online concession investigation has arrived, and in the near future the government will take it to the Riksdag to address the lead times. But that's only part of the solution, I would say. That is why we have an electrification strategy that brings together politicians and industry to address these issues. It is extremely important, and perhaps the fastest way forward. How can we solve things together, both politically and between authorities and companies? The door is open to find good solutions. If the Christian Democrats feel that it might not be so good to leave the energy agreement, they are welcome back so that we can work further strategically in the forum where we still addressed the issues in a structured way, which I feel is very positive. That will be my question to Camilla Brodin: are you prepared to come back to the energy agreement?
i-e8e40301e832376e-1313	Madam President, I would like If we start with the energy agreement, which we chose to leave a year ago, it is no secret that we sent in the very questions that I address now about a year before we reached the agreement. And we did not get an answer to the questions or whether we were prepared to discuss them at all. To make these statements at this stage is not fair anywhere, because both you and I were in this group. It is gratifying that we can now consider this. I also put forward a proposal for an Energy Commission to be a broad parliamentary assembly to address the very issues for which we did not hear. But the question here is also somewhere: How can you interpret energy goals? Are the Social Democrats ready to actually retain existing nuclear power in Sweden's electricity production? There is obviously some social democrat in Halland who is prepared to do so.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1316	Madam President, I would like I can see that we have a slightly different picture of the reality of the energy agreement. That makes it difficult, I think. I think it is important that we work on electricity grid issues in a structured way. I think it was unfortunate that the government had to withdraw the electricity grid regulation proposal, because it was a step along the way. But now we may be on our way and can agree on something, and that is a good thing. We have a number of other measures rolling, and Camilla Brodin knows that very well. But I think it needs to be done more. I really believe that, so I believe in conversations in the groupings that exist. If these groupings are not enough, then we politicians should probably think more seriously about how to take the next step. It must not be the case that the electricity grids are holding back the development of society. That would be devastating.
i-9mKNYQ33q7vRKymGVSVwYA	Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes the Government's proposal for funding for 2021 within Expenditure Area 21 Energy. That amounts to about 4 1⁄2 billion. Having said that, we also want to criticise the fact that some of the investments are being sent to the future. They should be done in the near future, given the long lead times we have. In the budget negotiations, the Center Party has placed great emphasis on increasing energy demand in Sweden, while increasing the share of renewable energy in the system. This is a prerequisite for the transition as well as for continued growth. It also contributes to increased resilience in society while ensuring the future of the energy sector to become more sustainable and competitive. Madam President, I would like In the re-launch that needs to take place, it is important that forward-looking green technology initiatives are given a lot of scope, technologies that also allow for an increased share of renewable energy and that can meet future challenges in the energy system. In total, the Center Party in the budget negotiations ran to set aside SEK 3 billion over three years in an environmental technology package that includes investments in negative emissions, a green deduction, broadening of the Industriklivet, solar cell support and bioeconomy. We have also been the driving force for increasing domestic production of biofuels, for faster and more predictable licensing processes, for improved conditions for small and medium-sized renewable energy producers and for a third cable to Gotland, for example. Madam President, I would like What needs to be done forward? The Center Party says we need to plan for an increased energy demand. We know that Sweden's energy needs will increase in the coming decades as a result of electrification of society combined with an increasing number of electricity-intensive activities. This will require planned efforts in the long as well as in the short term. The Center Party believes that it is important to give Swedish power grids, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Energy Market Authority a mandate to plan for and expand more capacity in the electricity system. Planning should be based on a significantly higher use of electricity in society over the next 20 years. Madam President, I would like Minus emissions are the next step. It is an important first step that the Swedish Energy Agency is made the Centre for Bio-CCS and is preparing to carry out reverse auctions that will enable negative emissions in Sweden. The fact that public funds have been allocated for this is necessary, but in the long run Sweden must be the driving force for instruments to be developed at EU level in the context of emissions trading. We see it as logical that if those who pollute are to pay for their environmental damage, those who capture carbon dioxide should also receive a bonus. We also want to prepare in the long term for the storage of carbon dioxide to take place in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The state processes are taking too long. An absolutely fundamental factor for our future energy system is that the condition processes are much shorter, more predictable and more legally secure. The Center Party is pushing to halve the processing times, which is absolutely necessary to secure our livelihoods in the coming decades and to a large extent a prerequisite for the whole transition. The Center Party also wants more guidance to be given in case of potential conflict of interests and more demands on technology rather than rejecting the application. The Swedish Armed Forces' restricted areas must be able to coexist more with renewable energy production. Solar cells shall be required to be interference-free. Technical solutions are already available, and good examples of coexistence exist in other countries. Madam President, I would like We need to review electricity grid regulation and electricity law. The Center Party is behind the Energy Agreement that was concluded in 2016. Although several parties have unfortunately dropped out since then, it forms a solid foundation and is an important tool for Swedish energy policy. The Energy Agreement provides the conditions necessary to create the long-term and predictability of energy policy. However, there is a clear need for further reforms. We want to review both electricity grid regulation and electricity law. Here changes need to be made to allow for an increased energy demand combined with an increased share of renewable energy. We need to remove outdated rules and adapt the regulatory framework to technological developments in the energy sector. The Center Party is therefore, and has always been, ready for cross-block discussions to tackle the challenges we face in energy policy. We have a lack of capacity in the networks, but Sweden has good access to large amounts of wind, water and biopower that provide us with electricity, energy and fuels with low climate impact. Bioenergy is already the largest energy source, and the potential to expand is high, both on a large and small scale. The transition to a renewable electricity system is fast and renewable sources are competing out the fossil fuels. There are good conditions for a fully renewable electricity system, which also makes us independent of worrying changes on the world market or around the world. One of the major problems in the Swedish electricity system is not the supply of energy but the availability of local capacity, that the electricity produced does not reach where it is needed. We are already seeing major problems both in metropolitan areas and in smaller towns because electricity networks are not sufficiently expanded and local production inside cities is being shut down or not expanding to the extent that needs are increasing. To remedy these problems, we need new solutions. Building new large-scale electricity generation, such as nuclear power, does not remedy the problem because it involves bottlenecks in urban networks and a lack of local electricity generation. Instead, we need to increase local power generation and strengthen transmission capacity. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to see more force taken to enable flexibility services and markets. For example, through a more flexible electricity tax that varies according to demand, the load can be reduced when the pressure is at its hardest, which also creates new business opportunities for storage when demand is low. Smart, connected devices and smart grids can also increase user flexibility and relieve grid load. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to lift the third cable to Gotland. Gotland was promised a third power cable since Svenska Kraftnät took a specialization decision in 2009 to implement 1000 megawatts of transmission capacity to the island. In 2017, however, this work was interrupted when Svenska Kraftnät announced that the project with the Gotland cable was completed. In its regulation letter for 2020, the Swedish power network was commissioned to evaluate how Gotland's electricity supply can be secured. The conclusion is that a third electric cable is needed. We look forward to the reporting on the processes ahead that Svenska Kraftnät should now provide. We will be on the government in order for the whole country to have a stable electricity supply, both the cities with capacity challenges and Gotland with poor mainland connections. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1338	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a fun debate! This is an extremely urgent issue, as has been pointed out. It is quite obvious to those of us who live in this small, cold country high up, far away from all other countries, or most other countries anyway, that electricity and energy are something absolutely fundamental to human prosperity – ultimately for our civilization. The fact that we can stand here today, rather late, debating electricity and energy in Parliament's Chamber is made possible by the lights being lit and that people have been able to come here to work from all over the country. That we can broadcast the debate on screens to the entire Swedish people, that we can save it on servers so that it is available and so that it becomes transparent that democracy works is made possible by electricity and energy. The fact that we use a lot of electricity is not a bad thing. That means we have a lot of lights on to do our homework. This means that we may have many, although I do not always believe it, who are watching the Parliament's live broadcasts from here in the Chamber. This means that we have many people who go to work and produce things that create Sweden's prosperity. Using electricity is a good thing. In any case, when we use a lot of electricity, there are often many good things going on. Electricity and energy are the foundations of the whole community. That is why, in fact, it is also one of the more important parts of the core of welfare. That is why the Liberals are so determined that a shortage of electricity and energy must never constitute an obstacle to people's freedom. No man must be free because he does not have access to electricity and energy. This is true in Sweden, and it applies all over the world. It is one of the initial values that we have had in the negotiations with the other January parties on the budget in this area. The second input value, which is actually just as important, is that the emissions that we humans emit into different parts of the world when we produce and use energy must be eliminated. They have to go. In the next step, perhaps even in parallel, we need to reduce emissions, that is, instead of releasing carbon dioxide, we need to capture it. We must also do that because we need a lot of electricity and energy, and humanity and our civilisation, our future, depend on our succeeding in curbing, stopping, preventing and rolling back climate change. I don't want to live on a planet where we can't stop climate change. In fact, it may even be difficult to survive on such a planet and in such a world. But I certainly do not want to live on a planet and in a world where we do not use a lot of electricity and energy and where we do not make sure that it is the same in more parts of the world. I want the lights on. I want people to be able to study, to be able to go to work and to have our democracy work. It is at the point of balance between these values that energy policy needs to exist. Madam President, I would like We are right now at a point in history where we humans have built up, and we in Sweden have built up an immense wealth. We have well-trained engineers who can count on this with energy and new technologies. We have people who are willing to invest large sums of money in the green transition. We have people going to work in different production lines to produce what it takes to reset. But at this point in history, we need to add some weight. We need to work hard. We need to do more. The economy must grow in order to gain power in the green transition. We simply need to invest in our future by changing. There are several parts of what we are debating here today that we Liberals are proud that we have been rewritten into the budget. They have that very tone, they are forward-looking and they are about how humanity and our civilisation can continue to evolve because we have access to clean energy. One such thing is electric flights. That is something that is clear in this part of the budget. Not long ago it was thought to be science fiction, but now it will become a reality. It will enable continued mobility so that people can travel and meet, which is something that I think many long for like this in coronatimes. We can do this in a climate-smart way if we make sure that the electricity the flights charge is clean. There are big investments on charging poles and on electrifying the heavy transports so that we can not only drive the passenger car on electricity but also the heavy transports. It takes even more, once again, because we are a small country in the north that not only needs to heat our houses but also needs to make exports and imports work. Madam President, I would like There is also a great deal about investments in CCS, i.e. precisely the capture of carbon dioxide. All the energy use, all the fuel use and all the use of what enables our civilization may not be possible to get rid of directly. But then we can at least try to compensate by capturing carbon dioxide at the other end. Madam President, I would like Our energy policy in Sweden has some overall and overarching objectives, and they are precisely security of supply, socio-economic efficiency and ecological sustainability. These are objectives that we agree on, in Sweden and the EU, and that they are above other objectives of climate policy. There is also a lot of focus in this budget. In fact, we need to put aside quite a lot of our ideological blind spots in the debate on energy and stop looking so much at just what kind of energy we think is best and instead focus on security of supply, socio-economic efficiency and ecological sustainability. That is why it is a good thing that, for example, the section of the budget dealing with research focuses on changing, fossil freedom and technology neutrality. It therefore no longer tilts in any direction but is technologically neutral and focuses on the important objectives. Madam President, I would like It is no secret that Sweden to and from has problems with the supply of electricity. I believe that in the future, and even here and now, we will need a mix of energies. We're going to need nuclear power. We're gonna need hydropower. We're going to need wind spinners, that is, wind power. We will need all the renewable energy production we can get. But it is also no secret that every type of energy contributes something but also has disadvantages in the system. If you want as good a mix as possible, all parts are needed to reset. In order for the economy to grow and we will be able to reset and forcefully ensure that we humans can live on earth in the future, and even with high prosperity, we need to have all the tools in the toolbox. That is why all types of energy must be included, and that is why we need to be technology neutral. I support the proposal in the report.
i-e8e40301e832376e-1357	Madam President, I would like At the turn of the year, another nuclear reactor will be shut down. This means that Sweden will soon have closed half of its original reactors. Much of this has been done under a red-green government. That's good. In practice, renewables have won. The renewable future is already here. If you look at what it looks like globally, you see that the trend is very clear: Fossils are replaced with renewables. This year 90 per cent of all new electricity generation has been renewable. This figure is predicted by the International Energy Agency to increase to 95% in the coming years until 2025. At the same time, coal is decreasing. Other fossil energy sources are also decreasing, but above all coal does. This is particularly evident in the European Union. There are two reasons for that. One is that renewables now come in and displace coal, and the other is the price increase that the Green Party has contributed to has come about in the EU's emissions trading scheme. It has become four five times more expensive to release 1 tonne of CO2 now than a few years ago thanks to a proposal that the Green Party pushed through in the EU. We see the same trend in Sweden but with a focus on the fact that it is nuclear power that is being replaced by renewables. Ringhals 1 closes at the turn of the year. What is so very good is that nuclear power is replaced by renewable energy production by far. The increase in new construction of wind power is enormous. It's historic. One third of Sweden's electricity generation will come from wind in 2023. This means that Sweden now has a very large electricity surplus. Last year we exported electricity equivalent to four Ringhal reactors. That surplus is predicted to increase further to bring new wind into the system. And I'll be very clear: we haven't even started with the sea breeze. Only sea wind could account for up to one third, or perhaps even more, of Swedish electricity production in a few years' time. At the same time, we see that solar energy is rising sharply from low levels. It has increased 400 percent in recent years. We are moving towards 100% renewable electricity production. The target is fixed. But, as I said, there are parties that nostalgically dream back to a vision of new nuclear power. I brought it up in a line shift, but I thought I'd go through it a little more thoroughly. Today, nuclear power is the only source of power that is becoming more expensive, quite a lot more expensive. Bloomberg produces figures every year on the costs of different power types. I thought I'd go over the numbers and try to do it pedagogic. These are different projects and different costs. But I have calculated the approximate median for each country that is comparable to Sweden. In the United States, building a new wind turbine costs about 39 øre per kilowatt hour. It costs 254 øre per kilowatt hour to build a new nuclear power plant – 39 against 254. In France it costs about 55 øre per kilowatt hour to build a new wind turbine. It costs 300 øre per kilowatt hour to build a new nuclear power plant. In the UK it costs 46 øre per kilowatt hour to build a new wind turbine. It costs 200 øre per kilowatt hour to build a new nuclear power plant. In the case of Finland, there are no data on the cost of building a new wind turbine, but there are 213 öre per kilowatt hour to build a new nuclear power plant. In Sweden we are not building new nuclear power plants. But it costs about 30 øre per kilowatt hour to build a new wind turbine. So there are huge differences in cost. It is almost impossible to grasp how much difference there is in the cost of building a new wind turbine compared to a new nuclear power plant. So, depending on the project, it can be said that building a new nuclear power plant is up to eleven times more expensive. It's not something we come from. Whether you love nuclear energy as a technology, it's not something you can turn a blind eye to. In the end, someone's going to stand for the party. The question is, who? Is it taxpayers through subsidies? Is it the electricity consumers? It is unclear from the parties wrangling for nuclear power. Madam President, I would like Very well! The transition we are in the middle of naturally comes with challenges. No one's questioned that. If you are going to make big changes, it is obvious that challenges arise along the way. What are those challenges, and what are we going to do about them? I've talked a lot about it in this speaker's chair before. The important thing now is to focus on the system. How should the system be connected when we get more variable power generation, more wind and sun and less nuclear power? Firstly, huge energy efficiency improvements are needed to meet new needs. Electricity consumption in Sweden has been more or less still in the last 20 to 30 years. It has even decreased slightly in comparison with the early 2000s. At the same time, however, we know that transport will be electrified and that the industry will be electrified. Hybrid will mean a great need for electricity. LKAB recently went out and said that it should produce carbon dioxide-free iron sponge. It will also require a lot of electricity. Of course we will need more production. Above all, however, some existing needs can be made more efficient. We need a quota obligation here. We need a large instrument that can reduce the need for electricity cost-effectively. We also have, positively enough, major investments in the budget for energy efficiency. Secondly, more flexibility is needed in the market. With more renewable energy, new technologies, new systems and demand response are needed, simply adapting demand. We need to review electricity taxes and network charges so that they are dynamic, in order to control their use when it is the smartest. We need local markets for flexibility. We know that much of the challenges are local bottlenecks in the networks. We need hydrogen and batteries, the kind of technology that can carry on the energy when the sun does not shine and the wind does not blow. The government has recently commissioned Svenska Kraftnät to look at support services within the system. It can be anything from batteries to nerdy stuff like synthetic swing mass or whatever it might be. The electricity crisis in the summer was largely due to the fact that nuclear power did not deliver at all, combined with the fact that the networks could not be used. It could have been solved quite easily if in southern Sweden, for example, you had voltage stabilizers. This is one of the things that Swedish power grids will now look at. Thirdly, investment in the networks is needed. These are investments in new transmission capacity in existing networks and such things as voltage stabilisers. There is also a need for regulatory simplification, and authorities need to speed up their processes in order for us to quickly expand new capacities. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
