i-313aa4e9fff1a227-8	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me when I intend to ensure that the new basic flight training school aircraft is acquired. According to the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment, the detected failure of SK 60 is now serious. This puts aviation safety at risk, which has led the Swedish Armed Forces to ban the aircraft type. It is also the responsibility of the Swedish Armed Forces to take measures via contracted industry in order for the current flight ban to be lifted, which is currently also ongoing. The Swedish Armed Forces' current assessment is that the flight stop will lead to six to eight weeks delay and that flight time production with SK 60 could resume in mid-January. At the same time, I share Mikael Oscarsson's view that SK 60 is approaching its operational lifetime and that a replacement needs to be acquired. This view also has the Swedish Armed Forces and the Defence Committee. The latter points out in its report Värnkraft that a procurement decision should be made in 2020. The Government has instructed the Swedish Armed Forces in its regulation letter for the financial year 2020 to provide the basis for any decisions that it deems necessary before the next defence policy orientation decision.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. The Air Force is of the utmost importance to Sweden. We have a powerful air force with JAS 39 Gripen. But a challenge we have, Madam President, is that of pilots. We know that this situation is getting tougher and tougher. From now on throughout the 20's we know that there are many retirements, and this is a major challenge. We also have a plane, SK 60, which is used in flight training. It's a nice aircraft, but it's very old – it's been running since 1967. The background to my interpellation is that we now have a situation where there are more and more problems with keeping this aircraft running. Mats Helgesson, Air Force Commander who has just quit, said just recently that we have maintenance problems that are only getting worse and worse. Except with this bolt, there have been problems with the radio and other things that have happened. Problems with corrosion have existed. One question I would like to ask here is when the Minister of Defence intends to place an order. The Air Force has said that it would in principle have to place an order now, the first quarter of this year, in order to get the new propeller aircraft by 2022. Then it may take a year before you can get started with the education. The first question, then, is what the plan looks like in order for there to be a smooth transition that makes neither flight training nor the units in any way adversely affected. As far as the number of pilots is concerned, we know that it has been difficult for six seven years to fill the seats. There are a total of twelve training places per year, eight of which are for combat pilots. The Swedish Armed Forces have said that they would actually like to increase this number from eight to fourteen. That is the second question: what does the Minister of Defence think about increasing the training rate for pilots? There is also the possibility of using services available abroad. In Italy, for example, I know that there is a possibility of getting help with basic education. These are the questions I would like answers to.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-21	Madam President, I would like If I have understood correctly, this interpellation is about how we can deal with the situation with the school flight system. The Swedish Armed Forces have proposed to replace SK 60 with two different flight systems – a modern turboprop aircraft in order to carry out basic flight training for all flight drivers and basic tactical training of flight drivers for transport and special flights as well as an advanced flight system for tactical and advanced flight training. It is in plain language about JAS 39 D that you would have as an advanced flight system. This has also been discussed in the framework of the Defence Committee. The information I have is that the Swedish Armed Forces announced orally that the agency intends to return with the question of this before budget 2020/ 21 and that during the first quarter of 2020, i.e. this year, it will request that it be allowed to enter into an agreement in order to replace SK 60. It is therefore not the government that signs contracts with industry, but the authority that is responsible for negotiating, signing and concluding contracts. It is quite right that the SK 60 system needs to be replaced, as I also said in my introduction. The problems of wear and tear will increase. That is why work has been going on for a long time trying to clarify how this is to be replaced. In the past, there have been other ideas on how to do this, but based on, among other things, cost and reasonableness reasons, this solution has landed. I'm basically waiting for the Swedish Armed Forces to talk about this. Then I guess the idea is that the issue can be dealt with. As far as pilot training is concerned, I am not going to go in here and reason and speculate on Italy or other alternatives or whether we are going to go up from 12 to 14. These are things that the Armed Forces will have to come back to. However, there is now an idea of how this replacement SK 60 could be handled.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. In the case of SK 60, there have been problems with the bolt over the past year, with the radio and with other things. This has led to a six-month delay in the flight training that is currently under way. This is of course a concern, not least in view of the fact that we already have a shortage and need to fill up with pilots, given that so many people end in 2020, ‐ 21, ‐ 22, ‐ 23, ‐ 24 and beyond. That brings me to another question. Although this plane is already 52 years old, it is said that it should be kept running until 2025 in order to pass the tactical education, GTU. What's the government thinking? What's the plan? Are resources set aside to keep the aircraft running for five more years, given that it is already in such a difficult situation and that according to the Air Force Commander, new ones are constantly being encountered? I would like to hear an answer to that question. The second part concerns the purchase of this propeller aircraft. Does the answer mean that the Swedish Armed Forces have the green light from the government to sign this agreement themselves during the first quarter, which would mean that there were no delays but that you could get the aircraft in two years' time? Is that how I'm supposed to interpret the government's response? Today there are 12 pilots in total, but 4 of them are used for the transport flight. 8 are JAS and fighter pilots. So it is these 8 that there is a desire to increase to 14 in order to cope with the increasing shortage of pilots. That is the question and the problem I wonder about, and I am sure that the Government has also given it a lot of thought. This is a great challenge that has been known for a long time. Large pension departures and other departures mean that to be on the safe side we would need to increase the production of combat pilots.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-30	Madam President, I would like On November 13, a ban was imposed, and the SK 60 system is back in operation. Then the number of aircraft used will be gradually increased. From November 13, until now, a two - month period is not six months. I am not giving the green light in advance, before any decisions have been taken. I'm just saying there's a plan for how this could possibly be handled. Anticipating decisions before they have been taken is likely to lead to the KU, and a possible response right here could probably give rise to some political discussions. There's a plan. I'm waiting to receive, according to the information I have, a request during the first quarter. The focus is to try to resolve the issue in the 2021 budget. That's the plan we'll have to try to work from outside. I am well aware that these kinds of problems need to be resolved. It's not news to me. Work on this has been going on for a long time. To then stand here in Parliament's pulpit and conduct detailed discussions on the number of people to be trained in different parts of the Swedish Armed Forces or speculate on what is reasonable and not reasonable is perhaps not a correct way to deal with it. As far as such details are concerned, I will be able to come back to you when you have prepared such questions. But of course we have a need for pilots in the future. It is also clear that it is possible to look at all the possibilities to cope with recruitment and staffing in the long term. There is no political contradiction there. On the other hand, the fact that we are now locking ourselves in for a concrete message – and now it is going to be like this – is to get ahead of ourselves. I think I have actually clarified and answered the basic questions in the way that is possible today: I expect a request from the Swedish Armed Forces during the first quarter and that they do this with a focus on the budget for 2021. In that case, we have before us the formal decision-making process. I have also made it clear that I see it as a realistic solution to find a combination with the turboprop solution, BTA plus, and also to use JAS 39 D. When the urgent question about SK 60 is solved, I see that I have actually covered the whole field in Oscarsson's question line.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-37	Madam President, I would like The number of pilots is a major challenge. According to my information, the last stop is to be added to the second stop that has been. That is why, taken together, it has now become a six-month delay. The Government is happy to check it on the basis of its possibilities, but there are problems with this old aircraft. I would also like to hear something about this that it should be running until 2025. What's the plan? Will funds be allocated to basic tactical training so that the plane can function for another five years, even though it is already 52 years old? With regard to the number of pilots and combat pilots, it is nevertheless a well-known challenge that we have discussed several times in different contexts. Therefore, I just wanted to remind you that this is something that needs to be resolved, and we need to look at how we can increase production so that there will be no Achilles heel in the future that we have good aircraft but lack of pilots. That's why I wanted to bring that part forward. My hope now is that the Swedish Armed Forces and in particular the air force can have an opportunity to order this in time so that there will be no delay in the introduction of the new system.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-42	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that this system should be replaced. No one stands for any news on this point. This has been discussed for a long time. It was up to proper discussion, and a strategy was also put forward for it, in the Defence Committee. The Swedish Armed Forces have been working on this issue for a long time. Other options have also been tested during the journey, which have been significantly more expensive and which have also contained financial solutions that have not been satisfactory and realistic. Now I think we have landed on a line where it should be feasible. Therefore, I am now waiting for the final parts with a request from the Swedish Armed Forces, and then we will have to return to the budget work for 2021. Then it is surely satisfying that the last flight stop for SK 60 has been resolved in two months. If this system is to remain in the air force for a period of time, with the risk that large maintenance parts and other things may be needed to keep it going, it goes without saying that funds must be set aside in order to be able to do so. That's how it works. I cannot see that there would be any other way with this system than in other contexts. Finally, on the pilot issue, it is an issue that does not contain much of the news either. This is an issue that the Swedish Armed Forces are looking at and working on. It is a common interest to manage the pilot supply in the future.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-46	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me three questions: whether I intend to work towards continuing the purchase of emission credits in order to reach the Swedish climate targets to end, whether I intend to work internationally to ensure that the developed countries actually reduce their emissions instead of relying on cheap and uncertain credit purchases and whether I intend to act against the Swedish Energy Agency's buying-in of emission credits with dubious social and climate benefits. The government's position is that Sweden should, as far as possible, reach the national climate target by 2020 with measures within the country. The Alliance government considered that one third of the target should be covered by international credits. The current government has cancelled all international credits that have been delivered to Sweden, which means that they have not been used to achieve the Swedish climate goals one but have been extra climate benefits. Sweden has adopted a target of reaching net zero emissions by 2045. It is very likely that there will be some remaining emissions. The k glued policy framework therefore allows the use of complementary measures to a limited extent to allow net zero emissions. It will present its report later in January and will propose the measures to be taken. I don't want to pre-empt the investigation. Sweden has previously for many years invested in projects under the Clean Development Mechanism, Clean Development Mechanism, CDM, which was created under the Kyoto Protocol. Sweden has not entered into any new such agreements since 2016 but is working instead of developing new forms of international cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. In general, the main objective of the CDM under the Kyoto Protocol was to create flexibility around where industrialised countries wanted to implement emission reductions in order to achieve their objectives in a cost-effective way, while contributing to sustainable development in developing countries. The Paris Agreement retains the flexibility but has an explicit call for action to contribute to an increased level of ambition. It is positive if countries want to work together to increase the rate of emission reductions and if it can help us to meet the Paris agreement's 1.5°C target. Of course, it is crucial that international cooperation under the Paris Agreement leads to real emission reductions with high environmental integrity. It requires a robust and transparent framework. Sweden's line at the UN climate conference COP 25 in Madrid was also to wait with an agreement rather than accept inadequate rules. The government will continue to work towards a strict regulatory framework for Article 6. With regard to international efforts to reduce emissions, I share Jens Holm's view that much more needs to be done to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This is why the government is also a driving force for increased ambition globally. Sweden, the EU and other rich countries are going to take the lead, and we are going to push other countries that have signed the Paris Agreement. In this context, I note that Sweden has been a strong driver when the EU recently agreed on the target of achieving net zero emissions by 2050. We are also the Member State that runs the most ambitious line of tightening up the EU's 2030 targets, which will be reviewed this year in order to increase the EU's commitment under the Paris Agreement.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-52	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation, which concerns Swedish buy-in of dubious emission credits in developing countries. I think this is an important issue because Sweden has at least been one of the world's largest purchasers of emission credits in the past. We in the Left Party have long criticised this system because it is based on developing countries helping developed countries, rich countries, to reduce their emissions. The projects are designed and designed in the industrialized world – in North America, the UK and Sweden – and quite often these emission reduction projects, CDM projects, are not part of the local countries' development strategy. Sometimes it gets so crazy that our emission credits run counter to other important social or environmental policy objectives of a poor country. In my interpellation I mention a number of examples that Dagens Nyheter has revealed in extensive reviews in a series of articles. These are, for example, projects in Uganda in which the Swedish Energy Agency has entered. It has been about tree planting in the form of plantation. The only problem was that there were already people living in the area. There were 6,000 small farmers operating in the area, and they were forced to move from there for Swedish trees to be planted there. Another example is the Swedish Energy Agency's contribution of over SEK 200 million for the purchase of energy-efficient stoves that have not delivered at all the climate benefits and better air that they were intended to lead to. This is criticised by scientists and debaters. There is talk of climate colonialism. From the German Öko Institute and the Swedish Environment Institute, it has been said that 85% of the projects have a low probability of delivering emission reductions at all, and only 2% of the projects are clearly additional, which is unique and would not have happened without this money. Only 2% therefore contributes to additionality. It's quite remarkable. I think that and the Environment and Climate Minister's response to me is good to the extent that the Swedish line is that we should do our emission reductions as much as possible at home, but I do not get an answer to my question about the specific projects that the Swedish Energy Agency has entered into. What does the Minister intend to do about them? Does the Minister intend, for example, to carry out a review of the Swedish Energy Agency's takeover of dubious emission credits in other countries? Even Vattenfall, our largest state-owned company, has similar emission credits that are also very doubtful. Does the Minister intend to act against them as well? I'd like to know.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for raising a very important issue in the Swedish Parliament and in the world! First of all, it is extremely important that everything we do from now on is about real emission reductions. I am very pleased that the Paris Agreement has reversed the logic of the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol was really about rich countries not having to make emission reductions themselves but instead being able to buy much cheaper so-called emission credits in other countries. It is important to note that there are doubts as to whether all these so-called CDM projects have really led to proper emission reductions. We are very careful that the implementation of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement will be good. The basic idea is that we ourselves in each country should reduce our emissions. The rich countries cannot buy indulgences, but Article 6 lays down the framework for international cooperation that we can have with other countries to speed up emissions reduction. This is important, and Sweden is actively working to ensure that Article 6 is rigorously implemented. We should know that there will be additional emission reductions, that is, things that would not happen otherwise. Jens Holm addresses the forest project in Uganda, Kachung. It was a project that the Swedish Energy Agency was involved in 2011. In 2015, irregularities were discovered in relation to that project. It is the only forest project in which the Swedish Energy Agency has been involved. This is now being continuously followed up by an action plan, with its own site visits and independent audits to ensure that the conditions that have now been met in the specific project are complied with. Forest projects are not being continued, because there are many questions about it. Is that food supply? Is it in some cases a question of human expulsion? Permanence is also important when growing forests – that it is not cut down or burned down at a later stage – so that we really know that it is emission reductions. When it comes to stoves, I really want to emphasise that the project described in Dagens Nyheter is not a stove project that the Swedish Energy Agency has entered. Fourteen stove projects have been launched in Africa. They have not – except for a project – been about handing out stoves for free. This has been followed up. It is simply not the same project as described in Dagens Nyheter. And it is important that there are functioning systems for maintenance and repair if this type of stove project is to work. Then there is the figure of 2% and clear additionality. That study is of course very important, but it has methods that are very comprehensive. It looks at sectors rather than at individual projects. The message I get from our authority is that you need to look at each project separately to determine whether it really is an additionality. We have clear instructions for our authorities to live up to the Paris Agreement. We will live up to Agenda 2030 and the policy of global development. We have very clear statements that everything that Sweden is going to do will contribute to sustainable development. This also applies to so-called climate compensation for individual authorities.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for those answers! I would like to begin by saying that the negotiations on Article 6 of the Paris Agreement are extremely important. I fully support the fact that we really should have a very strict and clear article here. Almost regardless of how it is formulated, we will continue to have climate compensation projects and projects for the purchase of emission credits. So it will be almost no matter how benevolent the wording we have in an international treaty. It's, frankly, what's happening on the ground that really makes a difference. The basic problem is that these are projects designed in the Western world to be carried out in developing countries on the other side of the world. They are not part of local developing countries' national development strategies – and they are then evaluated by agencies most often from the Western world. I find it difficult to see that Article 6 will really resolve this problem, especially when the climate compensation programme of international aviation, Corsia, is rolled out on a full scale from next year. We are talking about reducing emissions by 164 million tonnes over the next 14 years. So there will be a huge number of new projects of a very dubious nature in developing countries. In what way will the Swedish Government ensure that all new climate projects under Corsia will have a high level of environmental and climate integrity? Corsia is something that the Swedish Government supports. We in the Left Party said we don't believe in this. We've said no to that. Then it applies to the Swedish Energy Agency's project. As far as tree plantations are concerned, it is true that the Swedish Energy Agency has carried out its own review. It was also mentioned in one of Dagens Nyheter's articles. In fact, they tried to cover up criticisms that came up in that review. I do not know if the Minister drew attention to this, but it shows that our authority is having a very difficult time dealing with this problem – I have to say that.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-72	Of course, something that touches on this is the 6,000 farmers who were forced out of the area. How does the Energy Authority deal with the individuals? Is any kind of compensation and redress given to these people? Have they made new plots of land use? What is Sweden doing in this regard? What's the minister doing? I'd like to know. I find it interesting to have a clarification about the stove projects in the various African countries. The Minister believes that the criticism of these stove projects that has emerged in Dagens Nyheter does not concern the Swedish Energy Agency's stove project. Then I would just like to ask: does the Minister think that the stove projects in which the Energy Agency has entered have worked well and have been clearly additional from a climate perspective?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the follow-up questions! As far as Article 6 of the Paris Agreement is concerned, it is a matter of international cooperation. That's basically good. Nothing says it should be between developed and developing countries. In practice, the Paris Agreement should have abolished a division of the world into two. Under the Kyoto Protocol, there were annex 1 countries and annex 2 countries. But there is nothing to prevent this from happening between developed countries as well. We must, of course, pay great attention to the fact that, especially when there is cooperation with the least developed countries, there is an institutional lack of capacity. There may also be other things in the cards, such as corruption and the like. You have to pay attention to this so that you know what you're doing. What we are now focusing on is that there should be strict rules so that we do not have to see double accounting and so that it is really additional projects. But it is also a question of human rights being included in Article 6. Unfortunately, I have to say that there are countries opposed to human rights being mentioned in relation to Article 6. There we are today in the world, and that is extremely regrettable. When it comes to Corsia, we see that it is a first step in that aviation should also take some form of climate responsibility and start working on it. You have to get rid of the emissions. We're a long way from where we need to be. We know what the research says. All emissions must go to the middle of this century if we are not to have a climate crisis. It may also be that we get a very large use of negative emissions through CCS. Here we have been careful that Corsia should not replace the inclusion of aviation in the EU ETS. We saw yesterday that the European Parliament voted in favour of the Commission's Green Deal, which proposed, among other things, the inclusion of maritime emissions in the ETS. There are many things that need to be screwed up about these issues. We'll have to take it step by step. Our position is always that human rights and additionality are extremely important and that it should be about permanence in forest projects, for example. We have proposed in Corsia that in forestry projects there should be at least 100 years of permanence, so that they do not fall off within 20 years or the like. Then it won't have a climate effect. The Ministry has a continuous dialogue with the Swedish Energy Agency, and we have of course, based on the newspaper articles that have been, had further dialogue. We have a clear picture that we are following the guidelines that exist. And I want to repeat that since 2016 Sweden has not been part of any new CDM projects. But those we have already entered are running until 2022, and we are not dismantling them, because it would be very irresponsible to do so. The Spi projects are of a completely different nature. It is not stoves that are distributed free of charge, except in one of the projects. It has been followed up and found that there are functioning systems for maintenance and repair. This is also a good receipt of what the Nobel Prize laureates last year, in terms of aid, point out: that for successful aid it can be about buying and being involved in something. These particular stove projects have no reason to believe that they are not working.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-83	Madam President, I would like Even if we wish to do so, it is not the case that the Paris Agreement eliminates the gaps that exist in the world. There is a rich world and a poor world, and so there is quite a lot in between too. Of course, international cooperation in the field of climate change is great, but what worries me is that emission credits will continue to exist. With Corsia, we will have an incredible amount of new emission credits. When there is a lot of allowances at the same time, we know that we want to roll them out quickly, and then the risk is obvious that there will be poor quality in them. I have a specific question. Is it the case that Corsia will also be covered by Article 6 of the Paris Agreement? I would also like an answer if the Minister considers Corsia to be an effective way of reducing aviation emissions. As regards the Swedish Energy Agency's climate project, the government has not allowed any new emission credits after 2016. That's good. But the government is responsible for what is going on here and now, and I think that one should react strongly if one sees major errors. I do not think that dialogue with the Energy Agency is perhaps the most powerful tool. Instead, the government could urge the Energy Agency to carry out its own review of all emission reduction projects in developing countries. This also applies to Vattenfall, which has historically been a huge purchaser of projects in developing countries. My last question concerned the 6 000 farmers who have been displaced from their land. What's the minister doing about it? Have they received compensation?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-89	Madam President, I would like It is true that Sweden supports what is going on within ICAO to ensure that aviation also has a climate target and to reduce emissions and be in line with the Paris Agreement's 1.5°C target. Nor do we believe that Corsia is sufficient as an instrument, so we need to continue to ensure that aviation is part of the EU's emissions trading system. We are also pushing for the possibility of taxing aviation fuel internationally. We are pushing for biofuels to be incorporated and, of course, we also want to ensure that we reduce unnecessary flying. The main objective is that aviation must also meet the Paris Agreement's 1.5 degree objective, and step by step we must get there. Will the CO2 credits within Corsia be covered by Article 6? I have to say no to this. It's not the same deal at all, so it doesn't. However, we are pursuing the same principles with regard to Corsia. Our entry point is that you should not have credits, but that you should make sure to reduce your own emissions as well. I cannot answer what compensation the 6 000 farmers have received. I know that there is follow-up with the Ugandan state and the project driver, called Green Resources. The situation has been exposed and conditions improved for the local population, including in the form of better access to food and water. There is also dialogue with the local population.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-93	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer has asked me three questions in view of the fact that the government has reserved itself to test the admissibility of a planned operation at Preemraf in Lysekil. She has asked me how I justify the government taking over the process from our courts at this stage of the process, whether I can guarantee that in future the government will not take over an admissibility test when the judgment has been handed down in the first instance, how I view Swedish export policy as part of climate policy and what measures are taken to increase Swedish exports. The government's examination of the admissibility of activities is regulated in Chapter 17. the environmental code. The starting point is that permits for environmentally hazardous activities are examined by the Land and Environment Courts or Environmental Assessment Delegations. However, the Government has an opportunity to reserve the admissibility of certain matters under the Environmental Code. This applies, inter alia, to whether the activities can be assumed to have a significant extent in countering the objective of the environmental code, which is to promote sustainable development. The government's review of admissibility is carried out – as in the court and environmental review delegation – according to the rules of the environmental code and applicable to EU law. The government's decision to reserve the admissibility of an activity is generally made after notification by an authority or municipality. Regarding Preemraff Lysekil, the Government decided to reserve the examination of admissibility following notification from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is an advantage if this notification comes at an early stage, but there is no longer a deadline for when it can happen. In the case of Preemraff Lysekil, this notification was received after the appeal was lodged with the Land and Environment Court of Appeal. I cannot speculate on the future behaviour of the government, because a factual assessment must be made in each individual case. However, I would like to point out that it is beneficial if the government is informed at an early stage of a review process. The fact that the government has reserved the admissibility test in the case mentioned by Louise Meijer is due to the fact that the planned activities at Preemraff Lysekil can be assumed to have a major impact on the ability to reach the climate targets. The Government recently submitted the first climate action plan to the Riksdag. The overall approach of the Action Plan is to step up efforts to integrate climate policy into all relevant policy areas. This also applies to export policy. Sweden's prosperity is built on the fact that innovative export companies have renewed their production and their products as markets have changed. With ambitious climate action, we are stimulating the innovation needed for us to have strong export companies in the future as well. The fact that Swedish companies are at the forefront through the development, commercialisation and export of climate-smart products and services can also mean that emissions are reduced both in Sweden and globally in the markets to which these companies export. Swedish companies show in this way what the road to a fossil-free welfare society looks like. To strengthen Swedish exports, the government, together with the Liberals and the Center Party, has launched a developed export and investment strategy to create jobs and growth throughout the country. Sweden's new export and investment strategy will contribute to the global goals for sustainable development in Agenda 2030 and to the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement. Finally, I would like to respond to Louise Meijer's observation that Sweden accounts for only 1 per mil of global emissions and that the climate issue is global. The Government has a responsibility to conduct a policy to achieve the environmental and climate objectives set by the Swedish Parliament. According to the climate target, net greenhouse gas emissions shall be zero by 2045. The overall objective of environmental policy is to give over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved without causing increased environmental and health problems beyond Sweden's borders. Sweden's policy is important far beyond its borders. Keeping you ahead of the climate issue is something that also makes other countries follow suit and dare to take steps forward.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Poland, Hungary and Turkey – in recent years the independence of the courts in several countries has been undermined by authoritarian political decisions and interventions. Criticism from the outside world, not least from Sweden, has been harsh and unambiguous for good reason. Unfortunately, the Swedish Government does not show the same commitment to strengthening the rule of law here at home. Strengthening the independence of courts is a long way off. The necessary additional resources are not available. And the latest: the government obviously does not shy away from stepping in and politically reviewing court decisions. This summer, the Government decided to take over the judicial review of the extension of the refinery of the fuel company Preem in Lysekil from the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal. This means that it will be the government that decides whether or not the company can expand – this after the Land and Environment Court at Vänersborg District Court has first approved Preem's plans. That decision was then appealed to the Land and Environment Court of Appeal, which raised the case. But only then did the government step onto the track and want to take over the trial. Against this procedure, many legal experts have been very critical. One can say that the Green Party loses at first instance, is dissatisfied with this and then takes over the test. We also know that the Government in Ekot's Saturday interview has said that it is absolutely not sustainable to invest in this type of activity. It seems to me that the government has already passed judgment on the matter before the trial has been carried out. What if a RAC had said that all assault cases should lead to prison, but this particular abuse should be examined individually? There had been a outcry, and the trial had had to be reversed. It also comes as a surprise that the Climate Act can be used to take over processes at a late stage. When the Climate Act was presented, the Law Council said that it was vague and had no sharp legal consequences. Now we know that the Environmental Party has introduced a new institution in Sweden through the Climate Act, namely that in the middle of a court proceedings, the government can review the court's decision on permission to review the operation based on carbon dioxide emissions. I think that a government should be honest and say that when introducing a new law, the motivation is that the government should be able to test carbon-intensive activities and whether they should be located in Sweden or not. It would have been an honest way of saying that this is what the government wants to do and that is what should be tested. Then the immediate consequence for entrepreneurs, I imagine, will be to wonder who is next. Is that my business? Now that I'm going to apply for a new permit that takes many years, is complicated and costs a lot to produce, it's not only the long time I'm going to worry about, but it's also that the government will take over my permit process to test it against something that my application has not been about. It's not enough that I can get a good decision at first instance – that's not enough, and it doesn't stop there – but the government can step in and say that the decision doesn't apply and that the issue should be examined against something other than what the application is about. I wonder how the government really sees this. I mean as moderate that the end here does not justify the means. When you fight monsters, you have to be careful that you don't become the monster yourself. How does the Government view this?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-115	Madam President, I would like I welcome the question so that we can explain to the Conservatives how the process is done. First of all, it is absolutely not uncommon for the government to test the admissibility of large operations. For example, road projects such as E4 Bypass Stockholm, Ostlänken, the final repository of nuclear fuel in Östhammar and a new fairway to Södertälje. All of these are on the government table. Then there were a number of bodies, persons and organisations that informed the government of the planned extension of Preemraff in Lysekil. It is an important investment in terms of impact on the environment and our ability to meet the climate targets decided by the Riksdag. This would increase emissions for Sweden by 3%, or 3.4 million tonnes. Therefore, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency informed the government. This was done after the Climate Act had entered into force. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency – our authority – referred to the Climate Act. So it is not the case that the Green Party has lost in any instance or has interfered in a legal process, but this is a completely ordinary process. No, it is not common because it is the first time an authority refers to the Climate Act, but that the government receives this type of case is not unusual. It is in itself desirable that such cases should be raised as early as possible in a judicial process. According to the Environmental Code, the Government must immediately give notice to the Court of Justice in cases where the Government reserves its discretion. This means that once the Government has taken a reservation decision, that decision shall be sent immediately to the courts so that they can adjust their handling of the matter and process it properly. In the past, the Land and Environment Court of Appeal has decided to refer an appeal to the Government despite the judgment of the Land and Environment Court in the case. This is, of course, an important issue for how the government will manage to comply with the Climate Act, which is decided by the Riksdag. There we have said that each government has a responsibility for us to be able to achieve net zero emissions by 2045. What the government is supposed to do, of course, is not to decide on a case-by-case basis for new activities, but we have launched an investigation to review all relevant legislation to make it clear how to assess these cases. The environmental code is absolutely central to the issue, and an investigation should look at it. The directives for the investigation are ready, but an investigator has not yet been appointed. I absolutely agree that clarity is important. Here we want to clarify further, and according to the Environmental Code, the government has the right to raise a matter of this magnitude.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-123	Madam President, I would like The government said she could explain to me as a climate policy spokesperson how the process works. As a lawyer, I then react strongly to the Council of State's view that the word averting the law would mean that the government can take as much time as possible to think about when, where and how to get into the process. It is once you have made up your mind that the immediate criterion comes in. As soon as you have made up your mind, you should immediately inform them that you have made up your mind. But there will be a completely confused interpretation of the concept immediately. Immediately, the government announces immediately that it will take over a trial as soon as a case starts. When an application is submitted to an informant, the government should, at that stage, tell that the sub-court does not need to examine the application because the government will do so. It is not the idea that, from a political position, you should review an existing ruling, which is what you are doing now. The Government explained in what other types of situations the government has made a trial. That is quite right, of course. The remarkable thing about this case is that this has never happened before. It has never happened before that a government after a verdict has fallen goes into the process and takes over the process. Not only does it take over the process – it also speaks about the motives for taking over by expressing in an interview that such a type of activity is not desirable. In the answer from the Government and the Government Office, I also note that it is said that there is no more limit to when the government can go in and take over such a decision, but it can be decided on a case-by-case basis. This means that companies that want to submit permit applications to Swedish courts must worry not only about the permit application as such, but also about the lottery regarding whether the government in their case will take over the process and test the emissions. The government also said that the government was informed and that it was only when the government initiated a period of thought on whether or not to take over the process. Then I had to ask: Was it that the government did not know that this application was on the table and that only when you were informed did you go in and think about whether or not you should try it yourself? It seems very strange that one was not aware of the great expansion that is now actually going to happen. Against this background, my question to the Government is: Does this mean that businesses and companies in Sweden can now expect two proceedings from the Swedish Government and from Swedish authorities and courts? Can they expect in part a permit application, partly a political process on emissions? Is that how you're supposed to interpret it? I think we need to know here, because it is about the conditions of companies, planning, long-termism, competitiveness and so on. Is it now the case that Swedish companies, when submitting permit applications to courts, should also expect their carbon dioxide emissions to be tested by an environmental-partisan and social-democratic government?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-130	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has decided that Sweden will have net zero emissions in 2045. We have decided on a climate law, and Louise Meijer's party is also committed to this. We see that this is a new stage in which we need to change all activities in order to meet the climate goals in the long term. To answer Louise Meijer's question, it was not that we took over a case after a verdict had been passed. After all, the case had been appealed and the court had decided to bring it up. That is when our authority reacted and informed the government. The County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland also informed the Government, and the Swedish Nature Protection Association and several private individuals did the same. This was done on the basis of the climate law that did not exist at the start of the case. So we have a new law, and it is important that we can test activities that are clearly aggravating for us to achieve what is the overall objective of the environmental code, namely that we should meet environmental objectives. A climate target is one of these environmental objectives. I would like to reiterate that it is important for the government that we review all relevant legislation so that it becomes clear that we do not make it difficult for this or future governments to achieve the climate targets. The whole of Sweden – municipalities, companies and industry – should have clear rules and laws to relate to so that you know what applies. If the government had not chosen to address this matter, we would have had a considerably less room for manoeuvre – it would have made it more difficult for the government to achieve the climate targets. It is this political assessment that must enter into such a big case, which affects our ability to reach the goals decided by the Riksdag when it comes to achieving climate neutrality by 2045. It is important that we have predictability and that we also have a successful business environment. Much of what has been started in Sweden thanks to the climate law that we have adopted is extremely positive. For example, we have huge investments in biofuels, fossil-free steel, biogas and electrification. It is a huge explosion of wind power expansion that occurs in Sweden thanks to the Climate Act. This provides stability and conditions for investment. In general, one can well say – and I can say this both as a minister and as a spokesperson – that it is not sustainable to invest heavily in fossil activities for individual traders if we now believe that we will achieve the climate targets and be down on net zero emissions in 2045. This is something that all investors need to include in their business plans from now on.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-137	Madam President, I would like By 2045 we will have zero emissions, and the Moderates are fully behind it. On the part of the Moderates, we take very seriously what is now happening, namely that the government has gone in and taken over a court case only after a verdict has fallen. Yesterday the Economic Council presented a climate report. They stated that Swedish climate policy must serve as interim targets to ensure that we reduce global emissions. Against this background, it can be observed that refineries in Sweden emit about 20 per cent less than the corresponding refineries in Europe. I don't doubt the government's commitment. Nor do I doubt the ambitions of the Government on this issue; I understand that it is a long-standing political drive that has brought us here. What I doubt, however, is the means and tools used to achieve the objective. I mean, you can't say here that the target justifies the means, but, as I said from the beginning, you have to watch out when you fight monsters so you don't become a monster yourself. I believe that this is a dangerous path that we have taken when it is possible to politically review and go into the middle of a court process and take over the judicial review to conduct a political review of emissions in Sweden. Then we will have parallel proceedings, one of which is a court case, which is rather a bit hypocritical. Then there is a political process where you know what the intentions and motivations for taking over the process are, namely that you do not want to see such types of activities in Sweden. I think this is dangerous. It damages the climate, it damages entrepreneurship, it damages competitiveness and it harms Sweden. It is neither a good climate policy nor a good policy for Sweden.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-144	Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate that this is a process that follows what the Environmental Code gives room for and what our authority – the Environmental Protection Agency, our main authority in terms of monitoring the climate – has expressed in its notification. We have not intervened after court proceedings, as Louise Meijer said earlier, but it was an appeal. We have also intervened after new legislation has been adopted. As far as Sweden's competitiveness is concerned, my view is quite the opposite of Louise Meijer. I am absolutely convinced that an ambitious climate policy is what drives Sweden's industry forward in a very positive way. We have a receipt for this in all the climate roadmaps that have now been submitted to Fossil-free Sweden. Here we can show the rest of the world – which arouses some admiration and surprise – that Sweden has come a long way in getting the business community to want to show Sweden as a shop window for sustainability. It is part of the Swedish brand that we should be very proud of. We also see that the large companies investing in Sweden are willing to participate in this journey. We are also attracting hugely new and large investments. The largest wind farm in Europe is now being built in Sweden, the largest battery plant is now being built in Skellefteå and we have a completely unique method for steel production without coal that actually starts in Sweden. When you listen to representatives of the business community who are involved in this, it is clear that it is Sweden's ambitious climate policy that enables these establishments and investments, which contribute to thousands of jobs and very much faith in the future, not least for the Swedish countryside.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-149	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to strengthen controls on the way to increasing the protection of the serious haulage industry. Recently, Thomas Morell and I here in Parliament debated the police resources for combating crime on our roads and the issue of the safety of professional drivers. We agreed then that these are important issues and that safety must be increased on the roads, as in the rest of society. The government is working hard to reduce crime. An accessible police force, a strong judicial system, good cooperation between authorities but also effective legislation can help combat all forms of crime. One of the government's priorities is therefore to continue efforts to strengthen police work. At the same time, we are also strengthening the other parts of the legal chain. The study referred to by Thomas Morell is an important one. It's made of Traffic Analysis on behalf of the government. The study points out, among other things, that demand for parking places is high and that truck drivers are a vulnerable group. Although the study does not show any increase in crime at scaffolding sites, at the same time traffic analysis studies have shown that a large number of drivers experience insecurity and report being exposed to crime and that the number of darkness can be large. Since the presentation of the study, the Government has taken several measures aimed at improving security in society and along the roads. For example, the Finnish Transport Agency has been tasked with reviewing how deficiencies in safe places for professional traffic along major roads can be remedied. The Finnish Transport Agency is now reviewing how the design of rest areas can increase safety and whether camera surveillance should be used to a greater extent. With regard to the issue of increased controls, the Police Authority has a wide-ranging mandate, which often involves a difficult balance of resources between different urgent tasks and geographical areas. However, it is important for the Police Authority to live up to its commitments throughout the country. It is the Police Authority that decides how resources are to be allocated internally within the organisation and what measures need to be taken to fulfil the tasks and objectives of the agency.
i-PsU61qHnrEv431hKjBYe7K	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Mikael Damberg! It was not so long ago that we stood here debating the same issue, and I also debated the same issue with Minister Tomas two days ago. You have different responsibilities, but here they touch each other. Shortly after the last debate, I received an email from a trucker. I read it last time and I read it now. It's like this: Hello Thomas! I hope you're okay. We daily have about fifteen drivers who take their night rest in the cabin, especially in Stockholm and Mälardalen. Read in Trailer about the risk of robbery, assault and burglary that creates an unsafe working environment for many truck drivers. Can sign it and get it to me daily from our drivers who are in the cabin and feel the same. The owner of the farm ends the email like this: Have for me that the Swedish Transport Administration has been tasked by the government to review how the lack of safe parking places can be corrected. What happened there? Nothing, I guess. But the problem is also that individual municipalities have parking bans on their streets. We'd be happy to pay a penny to have a place to stand. After the last debate, two days ago, I received an email from a reporter, because then the question of locks on the vehicles was up for discussion. It is quite interesting to see how these debates are also captured by others. The reporter writes: In addition, I interviewed Volvo many years ago, when they had just developed the new systems with alarms, the ability to lock the cab quickly and reduce speed if the vehicle was stolen. They said: The bus quickly learns which vehicles have alarms and other things. There is a risk that they will shoot the driver immediately before he has time to press alarm buttons. This would put locks and alarms at risk of greater and more deadly violence. This was the conclusion reached on Volvo. It is therefore a balancing process, because if we prevent too much, other methods will be used. This is a huge worry. As the investigation shows, many drivers are concerned. That is something we must take very seriously. The problem is not the employer, who was involved in the previous debate, but the problem is that society is unable to keep to those who engage in criminal activity, and it takes quite rough forms. There has been a dramatic change only since we had the previous debate, and that is what worries me enormously. I do not feel that the government is taking the matter seriously as it should be, because then it would have gone in and given clearer directives on how to deal with this. It should not be forgotten in this discussion that the way is the tool of criminals. The criminals are using the way for their activities. Here we have a professional group that is very vulnerable for the simple reason that they transport very valuable goods: computers, televisions and also makeup. It may sound strange, but it's actually so because makeup has huge amounts of money and can be quickly put on the market. You look very much at what you can access out on the road, and you do not hesitate to use violence to access the goods that are interesting. This causes a whole group of professionals to be very concerned about their daily work. I am a little curious to hear if there has been any change in the government since the last debate, if any steps have been taken, and if so, to deal with this.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-165	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for once again raising this important issue, because here we have a common commitment. Safety on the roads, order and work environment for drivers are really issues on which we have focused and will continue to focus. In Sweden, few industries have faced such a dramatic change in working environment and safety over the past ten years. Criminal gangs are acting, and there has been a lot of cheating and mess in the industry. It creates a downward pressure on wages and conditions and leads to the flagging out of Sweden of these jobs. We are therefore working both here at home and in the European Parliament on these issues in order to get the system in order. There has been a too naive, liberal view that there is no need for rules that people need to follow in this area when travelling in Sweden. Let's move on to the more tough issues of security. The most important thing we do to increase security is what I usually talk about, namely the 1 100 new police officers who were hired last year. They are placed and employed around Sweden. Just to make a connection with Skaraborg, I think there were 32 employees there last year. The robbery mentioned probably took place somewhere in the south of Stockholm, where 31 people were hired. When the police have increased staffing and the opportunity to stay out, they have more opportunities to hit international theft leagues and to have surveillance in places that are subject to crime. It is clear that it increases the muscle of the police justice system. Then there is the legislation, which I told you about last time. It is not a new initiative, but I believe that the new camera surveillance law has entered into force since the last debate. This means that the police must make an assessment of the legislation. They can decide for themselves when and where they want to set up cameras and do not need to apply for permission from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. This is an important change that has taken place. I believe very much in the cameras, because they have proven to create a lot of security in places that are subject to crime. Not only in particularly vulnerable areas, but also in other locations where you work with cameras, it will have an effect, and the police will have new tools to investigate crimes. We are now looking at a new legislation that will give the police greater opportunities to work with cameras in border areas in a completely different way. It would also increase the possibility of stopping international traffic and some of the theft gangs moving across Sweden's borders. That is a priority for me. As we talked about last time, the police have been commissioned by us to work on the issues of order and order on the roads and better control activities. They received special money for this and will submit a final report at the end of the year. Trafikverket has also been commissioned to work on the issue of safer parking places and to meet representatives of the industry. A conference had been held just before, and I know that Tomas Eneroth has met the industry to talk about these issues. There is a joint effort, not only to equip the 20 rest areas you have decided to equip, but to work systematically on security issues. We also have the joint work of several agencies dealing with order and order in working life. There is a link between the crime that occurs on the roads and what happens at rest places and other things. That is why we are working on this on a broad front. However, I am open to new ideas and proposals because we take this issue very seriously and we will continue to press hard on this issue. In addition, new EU rules on cabotage and posting will help in the fight on Swedish roads. Here, not least, the contribution of the Social Democrat Johan Danielsson was absolutely crucial.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-178	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Mikael Damberg. Road safety is extremely important. We are talking about a group that has the task of creating opportunities for the rest of us to have a decent life. They make sure that there are clothes and food in the shops, that the doctors have their equipment so that we can seek medical care and so on. These people have the task of making our society work, but they lack the support of society and worry about sleeping along the way. I have received many comments about this, and the Government is happy to go in and read these on my Facebook page. They are concerned about what can happen, especially if they have transport that is valuable. It goes without saying that if you do not feel calm and safe when getting into the cabin of your car you do not get the rest you need to be a safe driver the next day. In the end, you can't live under these conditions. One important thing must not be forgotten, and that is the police presence on the road. I have a background in both the control and the haulage industry, and police presence on the road is important for creating security. Then you have at least some contact with the authority out there and can seek help if needed. On Monday an article was published in the newspaper Trailer about an event at a rest stop at Ängelholm. At half-four o'clock in the night, the driver was awakened by the rocking of the car. Someone stole the cargo, in this case clothing. The driver made the mistake of going out and was then met by four perpetrators and was severely beaten. Of course, he should have stayed in the cabin and called the police, but he didn't and got hurt. An article in the newspaper Proffs, which came out in connection with the previous interpellation debate, tells about a driver at one of the major Swedish privately owned haulage companies. He, too, was awakened at night by the rocking of the car. He did not step out of the cabin but pulled away the curtain to see what was going on outside, and there the cargo was being stolen. What was nasty in this case was that one had a guard equipped with an AK5, that is, an automatic carbine, and everyone knows what the consequences are when one is fired. The driver was a father of three in his 50's, and he did not sleep very well for the rest of that night. He had to call for a colleague so that he could sleep in another car in another place, because he was afraid to be in his own vehicle. This is the reality and everyday life of many drivers, especially those who drive valuable goods. Society must shoulder its responsibilities here and ensure that there are sufficient resources to counter the criminal activities. For criminal activity takes too much place and affects ordinary, honest people who try to do a good job so that the rest of us can have a decent life. That is why society must help, support and try in every possible way to get to those involved in crime. I am still curious as to whether any concrete proposals have been made since the last debate. If not, there'll be one in a minute.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-187	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for the debate and the description of the problems. Let me ask Thomas Morell whether the measures I have listed are relevant in this matter. Does last year's 1 100 new police officers around the country matter? Is there more possibilities for camera surveillance through new legislation that allows the police not to apply for a permit but to use cameras where it is necessary? Is the mission to the police to increase the control of professional traffic important? Does the Swedish Transport Administration's mission from the government to work with safety together with the industry when it comes to inspection sites matter? Furthermore, does the strengthening of arms legislation matter? We have far too many illegal weapons in Sweden, and that is terrible. Now customs will have new powers and resources three years in a row to strengthen border protection. But we have also tightened the legislation so that the minimum penalty if someone is found with a sharp-charged weapon is at least two years in prison. If this is more serious crime, it is a matter of many more years than that. The role of politics is to prioritise and focus on this type of problem. I think these measures are moving in the right direction. If we can also use the new road package that is under way in Europe, where Sweden is driving new rules in the transport sector, we will be able to control some of the illegal traffic that creates so much trouble and concern on Swedish roads. We are working hard on the issue, but I am happy to listen to suggestions and views from different actors. But above all, Tomas Eneroth has a close dialogue with the industry about order and order on the roads. It also includes safety issues for drivers.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-192	Madam President, I would like I'll give you some quick answers to the questions I got. Camera surveillance and police are great. The crux of bringing people into police training is that they won't be cops until after a while. But that is the right direction and the right decision. I'd just like to see more of that product, because it's needed. However, there is one way to go to get a decent quick solution. The government gets it completely free of charge from us, and you can also read about it in our motion. There are now 70 car inspectors. It does not have the powers of police officers in all parts, but if you look at what they are legally allowed to do in road checks, you can see that only a little is missing to enable them to be used to speed up this process. If this staff group is trained so that it can be given higher powers, we have a further 70 that can help make the working environment on our roads safer. This concern should reasonably affect every one of the 349 Members of this House. We cannot have it this way, but we must put all possible resources in place to curb crime on our roads and create the security that the people out there can reasonably demand. You're welcome! Please consider this idea and come back if there are any questions.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-196	Madam President, I would like It's good that we're on the same idea. The government has started a work to review how we should not only have rules for order and order on the roads but also how control activities should work, which is exactly what Thomas Morell is into. We believe that professional transport should be characterised by fair competition with fair conditions and a good working environment. Then the rules must not only be there but also followed. This is why we have set up an investigation to review how the control activities of professional traffic should be carried out in order to improve the conditions. The investigation will produce proposals for this but also propose a comprehensive organisational form for control activities in order to achieve greater impact. I look forward to the police with their growing organization being able to make more checks and work smarter. I am also looking forward to the fact that we will have proposals on how to smartly create a single organisational form for better control activities. We'll keep track of the roads and a good working environment for the drivers.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-199	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I intend to work for violent imams that pose security threats to be banned from mosques and whether I believe that a Swedish version of restricted leave policy would be useful. L agen om special alien control, often referred to as LSU, is a tool for dealing with foreigners who are deemed to pose security threats to Sweden. Potential terrorists can be prevented from entering or staying in Sweden. An investigation is currently working to review, among other things, LSU(Ju 2018:08). The aim is to achieve effective, effective and transparent regulation that is at the same time compatible with the proper functioning of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. In some respects, the law is perceived as difficult to apply, and the legislation is in need of revision. In a request to the Government, the Security Service has requested that certain provisions of the Act be clarified and made more effective and that gaps be closed. The questions raised by the Security Service in their request are taken care of by the investigation. The mission also takes care of the issues raised in the Riksdag's announcement on LSU. The investigation's directive states, inter alia, that the investigator shall consider how to strengthen the control of persons deemed to pose a security threat and which cannot be expelled. The system in place in the UK, which is referred to as restricted leave policy, is similar to the control system currently under consideration by the LSU investigation. It is important that the legislation is reviewed in general and, in particular, that the control system for these persons is tightened up. As the investigation is under way, I cannot present today what the investigation will propose, but I look forward to the investigator reporting his mission shortly, namely by 31 March 2020.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-204	Madam President, I would like On 29 November last year, a special debate was held on how Sweden should deal with foreigners who pose security threats. In this connection, we proposed that persons awaiting expulsion should be subject to specific restrictions. For example, for obvious reasons, imams which pose a security threat should not be able to operate in mosques. In a comment on SVT, Mikael Damberg dismissed the proposal because he did not know how we would expect it to live up to international conventions. Madam President, I would like The UK has been wrestling with the same problem for a long time and therefore introduced in 2011 something called restricted leave policy. The regulatory framework targets persons who pose a threat to national security but where expulsion cannot be carried out and allows them to be subject to special restrictions as regards their right to work, study, choose their place of residence and receive financial assistance. Sweden and the United Kingdom are covered by the same international conventions. The British court, including the Migration Court of Appeal, has found on a number of occasions that the regulatory framework is in line with international law. Neither the European Court of Human Rights nor the European Court of Justice, as far as I can see, have ever stated that the policy would be contrary to the European Convention or the European Union's Charter of Rights. Even if, for example, a decision to prevent a violent imam from operating in a mosque could potentially conflict with international law, there is no precedent to point this out today. On the contrary, we have a clear practice from a well-functioning rule of law in our neighbourhood that points out a broad catalogue of tools that Sweden could potentially and may use but which we unfortunately do not currently use. What does Mikael Damberg mean, then, that the proposal would not live up to international conventions? The answer is probably that international law on rights sometimes tends to act as a comfortable excuse for ministers who are not really in the mood for or have the energy to assume their responsibilities and who are too anxious to make decisions that may be unpopular among left-wing journalists but are nonetheless necessary. Didn't the government say exactly the same thing about asylum immigration, that is, there was nothing they could do because of international conventions. It is exactly the same explanation that prevailed for a long time. I can only appeal to Mikael Damberg to come to his senses. These people are going out, and we need to use all the legal tools to ensure that they do as little damage as possible while waiting for the flight home, even if this is difficult, even if the Green Party is in the dark and even if the Social Democrats are in danger of losing some Muslim voters. I would like to ask the Government a simple question. Can the Government point to a precedent from the European Court of Human Rights or the Court of Justice of the European Union pointing out that what the Government says is true, that is to say that the proposal would be contrary to international conventions?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-211	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is important to say that the government has decided that the people we are talking about should be expelled from Sweden and that we have an LSU legislation that in some respects resembles UK legislation restricted leave but that their legislation in this area is a bit more complex than what the interpellier wants to assert. I would like to take a few examples and ask some counter-questions about whether the system should be introduced. There, a temporary residence permit is granted for six months, but when Sweden has decided that a person should be expelled, the person is not entitled to be in Sweden. We don't have a temporary residence permit. UK policy makes temporary residence permits, and it is rare that people are not allowed to work at all. They are not allowed to work in certain professions as the legislation is designed in the UK, but in Sweden the general rule is that people are not allowed to work if they are not allowed to work in Sweden, according to LSU legislation. We are now moving forward with a review of the legislation, where we have had some gaps. We also want to improve the control possibilities in the legislation. I understand that there is broad political agreement on making such changes. It has to be seen that in some respects our LSU legislation in Sweden, in the areas I mentioned, is perhaps something sharper than British legislation, because, for example, we do not have temporary residence permits. In fact, we have a general ban on working for people who have ended up in that situation, which goes beyond the British system. The question is where in the restricted leave policy you can see that the imams must not act as imams in the UK. We do not really find this, at least not in open sources in British legislation. There may be other legislation in which Britain finds ways forward and tries to limit and so on, but then it gets into a discussion. I understand that Ludvig Aspling expresses himself as he does – that there may not be precedents in this area because few countries have introduced and tested this type of system. We have both international conventions and a Swedish constitution to relate to in different contexts. It is based on civil liberties and rights that include freedom of religion and other things. Then I wonder how the Swedish Democrats have thought that a new legislation would work, what the purpose is and how it could be achieved. That is what I was expressing myself about. When we set up the LSU investigation, these proposals were not on the table. It was not that the Security Service had come to us and said that this was an issue in which they wanted to investigate and move on. Therefore, we set up an investigation that primarily took into account announcements made by the Riksdag in this context, but also to the advice of the Security Service. We have a study that will propose additional restrictions on these individuals' ability to operate in Sweden and, above all, look at their ability to be controlled more effectively. I think this is a good thing and hope that there can be a somewhat more in-depth discussion when the investigation, which will be extensive, comes up with its proposal. I expect that there will be a more comprehensive discussion then on the basis of a new basis for decision that both Ludvig Aspling and I will have to take to us shortly.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-217	Madam President, I would like The papers held by the Government are the Ministry of the Interior's manual for the application of restricted leave act.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-218	I read the same thing myself. How, then, did I draw from it that imams could be banned from working in mosques? It says about the restrictions that these people should be specifically stopped from holding jobs where they exercise authority over others, especially over young people. If you then add one plus one, it is easy to understand that an imam is a typical example of such a job. As far as the right to work is concerned, the Government is doing some legal cleavage. It is true that these people do not receive a residence permit in Sweden. Their situation is governed by Section 10 of the LSU. On the other hand, they get inhibition. Inhibition means you can stay until you get out of the country. This simply means using two different words to describe the same thing. In Britain, they do not, as far as I know, have anything called inhibition. They are content to call it a temporary residence permit. But the legal consequences are the same. When it comes to work, what Mikael Damberg says is true that in the vast majority of cases these people should not have any residence permits in Sweden without being subject to inhibition, and then they can't work. Whether this is true or not, there is no possibility for the Swedish parliament to see, as these statistics are not included in the letter supplied by the government. It would be nice if we could see an account of it the next time this letter comes, that is, of people who pose security threats. Is there any such person who has received this temporary residence permit under § 10, or has everyone had to settle for inhibition? I'm waiting to find out. As far as the role of the Security Service is concerned, of course, the request that comes from there and the wishes that they have are important. I understand that, too. But you have to remember that the Secret Service is not a politician. Nevertheless, I think that it should be politicians to some extent who are involved in the dance and who decide which new tools should be reviewed and in what direction the legislation should go. You cannot trust an authority to keep feeding you suggestions in this way. You have to take the initiative. With regard to the claim that in some respects Swedish legislation is sharper than the British legislation, I am doubtful. There is no possibility in Sweden, for example, to assign a place of residence. We have no way of doing that. It is an extremely effective tool to ensure that these people do no harm in civil society. Using this in the United Kingdom, I understand that it works in such a way that a person who, for example, belongs to a certain religious sect and there poses a threat that he spreads a certain extreme ideology can be placed in a place of residence where there are no others from this religious sect. It may not be very fun for him, but it is still necessary to ensure that this type of toxic ideology is not spread. The second major difference is the possibility of receiving financial assistance. As I understand it, there is no way for Sweden to strangle financial aid entirely for these people. It is ultimately up to the municipalities to decide whether these people should receive some kind of emergency assistance or perhaps even support. There, British legislation is sharper. As I understand it, there is the possibility of cutting off all types of financial aid. If you are in Sweden with inhibition because you pose a threat to national security and have the opportunity to receive a payment card from the municipality, I see it almost as offensive. We should ensure that these opportunities are cut off, which is not possible today. But we suggest that it be possible.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-228	Madam President, I would like The more you read about this and compare the systems, the more you see that there are more similarities than differences. Then there are differences, just as the interpellier is involved. The place of residence is definitely such a different regulation where the UK goes further than we do under Swedish law. On the other hand, like them, we have the system of notification obligations which also restricts mobility and the ability to act across the country. This means that the police have better control of them and also limits their ability to act in Sweden. If I'm going to interpret it as working as imam, you don't have the right to work as imam in Sweden either, because you don't have the right to work. When I read about the British system, it is said that you are not allowed to work in certain sectors and that you are not allowed to have certain jobs. In fact, however, in the UK it is quite often possible to have certain jobs. That's not how we designed our system. We are therefore generally tougher linked to LSU work in this area. When it comes to the question of whether you have the right to work, you do not have the right to work in Sweden according to Swedish legislation. I have said before, and perhaps there will be such a discussion in the future, that perhaps the LSU letter to the Riksdag should grow in scope and so on. But then we must also be very careful that we do not have too much information, because we want the Security Service to carry out primarily secret work on this and not reveal its methods. Above all, it is about increasing security for us in society. Thus, it is not certain that everything should be reported and openly discussed in all contexts. However, if there are requests from the parliamentary parties that this LSU letter is incorrectly drafted, I have said in the past that there must be an orderly discussion if the letter is to be developed in the future. I can't find any exact writings in my file now. But I can raise the issue of aid, that is, the issue of supply aid. The general principle is that you are not automatically entitled to supply aid in Sweden. But emergency supply aid, if you are without anything, is a right thing to do. This also applies to these individuals. If I read and understand the British system correctly, it is similar. This means that even if you risk everything, you are entitled to some form of emergency aid in the UK system. I cannot take poison on this, but that is how my lawyers and I have understood it when we have read about the British system. I am therefore saying again that there may be a difference in the margin. But in the first place, the aim is also in this area that we should not have a general grant grant to these people because they do not have the right to stay in Sweden and do not have the right to work in Sweden, and they should get out of Sweden whenever possible.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-235	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for having appointed a couple of officials to read through this letter. It's very interesting. You get a lot of ideas when you read it. You can see that different countries have the same problems and tackle it in a slightly different way. I think it is wise to look at what is being done in our neighbourhood. As far as work is concerned, there was a bit of a detailed discussion. But what I think would be good for the investigation that will see if there are possibilities to restrict the possession of a particular role rather than a formal job. From a purely legal point of view, I can see that this is very complicated. I have every sympathy for that. However, if I take an imam as an example, it does not always have to be about employment in the true sense of the law, but it can be about a more informal assignment that a person holds. Yet it is equally inappropriate. It would therefore be appropriate for the Swedish legislation to assume that it is certain roles and functions that it is inappropriate for certain persons to possess and that the law could then exclude them from the exercise of those functions. I think this may be something to bring along. I would like to ask you a brief question. In an interview with Expressen, Head of the Security Service Klas Friberg spoke a little about how to deal with this problem. He said the following, although they cannot be expelled, I still mean that they have an troublesome life to live in Sweden. On the one hand, they risk being expelled on the day the enforcement barriers arise, on the other hand they have a duty to notify the police with different frequencies and on the other hand have some of the rights they had by Swedish society before they received this decision taken away from them. ..................................................... What rights is he talking about here? I don't quite understand that. I would like an answer to that.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-239	Madam President, I would like It's a difficult question because I haven't seen the interview. I do not know exactly how he thought, but that may well be the issues we are discussing here – the right to work, the right to housing allowance and the right to stay wherever you want, that is, the freedom not to go to a police station and register several times a week. In many cases where LSU is applied, it is also possible to use secret coercive measures, which to a large extent interferes with the personal freedom of the people we see posing a major security threat to Sweden. I still find it a little unclear how the Swedish Democrats think about the imam issue and limitations, because, as the interpellier says, it is quite complicated. I therefore believe that we need to read the investigation as a whole. It will describe the system and will present new proposals on restrictions. If there are any further thoughts on how we get forward, we will have to discuss it then, but then you might also have to think about the legal. This is law, and it must land in clear law. We cannot have restrictions on issues that are very closely linked to human rights and freedoms without a clear legal framework for that. I would just like to remind you that it is already punishable to publicly urge others to commit terrorist offences and to fund terrorist offences inside or outside a mosque. Forbidding the imams to preach or visit mosques could be problematic in relation to constitutional rights. In that case, such a limit must be found, because I do not believe that we are served by legislation that undermines our human rights and freedoms in a situation where we have legislation and a security service that is trying to defend our fundamental human rights and freedoms.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-242	Then I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, Minister of State Anders Ygeman, Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-244	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. We Moderates want Arlanda to develop into a hub for growth and grow into the leading airport in the Nordic region. Since the Arlanda Council ended its work, the government has been sitting on its hands and left this issue for Sweden as important as this. At the same time, we are now seeing how important routes are being moved to Kastrup – that is very worrying. My question is whether and if so how the Minister wants to work to ensure that Arlanda develops into a leading airport in the Nordic region.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. It is of course important that we continue according to the flight strategy that this government developed and that we are working on developing the aircraft, whether it is about Arlanda or the regional airports, but at the same time it is very clear that the aircraft will change to cope with the climate change that all modes of transport need to do. It is about the transition to biofuels and eventually also about electrification. The Aviation Strategy includes work on the future of Arlanda, and the Arlanda Council has been working on this for some time. Now we are continuing these questions in the Government Office. This is, of course, as Maria Stockhaus knows, related to how to deal with the question of the future of Bromma. There we also have a dialogue in the region. Bromma's closure seems to take place in any case in 2038, or earlier.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-247	Madam President, I would like Arlanda is absolutely crucial for this region but also for the whole of Sweden. As the Minister for Infrastructure says, there is a great deal of change in aviation. These are both reduction obligations and, in the long term, electric aircraft, at least on short distances. At Arlanda, the ceiling is already being hit, not least when it comes to the infrastructure around the airport. The question is therefore when something specific will come about Arlanda, because there is actually a problem there already today.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-249	Madam President, I would like When it comes to what is now happening specifically at Arlanda, this is mainly Swedavia's responsibility. A renovation programme is in progress to improve the flow and application of baggage handling. It is important to modernise both Arlanda and many other airports. Basically, I firmly believe that aviation is needed for Sweden, but it needs to change. This means that we also have to make room at Arlanda for the necessary transition, with biofuels to a greater extent and in the long term certainly also electrification. We must ensure that climate challenges are met.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-252	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. We are now two weeks into the new year. Our current Prime Minister and his government had promised that Sweden in 2020 would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. One can see that one of the government's most important goals ended in a formidable magplasm and can only be called splendor fiasco. As unemployment falls in the EU, it increases in Sweden. According to the latest report, we reach 7.4%, which puts us at the bottom of the EU list together with countries such as Italy and Greece – this despite the fact that we have been in a boom. Although the government denies it, it does of course matter that Sweden has had an extremely high level of migration since the target was presented in 2013 at the Congress of the Social Democrats, while what we see is the result of an ill-considered labour market policy. My question to the Government is therefore: Is the government satisfied with its election promise and its labour market policy and its consequences for Swedish society?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-255	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Persson, for the question! The government does not issue any electoral promises, but different parties do. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that the unemployment rate in the last parliamentary term fell by over 11⁄2%. Youth unemployment decreased by good 5 percentage points. We have had and still have one of the absolute highest employment rates in the EU and the highest employment rate ever measured by Eurostat for any EU country. During the last term of office, employment increased by over 300 000 people, of which 200 000 were born abroad. The government has invested and continues to invest in various labour market policies that have produced results. At the same time, we can see that many more people are looking for jobs, and that is fundamentally positive. But it affects the unemployment rate.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-257	Madam President, I would like It is a pleasure that the Minister mentions labour market measures. The fast track, which would be a turning point, was launched in 2015. We are silently talking about this today, when they can most be referred to as a small slot, with less than 2 500 participants last year. The 5,000 promised standby jobs, launched on 1 May 2016, became a poor 500. And then there are the start-up jobs, which will create enormous displacement effects on the regular labour market. Isn't it soon time for the government to come up with proposals to create real jobs?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-258	Madam President, I would like Active labour market policies are important. Many of the initiatives taken by the government that continued to deliver results were unfortunately rejected with the M-KD budget that SD also supported just before Christmas last year. But we have many more measures in the January agreement, including start-up jobs and, still, additional services, which are a very important labour market measure.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-260	Madam President, I would like We are in a climate crisis, and everyone must do more to quickly switch to sustainable levels of emissions. The target should be no emissions at all. Before the end of the year, the government came up with a climate action plan. Despite this action plan, new motorways and increased capacity at airports in Sweden are still planned. In the light of the emergency climate situation we are in, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action whether the government is prepared to reconsider the climate-damaging investments in the construction of new motorways and increased air capacity included in the current infrastructure plan and other decisions. Are we prepared to reconsider this and dismiss some of the proposals that are actually on the table now?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! The Government presented to the Riksdag a climate action plan, which with 132 measures is extremely comprehensive, for how to convert Sweden to net zero emissions in 2045. Of course, we have a number of milestones that we must also achieve. It's urgent. The climate crisis is going on here and now. Then we also need the long-term instruments and the stability of society that will enable us to make long-term infrastructure investments. In the infrastructure plan, we have the biggest investment on rail in Sweden's history, both on maintenance and on the started high-speed railway, which will replace a great deal of the air traffic that of course is not sustainable for the climate – unless we switch to electric flights and biofuels for flights.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-264	Madam President, I would like Those railway initiatives really want to be part of the implementation of the Left Party. But it is not possible to get away from the fact that there are also proposals to build a large motorway just south of where we are now. I am talking about cross-connection Södertörn, which, for example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency dismisses for climate reasons. There are also proposals for a more than double flight capacity to and from Arlanda– you heard the discussion earlier. If this is done, we will not have an opportunity to achieve the climate targets we have set ourselves.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-265	Madam President, I would like There are no targets for a doubling of air traffic, but there are forecasts, and those forecasts certainly do not seem to come true given that flying is decreasing very strongly and has done so in recent years. We need to ensure that all our infrastructure is in line with climate targets, and we need to encourage electrification of the entire fleet of vehicles, including heavy traffic, which also needs to find new fuels to meet climate targets.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-268	Madam President, I would like The report after report points to increased electricity generation as a key to achieving the necessary transition in the automotive and industrial sectors. The need for electricity is expected to increase by approximately 60% over the next 25 years. We can also note that last year's greenhouse gas emissions increased in Sweden compared to the previous year. The largest increase is attributable to the electricity and district heating sector. Today, my question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin about Vattenfall's decision that Ringhals should close two reactors prematurely. The Economic Institute warns that emissions in connection with this decommissioning will increase by 8 million tonnes as a result of Vattenfall's decision. This is about 15 percent of Sweden's total emissions in 2018. The report also points to the risks of closure. It expresses the view that this could lead to a significant increase in emissions and calls for a re-analysis of the closure decision. Is the government's action on this issue responsible?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-271	Madam President, I would like When it comes to switching to fossil-free electricity, I can say that we have a historically large surplus of electricity in Sweden right now. We export and continue to export a historically large surplus even after the closure of R1 and R2. It is not the government that has decided on the closure of these reactors, it is Vattenfall. This has been done on a commercial basis and because of the security requirements that came into force from January this year. Security measures are tightened up due to the Fukushima disaster. We demand independent core colds for all reactors. They will withstand 72 hours of power failure so that we do not see a similar meltdown in the event of, for example, a terrorist attack or a natural disaster. These reactors do not have the safety standards required, and we must take responsibility for ensuring that there is no accident.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-273	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should never compromise safety requirements. Here we in the Christian Democrats believe that the only reasonable thing if you are serious about security of electricity supply and the climate is to make an unconditional analysis – which you from the government do not want or dare to do. The conditions are different today than when Vattenfall decided on the decommissioning of the two reactors. The harmful effect tax is gone, prices are higher and the impact of production on the climate has become clearer. Is it more important for the government to shut down reactors than for you to tackle the climate crisis?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-276	Madam President, I would like The unconditional analysis has been carried out by Vattenfall. You can take pictures of the bottom plate of one of the reactors, and it is rusted through. Making the huge billion-dollar investments that it means getting safety in these reactors and independent core cooling is basically burning for crows, for that money we can use for wind power that delivers much cheaper electricity, is much safer and can be done here and now and not with an investment horizon for many years.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-278	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin. In the dark shadow of the world's worst dictatorship, China, lies a beacon of democracy, freedom and human rights, and that is Taiwan. Just now Taiwan had elections, and the liberal and China-critical President Tsai Ing-Ing-wen was re-elected and gained great confidence in a democratic election. Today's industry reports that the government has sent congratulations to the Taiwanese people. That's very good. We shall stand up for those who believe in democracy, human rights and the rule of law. But does the government also intend to congratulate China-critical Tsai Ing-Ing-wen, and can the government consider inviting Taiwan's Head of State here to Sweden?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-281	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Joar Forssell for raising this issue. The government has no such plans, as far as I know. This is a question that Joar Forssell has to ask the Foreign Minister. Of course, we see it as important that democratic elections are respected, and we stand up for democracy worldwide, not least through our democratic aid, which we have increased substantially as a result of the January agreement where the Liberals have been driving us to do so. Democracy and respect for human rights are extremely important for sustainable development, and unfortunately we see strong forces pressing for democracy and human rights principles not to be mentioned or respected.
i-GHbLs6YkhZAQhVVFPh1NFQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for the answer! In 2002, the then Social Democratic government prevented the then head of state of Taiwan from coming to Sweden. The Head of State was denied access to Sweden. The Green Party has a finer history of standing up for human rights and democracy. Would it not be appropriate for Deputy Prime Minister Lövin to raise the issue of fully supporting Taiwan's democracy and human rights by inviting the Head of State and congratulating the re-elected President?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-286	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Government naturally respect the principles that exist for the recognition of states. It is the usual course that we must stick to, while encouraging and supporting democratic forces around the world.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-288	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. Now the new decade has begun, and in the new decade 95 percent of Swedish households would have access to broadband. Now it looks like we're missing that target. You might think there's not much left – I know that many countries would be very happy to have the degree of connectivity that we have today – but the problem is that it looks different depending on where you live in Sweden. It's just that it's so different I'm worried about. It is therefore important to consider the target of 2025, i.e. that 98% of households should be connected. These are ambitious targets that will narrow the gap between city and country. My question, therefore, is: how does the Government view this objective, and what needs to be done to achieve it?
i-LAi6ffgmcorpfrVg7hD8ZA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Denis Begic, for the question! I would first like to put this into perspective, as Mr Denis does. Sweden is the country in the EU where most people have high-speed connections. 86% of Swedes have access to high-speed connectivity. Over the past year, the gap has been closed. We have built broadband four times as fast in rural areas as in big cities. That's a good thing. But that's not enough. The government has higher ambitions than that, just as Denis Begic expresses. What we are going to do is get in place a new support system that focuses on those areas where it is most difficult for the market to build broadband and high-speed connectivity. We have added an additional SEK 650 million to finance this extension.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Anders Ygeman! A question that keeps coming up when I meet people around the country concerns companies that tie people into contracts but then don't deliver. What does the Government think about the poor delivery times and breach of contract that we see companies are currently committing around the country?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-296	Madam President, I would like It is indecent to promise broadband to people in rural areas and tie them up in two-year contracts but then not build. My reply is clear: not a penny of taxpayers' money should go to those who do not build broadband. When we have a new system in place, we must ensure that we can take away from the companies that use that possibility the right to expand broadband.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-299	Madam President, I would like Cultural creators and artists are the absolute foundations of cultural life. But the artists often work under tough conditions. The tough labour market with many temporary assignments, which are not always reasonably remunerated, leads to artists being excluded from society's social security systems. In order for culture to be able to continue to develop throughout the country, it is important that those working with culture have improved conditions. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven also mentioned this in the Government Declaration last January.
i-SZCi2fbG2wPh7s29egaZy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Sibinska, for the question. Sweden is a rich cultural country. But it wouldn't be if not all the people who work with culture and all the artists around Sweden existed. One of the most important cultural policy priorities of this government is to ensure that artists and cultural creators have reasonable conditions. We took an important first step in that work before Christmas when we gave various authorities a variety of assignments to improve artists' conditions in several ways. It is about reviewing how digitalisation affects artists and to map the organiser's conditions across the country. And Försäkringskassan will review how you work to inform artists how they can assimilate their rights. We must ensure that Sweden is a country where it is reasonable and possible to act as an artist and cultural creator also economically.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-305	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. I am delighted by the battery of measures taken to strengthen the conditions for professional artists and cultural creators. Structural changes are good. But artistic freedom itself must be guaranteed. What is the government doing in this area?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-307	Madam President, I would like Artistic freedom is fundamental. That's what the government's working on. We work to improve the conditions for artists, which is a basic prerequisite. We have also commissioned the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis to look specifically at how the principle of arm's length distance and artistic freedom is respected, both from the state side and around our regions and municipalities. I look forward to receiving the results of that mission, to see if we need to take further steps to strengthen artistic freedom.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-309	Madam President, I would like I am going to ask the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth about the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration has introduced a new fee of SEK 2,900 for laying up timber warehouses along our public roads. Forests are one of our most important industries. It creates many jobs in rural areas and in our industries. To add timber along our public roads it has previously been compulsory to report, but it has certainly not been subject to a fee. Now I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure a question. The timber must be removed from the forest because of the spruce bark. In some places there are also often small items. This means that the fee of SEK 2,900 can be very high in relation to the timber value that actually comes out on the public road and is delivered. Is the Minister prepared to change the road law and the road regulations so that forest owners and the countryside can avoid that charge?
i-VktwgXHA9SZUeX22N9SFKv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sten Bergheden, for the question and commitment! I come from Kronoberg County in Småland and remember how important it was after the storm Gudrun to quickly get the timber out of the forest, not least given the spruce bark and the risk of attack and damage to the values that were in the forest. That's a very important question. I was recently informed that the Swedish Transport Administration is about to start applying a law, a fee regulation, which has been in place since 2012 but which has not been applied. I'd like to take a closer look at that. It is important to ensure that there are good conditions for forest owners to manage the forest raw material and that there are good opportunities for rural areas to continue to have good nutrition and good conditions. So I will come back with a response to how we will deal with that fee in the future.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-315	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister. Is it not reasonable that, while we wait for the government's investigation, we do as we have done since 2012, that we remove the fee and review it before it is just introduced? I ask the Minister once again: does the Minister intend to remove the charge that is excessive in relation to the value that the forest industry needs to obtain?
i-5JGdy5xHyoQQKeHa9VA8u3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sten Bergheden! It is not that I intend to set up a long investigation into this. Now that I am aware of this, I would like to look at what the fee regulation looks like and where restrictions can take place. I also think it is important to be able to quickly give information on how to handle the fee in the future, if it is reasonable and why it is now being applied after not doing so since 2012.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-321	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Tomas. I was going to ask almost exactly the same question that was just asked. I therefore choose to go straight to the supplementary question. First of all, I would like to thank the Government for reviewing this. It needs to change. All authorities dealing with rural issues should have a promotion mission where one of their most important tasks will be to support or at least not to complicate it for rural entrepreneurs. One should ask what the consequences are before making decisions. I believe that this has not happened in the case of bark drills and this toll. It is often a small-time business. Bureaucracies placed on them prevent them from doing productive work. Costs that are spent on them reduce profitability and risk reducing their ambition level, linked to this particular thing with the bark drill. However, if the industry is to receive timber, small thinnings must also be carried out.
i-MFBtAx4gzK5BgTRx8ijMfQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Nordberg! Part of this concerns forestry policy, which is not my responsibility. But I'll tell you the truth, it's important. It is very important that we ensure that entrepreneurship in rural areas has good prospects. I myself come from a forest county and have worked on these issues for a long time. Whether it is about how Trafikverket affects the possibility of extracting forest raw materials or other government agencies, we in Sweden will of course help each other, in order to strengthen both entrepreneurship in rural areas and other activities. It's important. In fact, we're successful here. Now we have a government that makes extra big investments in rural areas. We are strengthening entrepreneurship. We are making sure to expand broadband to a greater extent than before, as we have just heard here. We provide good conditions for municipalities with tough challenges by changing cost compensation. Rural areas are important and now receive good support and support from a government that prioritises rural policy.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-329	Madam President, I would like Yes, positive things are happening. But the Swedish Democrats are worried. There is a policy that increases the amount of protected forests. Now this is forestry policy, so I will not drag it too far. However, foresters often submit their logging applications but do not receive a permit. So there are also trends that go in the opposite direction. The question now concerns this toll. I really want to send the message that it has to go.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-331	Madam President, I would like It's important to do both. Of course, we will ensure that we promote entrepreneurship in rural areas. As I said, I am looking at the fees. At the same time, it is important to be clear in forestry policy with the protection we shall have for biotopes and ensure that it is sustainable forestry. Here Sweden is the world leader. But we can do more, because it is important that we protect the biotopes that need protection in Sweden. We have a successful forestry policy there, and we are continuing to develop it. It is sustainable forestry we are talking about in Sweden, and we should be proud of that.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-333	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Environment and Climate Minister. Of Sweden's municipalities, 83 per cent indicate a housing shortage. It's a national problem. I would like to mention another equally serious issue. When Sweden's Municipalities and Regions last autumn, financial managers in all of Sweden's 290 municipalities asked what the economic situation looked like, four out of five replied that it looked worse for 2020 – that is, this year – than it did last year.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-336	Madam President, I would like I thank Marcus Jonsson for the question. The economic situation of municipalities is, of course, something that the government is looking at very carefully. We are very concerned about some of the municipalities, which clearly signal that there are shortcomings. In this respect, the Government may come back again with regard to the financial support. Since the government took office, we have introduced investment aid for the construction of, among other things, cheap rental apartments. This has led to an increase in, for example, housing for students and for those who cannot afford to go in and invest with their own cash in condos or buy villas. We have a need for rental apartments. This is a support that we are happy to be able to reintroduce. It was removed with the previous budget, but it is back, and it is also a support for the municipalities.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-338	Madam President, I would like It can look different within a county. Sundbyberg, where I live, is with its nine square kilometres of Sweden's smallest municipality. That's where you build a lot. In other municipalities within Stockholm County, less is built. However, according to law, the County Administrative Board should work for coordination between municipalities in terms of housing supply. I wonder if the government has any follow-up on how the county boards work with the issue of getting coordination within a county.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-339	Madam President, I would like Housing is an important issue. We are pleased to note that there has been an enormous positive development in the construction of new housing since the government took office in 2014. Of course, there is also a need for coordination and synergies between different municipalities in the same county. The Minister of Housing is following this issue closely.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-340	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Tomas Eneroth my question. Organized criminals often hire so-called car goalkeepers to be able to mispark and avoid paying taxes and charges. As a rule, the goalkeepers have no assets, so you cannot foreclose their debts. The government has done a lot in this area, as have the municipalities. In Malmö, from which I come, with the help of law enforcement and an active municipal work, we have ensured that we can simply seize the cars and thus get rid of the car goalkeepers. How does the government continue to work on this issue? This has been very successful, but we can do even more. What is the next step in the fight against this crime?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-344	Madam President, I would like I thank Hillevi Larsson for the question. There is solid work being done by the government to ensure that the development we have seen is halted, where car targets have been used as part of illegal economic crime. In the past, we have investigated and tightened up the possibilities of seizing cars and giving extra money to the municipalities to give them the resources to transport the cars away. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance was able to present a reboot of the coordination numbers, which have been used to some extent in this particular type of crime. I've also added a further investigation into car targets. It is a question of limiting the number of cars or vehicles you can own. It's one way to make sure you can't have hundreds of cars registered. These are clear efforts we are making to limit this type of crime.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-345	Madam President, I would like This is something that really gives hope. We can see that developments have turned around in just a few years, much because of the policy measures that have been taken. In Malmö, the willingness to pay has gone from 66 percent in 2015 to 87 percent in 2019, and it can go up even more if we continue this fight. Just wish you luck. We hope for new proposals and decisions here in Parliament to get rid of the car goalkeepers.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-346	Madam President, I would like Yes, it has been a successful job. At the same time, we know that crime tends to make use of new technological opportunities. It's a matter of being one step ahead of each other. Therefore, the investigation was set up to restrict ownership. There are also other efforts we can make. Much is about collaboration between the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. This work will continue in the future. I can guarantee you that.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-347	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Much remains to be done to meet the cultural policy objectives of accessibility and participation of people with disabilities. Not infrequently there are technical solutions, but often the problem is who will bear the cost. Let me take one example: the interpretation of films. A few years ago, a number of applications were made for visual interpretation. It was the Swedish Film Institute that paid for the development of the apps in a project. But after the project, the problem of keeping the apps technically up-to-date arises. It's a cost. That means no longer works. I assume that the Minister believes that accessible culture is of the utmost importance for participation, but who owns the issue? Who should pay for, for example, vision interpretation?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-351	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Finstorp for an important question. Access to culture is so much. It's about everyone having access to culture wherever you live in the country. But it is also, of course, a question of what the conditions are. Sometimes it's about physical access, about being able to physically enter a cultural space. But of course it's also about even the visually impaired being able to experience culture in a good way. As Lotta Finstorp says, we have overall objectives for this, adopted here in Parliament. The funding of this type of action lies on a wide range of actors. Sometimes it is up to municipalities to make investments. Sometimes it is on the cultural institutions themselves to work actively on this issue. I am not familiar with the specific issue of the Film Institute mentioned by Lotta Finstorp. Generally speaking, we do not usually go in and control this type of initiative in detail. But, of course, I expect that our various actors who work to meet the cultural policy objectives will also be active in accessibility.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-354	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy for his answer. The project had a very good purpose. But like any project, it ended. Then there must be something that takes on. Many of the solutions assume that target groups are homogeneous. But if, for example, a certain theatre play, musical or concert is interpreted, it may be only at one time, and then the individual may not be able to. Individual solutions are needed. Would that be possible?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-357	Madam President, I would like We know that individual solutions are needed. A variety of actions is needed. One can never limit the question of accessibility to the fact that there would be a single measure that works for all types of disabilities that exist. I believe that we can handle a great deal by ensuring that the knowledge acquired by various projects, wherever they occur, is taken into account and that we try to disseminate it as much as possible. Let's look further at the question.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-359	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin and concerns the increasing costs of the country's motorists. The fact that the government in which Lövin is involved aims to tax motorism can hardly be contradicted. The tax on fuel is increased every year, and vehicle taxes are increased for many car types, while significant reductions in the travel allowance are discussed. As if this were not enough, the congestion tax is also being raised and planned to introduce it in more places. It has now gone so far that when the government does not increase the tax as much as planned, it chooses to call it a tax reduction. An employee who has already paid taxes on his or her income pays vehicle tax, fuel tax, fuel tax and fuel tax, as well as congestion tax. For those who depend on the car in their daily lives, this is having unreasonable consequences. My question is: when has the roof been reached and that is enough, and is the government planning more charges for the country's motorists?
i-3qNy9PUbnbQ2mQoZiW5G4d	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eric Palmqvist, for the question! We have a major challenge ahead of us to switch from coal, oil and gas, as a cause of climate change, to a climate-neutral society. There, tax is an instrument that we can use. But we also use a lot of carrots in the form of subsidies to those who buy a zero-emission car and contributions to those who want to install a charging point at their home. We want to ensure that we have a travel netural deduction. We also want to ensure that we benefit those who do not have an alternative to the car, that is to say those who live in rural areas, while those who live in the big cities and have good access to public transport do not need to be supported in the form of travel subsidies.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-365	Madam President, I would like I know a single woman here outside Stockholm. If she is going to have time to leave children in kindergarten and then be at work at 8:30, she must start her day at 5:00 in the morning if she can't afford to use the car anymore. Does the Government consider it reasonable for workers to choose between either moving or resigning to have time to socialize with their children? That is the consequence of the policy pursued by the government.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-367	Madam President, I would like We must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to have a life puzzle that goes together. There are many parts there. It is about working time, public transport, flexibility and the possibility of being free when children do not have school or childcare. It is a policy that the government is pursuing to enable people to spend as much time as possible with their children but also to live in an environmentally friendly and climate-smart way. We all need to contribute there.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-369	Madam President, I would like I also have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin. Last week, the report on the closure of secular free schools was submitted.The report points to strong legal concerns in relation to international conventions supported by Sweden. Article 2 of the Additional Protocol to the ECHR reads: In carrying out the activities of the State, the State shall respect the right of parents to provide their children with upbringing and instruction consistent with the parents' religious and philosophical convictions. ..................................................... According to the Minister for Education Anna Ekström, the government is determined to defy the legal concerns and establish a stoppage. My question is whether the government intends to introduce the stop in the form of law or regulation.
i-TnVyoKR9Y3WT6gpqoTtzU9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the question! The government has taken the initiative to tighten the regulatory framework for independent schools with a professional focus. An investigation is under way with the task of reviewing and, if necessary, tightening the regulatory framework. We have seen this as necessary. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the government wants to see a stop for independent schools with a secular focus. The government has therefore commissioned an investigation to make proposals that are necessary to put a stop to new religious free schools. The report's proposals will be presented in December this year. During the last parliamentary term, an investigation looked at the possibility of banning non-confessional schools on the basis of the ECHR and other international commitments. We are simply waiting for the investigation that has been set up.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-377	Madam President, I would like Sundsvall, Gothenburg and Malmö are half an hour further away from Stockholm than in the 90s, in any case if you are going on a train. If you're going to drive or fly, it's not the same. Madam President, I would like We have had more than 1 million trains on our railways last year. We need more tracks. Now I just mentioned the trains up to Sundsvall. It's half the country geographically. Then I'm no longer talking about the other half. We need more trains. We need more opportunities to travel by train. We need this both for people and for goods. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure: What does the government do? The whole Parliament can now hear it and listen carefully.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jasenko Omanovic! That's right. I went on the millionth train. Last year, there were over 1 million trains. It's a new record. There have never been so many trains on Swedish railways. Interest is increasing, and more people want to travel climate smart. More people want to reduce their carbon footprint, and more companies want to send more goods by train. That is why we are now making the biggest railway effort in modern times. We're renovating, and we're repairing. We're building a new railroad, whether it's Norrbotniabanan or the South East Link. It's important. Sweden needs more train capacity if we are to meet the climate requirements and be able to ensure sustainable development for transport systems. It connects the country in a good way. You can travel all the way up to not just Västernorrland but other beautiful parts of the country. At the same time, you make sure you reduce your carbon footprint. That is why we are not only pursuing the greatest railway effort in modern times. We also want to build new main tracks to properly increase the capacity of a growing Sweden. We are now over 10 million people in this country.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-385	Madam President, I would like During my jogging tour this morning I found fantastic locations on the fairly limited surface. Amassed here are historical scenes, marine environments and open landscapes while there are muddy and exciting creeps. About that the director, scriptwriter and actor Hanne Holm described my hometown Karlskrona when we met in August in connection with the Carl International Film Festival. This applies not only to Karlskrona, but also to the rest of Sweden offers fantastic and unique scenes for film recordings. At the same time, more and more film recordings are being filmed abroad. The cause is spelled production incentives. The film industry had expected tax relief or tax rebate in the autumn budget. This year it is estimated that there will be a loss of 1 1⁄2 billion. What does the Minister of Culture do?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annicka, for the question! The Swedish film industry is of extremely high quality. We notice this not least at film festivals where actors, filmmakers and producers are rewarded for our film production. It is very important that we also continue to make sure that Sweden has competitive conditions and that film recordings continue to be conducted in Sweden. It is important both for our film industry and our creative industry and for the supply of expertise in the film field. The Government gave the Swedish Agency for Growth a mandate to analyse whether production discounts or any other type of incentive could be useful to stimulate Swedish film production. These questions are still under preparation.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-392	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of the Environment Isabella Lövin. The Moderates have today put forward in the Tax Committee a proposal for new management of the coordination number, in which we demand, among other things, personal suspension and photographing and fingerprinting. We also call for the existing coordination numbers to be phased out within a year. The aim of the coordination numbers has been to help newcomers to get into work more easily. Unfortunately, the numbers have been used for criminal purposes and for fraudulent purposes to withdraw contributions from our insurance systems – to a large extent. My questions to Isabella Lövin are therefore: Why does the government not want to assist our proposal that all 1 million coordination numbers should end within a year? Does the Government believe that today's administration is legally secure?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-396	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for the question! The government welcomes the fact that the issue of coordination numbers has received attention. As the Minister for Finance announced, we will now review and re-launch the coordination numbers. It is also important to point out that the coordination numbers do not grant a work permit. They also do not give the right to health care, they do not qualify for Swedish social security, they are not enough to open bank accounts and they do not give the right to enter Sweden or to stay here. The coordination number is an identifier and nothing else. Then, of course, there is room to improve this, among other things, so that the numbers will cease after five years. There is also room for a number of other improvements which mean that the numbers do not exist forever and that the addresses of those with coordination numbers are better checked.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-400	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the EU's lowest growth rate. We have high unemployment. It is still a fundamental problem that it does not pay enough to go to work. At the same time, people feel that they don't get currency for their tax money – whether it's health care, care for the elderly, law enforcement or school. This is also very much true of climate policy. A few days ago, the Red Green Government's climate policy was awarded the worst waste of the year in 2019. Climate policy appropriations have more than doubled in recent years, while emissions have in principle stopped decreasing. Therefore, I wonder, Minister Isabella Lövin: What do Swedish taxpayers actually get for their green tax money?
i-CYmRG68etubqmj6HGFdjR1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Bouveng, for the question! We have millions of young people around the world demonstrating their right to a future. We don't have the right to destroy this planet for our young people. It is not true that emissions are not decreasing. Sweden's climate policy has been named the world's best three years in a row. We need investment to switch, both on the tax side and in favour of business investment in green technologies. But what the Moderates are doing is spending $7 billion on reducing petrol taxes in the midst of a burning climate crisis. It is not really half, but about half, of the entire environmental and climate budget. That's what you're investing in making it cheaper to let out. It is not an effective climate policy. In addition, I note that the Moderates are behind major road constructions, such as the Stockholm bypass, which is greatly increased.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-409	Madam President, I would like Gangsterrap is a music style that romanticizes crime, glorifies violence and spreads a disgusting view of women. Its practitioners are criminals even in real life. Recently, one of them was arrested for murder. It is ominous when gangster rappers become role models for children growing up in the suburbs – not because they are talented artists but because they are successful criminals. At the same time, the genre receives support from the public.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-412	Madam President, I would like For me as Minister of Culture and Democracy, the principle of artistic freedom, arm's length distance to culture and freedom of expression are absolutely fundamental. We have legislation that regulates what we can say. If you cross such a line when it comes to, for example, incitement to a population group, it is a police report and if so, the crime is investigated. But in no way do I intend to go in and direct what kind of genre in music should be given public funds or try to control the cultural content.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-416	Madam President, I would like The Government's goal is that Sweden should be at the forefront of climate targets. Global problems need to have a global focus, and this is lacking in Swedish environmental policy. The government has already engaged in tax increases in the name of the environment during the last parliamentary term. It is increases that have hampered jobs, growth and cohesion. Near my constituency in Bohuslän is Preemraff. They want to develop their production of fuel to include a larger part from the forest. Looking at the issue in a global perspective, this is a good environmental benefit, and it creates more jobs locally. Madam President, I would like It is companies that create jobs and growth. My question to the Minister for the Environment is whether she sees that there may be a link between increased environmental requirements and company relocation to other countries.
i-7CZ75A1FxYSLY3fzQfgRaG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for the question! First of all, the whole world has signed the Paris Agreement. Everyone is going down to zero about the middle of this century. The EU has just gone in to sharpen its objectives. So if you are going to move somewhere, the question is where to move; you can possibly move to the countries that intend to leave the Paris Agreement. Do I agree that environmental requirements lead to company relocation? I'd say it's the other way around. This leads Sweden to attract companies. Right now, Europe's largest wind farm is being established in Piteå. Europe's largest battery factory is being built in Skellefteå. A world-unique steel production that is fossil-free is currently underway in Luleå. These are entirely initiatives that Sweden has attracted because of our climate law and because we have the world's most ambitious climate policy right now. And others follow.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-424	Madam President, I would like A few days ago, SNS' Economic Council Report 2020 was published: Swedish policy for global climate. Behind this report are nine highly qualified researchers focusing on important environmental and economic issues. They have wanted to identify which policies are most effective in bringing emissions down globally. Eight out of nine researchers believe that Sweden should spend money abroad to a greater extent than it is now, as there is more emission reduction per krona. The exception is the former spokesperson and Minister Åsa Romson, who believes that Sweden should take precedence despite costs. Measures against the rise in temperature are urgent and must, of course, be implemented where they are most effective. A global perspective should be obvious but does not seem to be for Åsa Romson. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether she shares the position expressed by Åsa Romson.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-428	Madam President, I would like Sweden pursues a global climate policy in the highest degree. We are one of the world's by far the largest donors of climate aid. We are extremely active in both the UN and the EU to push for an active climate policy and to make it more expensive to release. The Swedish Proposal, which is highlighted in the report that the honourable Member mentions, is the result of the fact that the Swedish Government and I were extremely active in ensuring that prices on the EU's emissions trading system are raised. This has led to a reduction in coal investment in Europe of over 20% last year. This is how– we have a leadership role, and others follow. We now see that Finland, Denmark and Austria have adopted more ambitious climate targets than we have. That is how we conduct effective climate policy. We have the opportunity and also a moral responsibility to do so.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-431	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked the Prime Minister how he intends to act to change the procedures for service weapons and arms management to prevent more thefts from the Government Office. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The safety work in the Government Office contains several elements that together contribute to creating a high level of protection. Surveillance services are part of that work. For this purpose, following a public procurement, the Government Office has engaged a company to provide guarding services. Weapons should not be able to disappear from the offices of the Government Office. The fact that weapons have disappeared from the security company is obviously very serious, and the incident is now being investigated by the police. The Government Office has also had dialogue with the guard company, and various measures have been taken. As the security work in the Government Office is covered by secrecy, I cannot go into any details of what these measures are.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Sweden had over 300 shootings in 2019. People's concerns about serious organised crime are increasing. Now it has been reported that on three different occasions there have been thefts of small arms, guns, from the Government Office – only in April and then in early October and mid-October. It is about seven powerful small arms – a question is whether the Government knows if there are exactly seven or if there are more guns that have disappeared – as well as hundreds of cartridges and even magazines. What has come to light is that a complaint was made in April but that the investigation was closed. It would be interesting to know if that is true. It has also been said that there was a camera at the gun cabinet but that nothing was recorded. It is also a question that is reasonable to ask – if the Government knows anything about it, how it is. Another question that I think is reasonable to ask is why the government and the Government Office have taken the opportunity to decide whether individual security guards are suitable for missions in the Government Office. I read an interview in DN with the Head of Security of the Government Office Fredrik Agemark, who states that the Government Office has not performed a security clearance of its own. The review carried out by the County Administrative Board is not nearly as thorough as a security clearance under the Swedish Security Act. A decision by the County Administrative Board also applies for a certain period, up to five years. A security clearance under the Security Act shall be updated on an ongoing basis, allowing new deficiencies to be detected more quickly and the security clearance may be withdrawn.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-442	This type of gun is very powerful. This is exactly the same type that the Swedish Armed Forces are now buying in as a service weapon. In an interview in the latest Dagens Juridik, police investigator Carola Pettersson says that, sooner or later, these weapons will be used by criminals, for example in a shooting, and that would be terrible. The article also says that the weapons cabinet had not been surveyed for several months when it was discovered that weapons were missing. Even around that there are question marks. I believe that the Swedish people have a number of questions about this. The government office is supposed to be the safest place, you imagine. Yet seven guns have been stolen from there, not at one, not at two, but on three occasions. Can the Government provide answers to the questions I have now asked?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-445	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by stating that we regard what happened as very serious. Therefore, the Government Office has conducted a dialogue with the supplier and made demands, and various measures have been taken. It will not disappear weapons from the Government Office. What security measures the Government Office has taken in connection with the incident, I cannot and should not go into. What can be said is that the Government Office takes security work very seriously and that the Government Office's security work is based on several different measures to both reduce vulnerability and create an effective level of protection. The Head of Security of the Government Office is responsible for the security of the Government Office. The security company is responsible for its personnel and equipment, including weapons. The legislation is clear – according to the Arms Act, the holder of the firearms should take care of the weapons and keep them under such supervision that there is no risk of unauthorised access to them, and when a weapon is not used, the holder is responsible for the safe storage of the weapon. When a security company holds weapons, it is the company responsible for the safe storage of the weapons. It's clear. Another issue is that the guard company, which is responsible for its staff and equipment, also has a security agreement that regulates how the company should work with security protection. Under that agreement, it is the responsibility of the supplier to carry out the security clearance of its employees. It is therefore clearly regulated who is responsible for this work. I received several questions that I choose not to answer. You can have different thoughts about that. Interpellation debates usually aim to get answers to your questions. However, in this case, there are detailed questions and some statements in the media that I do not want to confirm or deny, because what we are discussing now is one of the most protective. It is the government of Sweden that should be secured. Information relating to the protection of central government management and security work in the Government Office is therefore highly worthy of protection. That information may also be foreign power interested in finding out. Some of these issues and tasks are affected by defence secrecy, and others are affected by commercial secrecy. At present, some of this information is also covered by preliminary investigation secrecy, so disclosure of some of it could be a breach of professional secrecy. I believe that the interpeller is aware that we should not go too far into the details of this at this point in time when investigation work is under way. However, I would like to reiterate that the Government Office has conducted a dialogue and made demands, and measures have been taken by the company which have increased safety and protection. In general terms, it can be said that in recent years the Government Office has made extensive investments in security protection in various ways. That work is continuing, and it is a matter of high priority in view of the world events that have occurred. The Government Office is constantly assessing how safety needs to be taken care of, and the international situation and threat picture affect the assessments made. How future work will be regulated is not suitable for a public debate in the Swedish Parliament's Chamber.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-453	Madam President, I would like The Government says that this should not happen, but it has happened. There have been thefts at three different addresses at the Government Office. This is happening in a situation where we have huge problems with shootings. We are the country with the most shootings per capita in Europe. This applies not least in the city I come from, Uppsala. Now that there is a security legislation that allows the Government Office to conduct a security clearance under the Security Act, it seems strange that this possibility is not being used. The review by the County Administrative Board is something that makes you approved for up to five years. A security clearance under the Secrets Act can be updated, which I was on, continuously. I understand that the government has called on other authorities to take this more seriously. Then I think that a lot of people wonder why the government has so far abandoned this opportunity to have more control over who are the guards at the Government Office. The follow-up responsibility lies with the Government Office – various experts have spoken about this – and in the second place at Säpo. The government has also worked intensively to reduce the number of weapons. We have also heard that if you lose a magazine as a hunter or a sportsman, you can lose your license. It's a very tough piece of legislation. Is it not such a focus on sifting mosquitoes that you miss the elephants? Should we not place greater emphasis on sweeping our own doors and making sure that we use the possibilities provided for by the legislation to have a better control over who works as a guard? This pistol model, Glock with nine millimeters of bullet, is very powerful – as powerful, I have been told, as at the tragedy that happened when Prime Minister Olof Palme was murdered. Then it was a Magnum 357, but it is about the same powerful weapon that has now been stolen, seven, along with several hundred cartridges. I think we can understand the police who have now spoken out and said that these weapons will sooner or later be used by criminals, and it feels terrible. There are probably a lot of people who feel the same way and who wonder whether this legislation will be used in the future to better track who are guards and who have access to these weapons, to minimise the risk of future theft of government weapons.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-460	Madam President, I would like The new, strengthened Swedish Security Act covers public authorities, but it also includes private companies in those contexts where it is important for Sweden's security. So it is really an increase in ambition. It is a modernisation of the legislation. It is much clearer who should be covered and how this should be done systematically. In this case, it is the responsibility of the supplier to carry out security checks on its employees. Part of this security clearance may also involve register control, and it is carried out by the Security Service. It is therefore clearly regulated how to work with security protection. This is only a small part of the work to prevent someone from breaking into and stealing into the Government Office, but there is a clear division of responsibilities. This is the security company that, according to the Arms Act, has to keep track of the weapons you have. Its employees must also be checked to do the work properly. I can really emphasise that I feel the same commitment to this issue as Mikael Oscarsson. That there is good security in the Government Office is an interest that I believe the entire Parliament shares. This is the responsibility of the Security Department of the Government Office. They have made tough demands, and measures have been taken. Now there's a preliminary investigation. There is also continuous work on routines and on how things will be handled in the future. I do not want to go into that, however, because it can help those who would like to harm us in any way to know how the security work is done. This is not something we take lightly. It is also consistent work. Now there was a completely different discussion about the big issue of the explosions and shootings that occur in Sweden and the gang violence that plagues our country. There we have made many different changes. A very important issue is the stringency of penalties and the serious gun crime that actually involves compulsory detention. If you're found with a gun, you'll go to jail and be locked up for at least two years, often longer if it's serious crimes. Another thing is that, after listening to the police, we are moving forward with new legislation. Today, weapons warehouses are completely unregulated. We'll discuss that later here. We want to be able to give prison sentences to gang criminals who are actually running around with weapons magazines. There is a misconception here, for example that this would affect hunters and sportsmen to a greater extent. You can have as many magazines as you want for the purpose if you are a hunter or a sportsman. If you hunt, practice or compete, you can have the magazines you need. It's not like it's a criminal offense to lose a magazine as a hunter. Some errors are spreading, but that is another issue. I share the view that we should be firm on the weapons. We will ensure that customs are given new resources and powers to stop the illegal weapons coming in, and we will ensure that gang criminals are punished if they handle weapons. I hope that in a creative but also constructive spirit we can agree on this in the Swedish Parliament. This issue is serious and important. Action has been taken on the part of the company, and it is continuous safety work that needs to be improved. This is not how it's supposed to work in the Government Office!
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-470	I would like to remind you that the interpellation is about the gun theft in the Government Office.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-471	Madam President, I would like Something very serious has happened. Seven guns, powerful small arms of the same type as the Swedish Armed Forces are now purchasing as service weapons, have been stolen along with hundreds of cartridges and magazines. The question is what action was taken when the first theft took place in April. Then there have been two more thefts. I did not get a correct answer to this: have we made use of the legislation that allows us to see whether individual security guards are suitable for their mission? The head of security says you haven't done it. There is therefore a review by the County Administrative Board, and it is not as profound as a security clearance under the Security Act. It can also provide the opportunity to operate for five years, while using other legislation can deal with this on an ongoing basis so that there are no safety risks. My question, then, is whether the Government Office is now using the opportunity that exists and does not remove it, that is to say, the legislation that makes it possible to have a better track of who is working as a guard and who has access to these weapons. Finally, it is very important that this does not happen again, that additional weapons are not stolen and that the gaps that have proved to exist are closed so that this can never happen again.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-475	Madam President, I would like The interpeller and I fully agree that we must ensure that this cannot happen again. That responsibility lies with the Government Office. I have pointed out on several occasions during the debate that there has been dialogue, there have been demands and action has been taken. On the other hand, I am a little surprised that the interpeller continues to ask detailed questions about processes and procedures in a situation where the answer to those questions may be covered by defence secrecy, commercial secrecy and, in some respects, preliminary investigation secrecy. We have no interest in revealing this information in a television interpellation debate because this is ultimately a security work that we must take very seriously. We have discussed a very important issue. Measures have been taken and this will not happen again.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-478	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what consequences I think the bill on weapons warehouses has for the country's hunters and sportsmen. He has also asked me what consequences and increased costs the proposal will have for the Police Authority in terms of processing, licensing and controlling the warehouse holdings and applications of the country's hunters and sportsmen. The Government's proposal to regulate weapons warehouses means that those who have a licence or right to hold a particular gun for firing may freely hold one or more removable warehouses for the weapon. They may keep it as long as the warehouses are intended for the same purpose as the weapons permit or the right to hold the weapon. In practice, therefore, the proposal does not concern our responsible hunters and sportsmen. Of course, they have a permit for their firearms and will continue to be able to train with their weapons and use the magazines intended for hunting and target shooting without having to apply for a permit for the magazines. The proposal will therefore mainly concern museums and individual collectors, who will need to apply for authorisation to hold arms storage facilities. An application will need to be completed and submitted to the Police Authority. Since only a limited number of magazines will require authorisation, the Police Authority has made the assessment that the new regulation will in principle not impose a significant workload on the Agency. The somewhat greater administrative burden that the proposal imposes on, above all, museums and individual collectors of weapons warehouses must be set against the strong interest in restricting access to weapons warehouses in criminal environments. We are in a situation of serious gang crime, and we must do everything we can to stop the shootings. The Police Authority is asking for regulation of weapons storage facilities and believes that such regulation would clearly improve the police's ability to stop the illegal use of firearms in Sweden. For the government, the fight against gang shootings is a top priority, and we choose to listen to the police.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer, even if there is a great deal missing from it! But perhaps we can sort some things out during this debate. The government continues its efforts to make it more difficult for the country's legal hunters and sportsmen. Instead of chasing the serious criminals, stopping the introduction of illegal weapons and stopping the criminal gangs, new proposals are now being put forward that are damaging to Sweden's legal hunters and sportsmen. We can start with gang crime, to which the government refers. There, the Moderates have put forward a long list of measures to get to the serious criminal gangs. This has been ignored by the government more or less. Instead, they want to settle their policy with the Green Party. Instead of focusing on the real problems, the government is putting energy and energy into hunting the country's hunters and sportsmen. Madam President, I would like Sweden's arms owners, more than 600 000 people, we have no problem with. On the contrary, they perform important tasks in society such as caring for our game tribes, engaging in their sport with a lot of training and having great success in shooting competitions around Sweden and the world. Madam President, I would like Sweden's arms owners have gone through a very extensive education. They must take approved tests. It is tested whether they are fit to have weapons, and they have high demands on the storage of their weapons, even though the Government Office in some parts has failed in the storage of its weapons. In addition, it is checked every 24 hours if they are to retain their weapons. Anyone who does something wrong is in danger of losing their weapons immediately. Sweden's hunters and sportsmen are perfectly legal, otherwise they would not have any weapons. Sweden's hunters, sportsmen and collectors should not be hunted! They should be encouraged in their work and activities! They run our game tribes and train and win great prizes in the world, and they care for some of our cultural heritage. Yet this government intends to put forward new proposals that affect Sweden's hunters, sportsmen and collectors, and the government is trying to blame gang crime. This is being done despite the fact that it is already perfectly possible for the police to dispose of weapons warehouses in the hands of criminals. The police take care of, hear and astound, already about 900 magazines a year. It is therefore perfectly possible with the current legislation to take care of magazines when necessary. Already today, the country's hunters and sportsmen have to wait far too long because of long processing times to be able to change or buy a new weapon, hunting rifle or sporting weapon. Despite this, the government intends to introduce new tasks for the Swedish police, as if it were not enough to pursue gang crime! The government has thought that the Swedish police will also begin to control the country's legal hunters and sportsmen when it comes to magazines. It is resources that could instead be used to combat serious crime. Madam President, I would like Virtually all referrals condemn the government's proposal to regulate weapons warehouses. The Council has examined it and made criticisms of the proposal. Yet the Social Democrats and the Green Party have chosen to put forward a proposal and a policy that is not supported by Parliament and which will be voted down by a very broad majority. Madam President, I would like Instead of chasing the country's legal gun owners, the government should implement the proposals decided by the Parliament. It is a review of arms legislation with a view to reducing the length of processing times, abolishing the requirement for the authorisation of silencers and removing the limited arms licences, because this review costs both work and time for the police. Furthermore, it is a question of extending the arms curtain and reviewing the weapons passports.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-494	Madam President, I would like I repeat: the proposal is about getting to the gang criminals who do not have a gun license today. They know exactly how the legislation works. Today, it is perfectly legal to own and hold any number of weapons warehouses. In criminal settings, it is known that you can safely store the weapons warehouse separate from the ammunition and the weapon. Then they often have the magazines at home. If the police cannot then link them to any criminal use, the police today are not in a position to seize weapons warehouses. That is completely unreasonable! This has been pointed out by the police in two letters to the government. Responsible for Operation Rimfrost in Malmö, the police chief, has said that getting this legislation through would make it easier to get to the gang criminals. The Moderates reject the police's request. This is not our idea, but it is the police who have said that they would like to do this to also put gang criminals in prison if they have weapons warehouses. Now Sten Bergheden– I think he said it four times during his speech – that this affects hundreds of thousands of law-abiding sportsmen and hunters. How does it affect them? Sportsmen and hunters are used to using their ammunition today, aren't they? In the same way, we regulate weapons warehouses. If you have a weapon, you have the right to have ammunition for it – to use it, to practice and to compete. In the same way, the proposal is built around weapons warehouses. If we have regulation of this, we can target criminals. Otherwise, we can't do it. I still do not understand why the Moderates choose to turn a deaf ear and say no to the police's proposal, which could already this summer have an impact on the police's work against gang criminals and shootings in Sweden. I will end by asking a question: how does this make it difficult for hunters and sportsmen when you get to have how many magazines you want in the same way that you have ammunition for your rifle?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-501	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the questions, so that we can possibly get answers from the Minister. Why have we not listened to the consultation bodies, which have almost unanimously said no to the proposal? Why do the police only have numbers on the secure warehouses and not on any returned warehouses? When will the proposal to make it easier for the country's hunters and sportsmen in accordance with the decision we have taken on an announcement regarding arms legislation? Who will be affected? Yeah, everybody. I'm going to suffer. Many hunters and sportsmen today have magazines for weapons they have had in the past. They will be required to apply for a licence to do so. The magazines of hunters, shooters, and collectors may bring in 100,000 to 200,000 applications to the police. You will be burdening the Swedish police with this. Today, they do not even have time to process licences for hunters and shooters, but you intend to evict lots of applications over them for this to become legal. With your legislation, my magazine becomes a weapon that I have sold illegally, and I become a criminal. It is a concrete example of how your policy hits ordinary hunters and shooters in the country. What you do to regulate weapons warehouses will mean more work for the country's hunters, sportsmen and collectors. In addition, the police have to follow up on the regulations. In some way, the regulatory framework must be followed up. Is it okay to buy this? I'm talking to a lot of hunters and cops. Policemen have said exactly the opposite of what the Minister says here. They say that this is not a problem for them. They're picking up weapons warehouses. They search the house of these people to pick up weapons. They're picking up keys. They pick everything from the gang criminals. I think the minister needs to talk to more cops who actually work out on the street. I've got it black and white here. The police have today picked up nearly 1,000 magazines. Today we have legislation that allows these people to be removed from the warehouses, but we have not made it criminal to own magazines. That's the big difference. The minister wants to make it criminal to own magazines. That's what's going to be the trouble. Then we must have a control apparatus, application documents and the whole procedure, which will burden the police, hunters and shooters in an unreasonable way. Furthermore, Madam President, in a previous debate Morgan Johansson has stated that it would not introduce this and go beyond what the directive requires. There would be no regulation of weapons warehouses. It is strange that this is being done at this stage, despite the fact that all the referrals have said no. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister think that the whole of Jaktsverige, the hunting organisations, the arms organisations, the shooting organisations and the other bodies in this context are wrong when they say they do not want this regulation? Does the Minister still believe that this will not impose any kind of pressure on the police? Today it is not possible to deliver licenses on time. You have 15,000 silencer licenses to deal with. Only that part could the minister have removed from their mission. Instead, those resources could have been used to hunt gang criminals. But nothing is still happening to make it easier for the country's legal hunters and sportsmen. Instead, an attempt is being made to add another charge and a new control option. Although the Swedish Parliament is against it and despite the fact that the consultation bodies are against it and despite the fact that the Swedish Law Council is against it, the government continues to work on this. Put this in the trash!
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-510	Madam President, I would like I am seriously concerned if the Moderates do not see what is happening in Sweden right now. We have a different situation today than just five to ten years ago. Gang criminals shoot in a way we're not used to. We have to do everything we can to stop it. The police come to us with a proposal – in two rounds they have written to the government – and say that this could have a clear effect on their work against gang criminals in Sweden. Then we are introducing a regulation that is equivalent to the regulation that applies to ammunition, which all sportsmen and hunters are used to dealing with. It's nothing strange at all. We'll make it the same thing for weapons warehouses as for ammunition. If you have weapons warehouses for your guns at home, you don't have to apply – you don't have to do anything. But I am honest in this Chamber and say: Collectors and museums must apply and have the museum objects approved, for example. But we may have to accept that in a society where the police need new tools to put gang criminals in prison. That's the whole point of criminalising possession of weapons warehouses for those who don't have a license. It will then be punishable. It could be punishable as early as this summer. When the head of the police region in Malmö – he has changed his position now and is operational director of Rimfrost in the South Region – says that he will be disappointed if the parties do not make progress on the issue as this would give a new opportunity for the police to work against the gang criminals in Malmö, I think we have a duty to listen. I am a little surprised because I have read an article about the Moderates on this issue. I understand that the Moderates are open to regulating the weapons warehouse, provided that together we agree that we should not make it more difficult for sportsmen and hunters. I understand that this is how to interpret the article, Sten Bergheden: that you are open to it. But maybe it's all wrong. Sten Bergheden probably knows better than I know what the Moderates' opinion is, but at least I read the article that way, like you opened up to this because we have big problems with gang crime. I want a constructive discussion. The proposal put forward by the Moderates in this part has about the same effect for hunters and sportsmen, but the problem is that it does not really meet European law. There's a risk of being stopped there. The fact that we are introducing legislation that violates EU law is not a good thing. But I would like to have a constructive discussion on how to move forward, because I believe that we in Parliament have a duty to give the police the tools they need in the fight against gang crime and shootings. I also note that there is incredibly strong support among the Swedish people to give the police new methods. I saw an opinion poll that went much further. It was about registering all weapons warehouses in Sweden, which would be totally unreasonable, because many people who already have weapons licenses have the right today to have any number of weapons warehouses with new legislation. 80% of the Swedish people say that it would be reasonable to register this. Because they want to put an end to the shootings. Would it not be better to agree to give the police the tools they need and to make it clear that this legislation works in exactly the same way as in the case of ammunition, which sportsmen and hunters can handle? Not all referrals were particularly critical. In particular, the Law Council had a technical idea of how to define a thing. We have written that in, so we have handled the Swedish Law Council's full comments in this part. That is why the proposal looks like it does. But it becomes very clear: if you Moderates say no to the police's request in this part, you also bear a responsibility for the situation we have.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-519	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say quite clearly that the European directive does not require regulation of weapons warehouses. A hunter who needs an additional magazine for a weapon normally used for hunting for his training or sporting practice must seek permission for the new purpose. I will need to apply for permission for my magazine that I have lying at home, which belongs to an older weapon that I used to have. Surely the Minister and the government should have looked through this? How many magazines do we have out there that will cause both hunters and shooters to suffer? I'm thinking about the workload of the police. The government says this won't hit the police. They will receive lots of applications should this go through, which it will not do. They will receive perhaps 100 000 – 200 000 applications, and yet it is said that this will not burden the police in any way. Use those resources to hunt the criminals out there, and put them in prison instead of running and chasing hunters and sportsmen around the country! The police will have to increase their controls, there will be processing of permits, waiting times, increased red tape for the country's hunters and sportsmen and increased costs. There is also a lack of a clear definition of what a magazine is. Ultimately, it will be decided in court, because neither the government nor the Minister knows where it will land. The Council was doubtful about the proposal. They're just talking about definition problems. The EU was also doubtful about this, as there were problems with the definition of magazines. The Minister would have known if he had read all the documents on the matter. Madam President, I would like We do not need to regulate magazines, and we will vote against this. We need better control at our borders to stop the introduction of illegal weapons. We also need clearer information to the police that we already have the right to dispose of objects that can be used in criminal cases, such as warehouses. We need more cops, and with the Moderates' proposal for gang crime...
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-525	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden comes with misleading information in this debate. After all, the EU directive is about regulating the large arms warehouses. It has to be done. It's not voluntary. It is a directive that must be implemented in all EU Member States. Finland has done so. Denmark has done so. Sweden is not getting away with this. It is not true that the EU directive does not talk about regulating magazines. True, there is no formal definition in the legal text. There is no formal definition in the EU directive that we need to implement. There is no definition of a knife in the Swedish knife law either, but it is still used to frame those who use a knife for criminal purposes. There was no point in the Council's view that it should be defined in the legislation. We would write about it, and we did. Then if it's a weapons warehouse that can be used as a weapons warehouse, then it's a weapons warehouse. It's not harder than that. To return to the basic question: the police have asked us for clarification of the legislation in two instalments so that the gang criminals can actually be reached. We must try to give them answers to this, and then we should move forward together. We have designed the legislation so that we handle weapons warehouses in the same way as we handle ammunition. Sportsmen and hunters are fully familiar with how to use ammo, so that's not a problem. If you have weapons storage – ammunition – you have the right to hunt, train, compete and practice. You can have as many magazines as you want. If, on the other hand, you have a collector's item – something quite different, such as a machine gun – and you have a magazine for it, it is clear that you need a permit. Then you have to apply for it. This is quite reasonable in Sweden today.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-531	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård has asked me how the government sees the need to deepen and broaden the knowledge of public nurses. Gudrun Brunegård has also asked me what needs the government sees in changing today's specialist courses for nurses. Gudrun Brunegård has also asked me when a bill on future specialist training for nurses can be expected. I agree with the interpeller that the provision of skills is essential for healthcare to be able to fulfil its mission. Strengthening health care staffing is therefore a priority for the government. To ensure as much as possible a good supply of skills, both attractive health education and training are required and those who are trained also choose to work in health care. In the summer of 2017, the Government commissioned a special investigator to review the specialist nursing training. The investigator also had the task of reviewing issues relating to certain other health training courses. The study submitted its report in November 2018. The report has been referred and is currently being prepared in the Government Office. An important starting point for healthcare is that employees, including nurses and specialist nurses, have the skills needed to carry out and develop high-quality care. In the budget proposal for 2020, the Government proposed that close to SEK 3 billion should be set aside in order for the regions and municipalities to continue to carry out various actions in support of skills development and supply in healthcare. The need for specialist nurses in healthcare is high and is expected to increase in the future. It is therefore important that more nurses continue to train as specialist nurses. Within the framework of the initiative, the Government therefore proposed in the budget proposal for 2020 that SEK 500 million be set aside in 2020 – 2022 in order, among other things, to stimulate nurses to further train as specialist nurses in areas where national needs are high. In order to increase attractiveness and to enable development and career opportunities, an investment in career services is also required. The investment is equivalent to SEK 100 million annually from 2020. In order to address the challenges of the supply of skills in healthcare, such as a shortage of trained staff, effective cooperation between regions, municipalities and higher education institutions and dialogue with other actors is required. As of 1 January 2020, the Government has established a National Council for Health Care Competences, which will, among other things, identify, coordinate and streamline the provision of competence for healthcare personnel. The aim of the Council is to strengthen and formalise cooperation on skills provision in health care. I look forward to seeing the work of the Council and expect the work to have a positive impact on the supply of skills in health care.
i-KEqqU9qpx2Goet1e5JEP21	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Matilda Ernkrans! Staff is the most important resource in healthcare. Without competent nurses, midwives, X-ray nurses and biomedical analysts, care stays. That is exactly what we are seeing around our country today. Operations cancelled. Care departments are closed to lack of nurses, especially in areas where specialist training is required, such as childbirth, intensive care, anaesthesia, surgery and X-rays. There are people missing to put up on the schedule lines to manage to care for patients around the clock, all year round. In my previous life as an opposition council in Region Kalmar County, the supply of skills was one of the most important issues to which I devoted a great deal of time and energy. It is only to be noted that the region does not succeed in being a sufficiently attractive employer. Too many nurses and midwives choose another employer. When you talk to the nurses themselves about why they stop or why they are considering quitting, many refer to tough working hours, heavy workload, poor career paths and of course a salary that is not in parity with the length of education and the responsible and demanding work you have. The issue of specialist training for nurses is important from several points of view. The possibility of further training is one of the career paths that exist in the profession and thus helps to create attractiveness in the profession. It is also of the utmost importance to emphasise the research-related relationship that exists between the competence of the employees and the patient's ability to survive. In England, it has been noted that the more nurses there are in one department, the better the patients survive. Therefore, many were deeply disturbed by the inquiry into future specialist training. At this time when new and larger challenges and major changes exist in healthcare, the investigation proposes what both the profession and the former SKL, the current SKR, were seen as worsening. The academic level is proposed to be a pure professional degree, which would mean that a Swedish nurse's degree would not be of the same academic standard as in the rest of the EU, where a bachelor's or master's degree is required. The number of specialist training courses is proposed to be reduced to three. Otherwise, responsibility is transferred to the higher education institutions. It does not directly increase the attractiveness of the nursing profession if the ability to deepen your professional knowledge and academic competence is watered down and replaced by internal trainings without any degree that allows you to move forward in your career. While everyone is talking about close care today, more and more severely ill patients are being cared for at home or in municipal retirement homes and mental illness among children and young people is growing, the investigator proposes that specialist education in primary care and care of the elderly, psychiatric care and pupil health care be removed. Instead, state regulation is needed to ensure that nurses' education is equivalent throughout the country and that they maintain an academic level equivalent to that of other countries. Healthcare is a vital function of society in the deepest sense of the word. Training and specialist training must not be wasted. I do not understand that I have received an answer when a proposal is turned a.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-545	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that it is important that we continue to train nurses and that there is a good opportunity for further training of specialist nurses. These programmes must definitely maintain a high academic level. It is for this reason that the government has made historically great investments in health care. There are 13 billion in increased efforts, including to make it possible to secure the number of employees in healthcare, improve working conditions and short-term care queues. We have provided welfare billions, 5 billion annually, and only yesterday the Prime Minister announced that we need to add additional welfare billions to municipalities and regions. We have invested in new educational opportunities for nurses, specialist nurses and midwives. We have expanded educational opportunities at our universities and colleges all over the country. In 2019 alone, we added 400 million that can be used to enable nurses to take a specialist nursing training course with retained pay, which is a way to attract and provide better opportunities for those who want to continue further training. We continue to make these efforts. This is 100 million in terms of career services to increase attractiveness. This is indeed a crucial element in ensuring that we continue to have good health care throughout the country. The reason why we are still preparing the question of specialist nursing training, which Gudrun Brunegård is certainly well aware of, is that the referrals that have come in after the investigation had been referred are different. They are not easily understood as to how it is most reasonable to take the matter forward. For this reason, the matter needs to be further prepared within the Government Office, and we need more time to simply assess how and whether we are going to move forward. It would also be interesting when Gudrun Brunegård now raises the issue of hearing how Christian Democrats view the inquiry on specialist nurses. What is your information on how to take this investigation and the suggestions that are here further? It is interesting, and may be a good idea, that Gudrun Brunegård takes the opportunity to describe a little how Christian Democrats view the fact that you are still part of a right-wing conservative bloc that when you had the chance to set a budget chose to take the largest budget line to reduce taxes by about 20 billion. How can this improve the work situation in the everyday life of health care professionals and nurses?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-551	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for having the opportunity to discuss the issue! It's incredibly important. In the speech by the Government, I received an indirect answer to the question I did not have time to ask earlier about how the government views the referrals that have come into the investigation. I was a member of SKL's primary care and elderly care program myself. We were involved in designing the answer that came from the heavy authority with all the municipalities and regions of Sweden – as it is said today. We were in complete agreement – and so does my party – that the model of specialist training available today is considerably better than the proposal contained in the investigation. We'd rather you keep working on what's here today. It is good that the government has increased by another 100 million to the 400 million that the M-KD budget gave to more training places last year. There we are in complete agreement. It is a proposal that we also support. Today's interpellation is about what specialist training should look like in the future. Now the Government asked a question about how we view how our budget affects nurses' willingness to work in health care. It is almost laughable that a Social Democratic minister should put that question to a Christian Democrat when the Social Democratic-led government has just carried out a tax cut that favours ministers and members of parliament. We will have reduced taxes when we receive wages in January. But a nurse doesn't get a penny in tax cuts. It's the government's decision. We would much rather have put these tax cuts in the direction of improvements. We also spend more money on investments in welfare than the government does. Turn the mirror towards the government's own policy. The removal of the military tax that you have now carried out does not benefit nurses, but benefits the most well-paid in our society. That money we would rather have invested in improving care and improving for nurses, nurses and carers – if they exist, they start to show up here and there. They are needed to relieve the trained staff so that they can focus on the job. There is one more aspect. The billions put in by the government do not help a jota as long as there are no staff who want to work in healthcare. This is why targeted efforts are so important to improve the attractiveness of health professions. There, specialist training is important. In my last 15 seconds, I would like to ask the following question: can the Government see any kind of future picture in the investigation presented in relation to the current system?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-557	Madam President, I would like It is the Social Democrats' most important issue to put welfare first and prioritise money for health care, school, preschool and care for the elderly. It was also our most important question when we put party egoism aside, decided that this country needs a government and found the larger constellation in the form of social democrats, environmentalists, center parties and liberals. We could get a government in place that takes responsibility for Sweden and was able to present a reform agenda that Sweden and the Swedes feel good about and that we can build a stronger society around. I'm proud of that. What I would be a little worried about if I were a Christian Democrat is that the Christian Democrats, when you get the chance, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are making major tax cuts of 20 billion. That is the largest budget line. This is done because you think it is the most important issue. At the same time, you in the Christian Democrats would have liked to have included the Liberals in your cooperation, as Gudrun Brunegård is very well aware. You know, as we know, that the issue of removing the defence tax was the most important issue of the Liberals. There is even black and white that you were prepared to offer the Liberals the removal of the defense tax if they chose to cooperate with you. When it comes to trying to have some sort of competition with social democrats about which party stands up first and foremost for money for our welfare, I think the Christian Democrats have a fairly long uphill. This is also about the fact that we Social Democrats, and not least the government, know that we need to improve the work situation in healthcare. We must ensure that there are better working conditions. The way to do this is to take responsibility together and ensure that there are enough resources to improve the situation and that we also ensure that we take responsibility around the regions to use this money wisely. Now that I have Gudrun Brunegård here, which shows this commitment to nurses and their everyday lives, it would be interesting if she could say something about whether she, like me and many others, has followed the crisis in Stockholm County Council, where the Christian Democrats are in charge. Although it is overcrowded in the emergency room, even though patients are in the corridor and even though doctors warn people not to get sick, the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and other bourgeois parties, choose to dismiss doctors and nurses. What does Gudrun Brunegård think about this? It would be interesting to hear a Christian Democrat talk about that. As far as education is concerned, of course, we should ensure that we have really good education in Sweden, both in terms of training as a nurse and in terms of further education for nurses. This government – and my party – has chosen to put in more money for this, including by ensuring that more people have the opportunity to further train themselves as a specialist nurse while maintaining their pay. It's a priority. There are also other elements, as I mentioned, in terms of career services and new welfare billions to do this wisely and well. Our ambition is that we should have good academic education that more people have the opportunity to apply for and that strengthens Swedish healthcare. That's how we plan on taking on the future.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-566	Madam President, I would like I am not going to go into a long tax debate, but I think most of those who look at this on the web or afterwards can pick up the tables and see which tax cuts are greatest. I think the military tax cut will cut most of it. The tax cuts that the Christian Democrats have put in our budget are aimed at those who have the most deprived. We have a joint tax reduction in which pensioners get a fully restored tax level and where we work to make things a little better for those who are the most deprived. I think I can stand for that 100%. The Government takes Stockholm as an example, which is not unusual. Stockholm is a large county council with large hospitals and large staff volumes. But I would like to compare with Region Kalmar County, which has been under social democratic control and which has been so for about 16 years. There they go the other way. They see that they can't manage to man the wards, because their nurses don't want to work with them anymore. Then they close at that end. It would not surprise me if many of the nurses who previously worked in Region Kalmar County work as rent nurses and perhaps have worked in Stockholm, for example. I know quite a few such examples. No matter from what perspective you see this, it is important that we build you a good direction for our staff, so that the staff want to work in healthcare.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-571	Madam President, I would like After all, no party in the Swedish parliament gets through all its politics alone. All parties need to cooperate. The Social Democratic Party has chosen to cooperate with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals in the middle of Swedish politics. We have a lot in common, and with this we can do good for Sweden with a strong reform agenda. The Christian Democrats have chosen to cooperate with the Moderates and have no objection whatsoever to the active support of the Nationalist and populist Party of Sweden Democrats. This is the difference – you have to choose which you trust the most. How the government chooses to handle the specialist nursing investigation is one thing, but no one should hesitate that the government and the Social Democratic Party take the fight every day so that we can give care as needed and not after wallet. Those in greatest need should be allowed to see a doctor and have an operation or treatment. They're going first. It is not that one should get ahead of the queue because one has an expensive private health insurance. It should be care as needed, and it should be for the benefit of all in Sweden. This is what the Social Democrats take the fight every day – so that we can hire more people in health care, improve working conditions, take advantage of the skills and ensure that we continue to train nurses and specialist nurses throughout the country. Because that is the case: we actually need to ensure that we have higher education throughout our country and in all our regions. This is particularly important when it comes to nursing and specialist nursing training. Here it is recruited regionally, and it also stays in the region. We take responsibility for building a stronger society where people can feel secure. So we keep away the divisive care ideas of right-wing conservatism and build a stronger society.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-576	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård has asked me three questions about the craft industry in Sweden. The first question is whether the state provides support for other craft educations in the country, corresponding to Riksglasskolan in Nybro, which has a strong cultural history link. Furthermore, Gudrun Brunegård asks me how I view the value of maintaining handicraft traditions in professions with few active practitioners. Finally, she asks me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that the craft professions as glassworkers will continue to exist in the future. Let me try to answer these questions as much as I can on the basis of my responsibility as Minister of Culture. I share Gudrun Brunegård's concern for the future of the craft that has cultural historical value and risks disappearing. Domestic crafts has long been challenged by industrial production and cheap imports. It is important that artistic, cultural and cultural heritage traditions in crafts can be preserved and protected. I also believe that the government is taking a great responsibility for the unique knowledge that has been abandoned and traded in various crafts occupations with cultural historical links so that they can be maintained and further developed. Let me give you a few examples: The training system offers various opportunities to train for craft professions. The upper secondary school's craft program includes training courses leading towards professions such as gold or silversmiths, saddlemakers, watchmakers, glass blowers and wallpaper makers. For smaller craft occupations, principals can apply to the National School Administration or the State School Inspection to organise so-called national recruitment education, which allows for larger student backgrounds and better opportunities to conduct a certain education. Riksrekrytande utbildningar inom small craft professions are among other things for education to goldsmiths, glass blowers and boat builders. Also at the post-secondary level there is the opportunity to train in craft occupations with cultural historical links. In addition to the broad training programmes that will meet the needs of working life, there are also courses in narrow professional areas such as the modist, gilder, decor painters and musical instrument makers. These training courses aim to maintain professional skills in professions where there are very few practitioners, although there is no obvious labour market need. The University of Applied Sciences Agency also administers state aid for art and cultural education, where some of the courses aim to preserve or develop cultural heritage. In the form of education there are training courses in weaving, textile crafts, ceramic design, handicraft and handicraft techniques, and more. The Government annually allocates more than SEK 260 million in the grant Grants to cultural environmental care for, among other things, reconstruction and care of cultural history valuable buildings. The grant may be paid for culturally-historically motivated building work and for the participation of experts in the investigation, design and execution of the work. This means that trained craftsmen should be used in work and care. It is also a way for the government to promote the survival of a wide range of crafts. I would also like to mention the new policy on architecture, form and design that we call Gestaltad living environment. It emphasises that qualities in design and performance are important for people's quality of life and in a way that cannot always be measured in economic terms. Gestaltning is both thought and execution, design and material impact. Therefore, driving quality in the design of the new one that is being built will provide improved conditions for the craft as well. I believe that the new policy on the design of living environment will contribute to and open up to an even greater demand for solid crafts of many different kinds. In the light of what I have just said, I would like to say that the government, through a large number of efforts, shows a high level of awareness of the importance of crafts and also takes a great responsibility to preserve, strengthen and contribute to the development of craft for the future.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-586	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On my desk here at the Riksdag, I have a glass apple from Pukeberg's glassworks in Nybro – it is on my table here in the Chamber now. In art history, the apple symbolises the knowledge, which is appropriate right now in my role in the Education Committee, but also in view of the fact that the Riksglasskolan, which I am starting from in the interpellation, is located in Pukeberg's glassworks. Swedish glass is world famous and not only famous in Sweden. Also on the other side of the Atlantic there are special shops with Swedish glass. Many Americans know the glass kingdom and can name several of the famous brands, which often have names after the place in Småland where the glassworks is located or low – many are unfortunately closed. Many have probably seen, at least on TV, the red-hot glass lump at the end of the glass blower's pole and fascinated by how a glass lump that can look the same at first can be processed into a smudged drinking glass on foot but also into a heavy letterpress, a elegant sculpture or perhaps a beautiful flower to put on the table as decoration. Many people who visit a glass mill also have the opportunity to test bladder. Then you realize that it is not easy to combine the right force in the blowout with at the same time rotate the rod so that the object does not go wrong. When you have this little insight you understand why Swedish glass is so expensive. It's a craft. It takes time to learn and to perform each individual part. When I visited Riksglasskolan there was a student who went on almost all day with a single drinking glass – it takes time. The Riksglasskolan in Nybro is the only one of its kind throughout the Nordic region that provides a three-year basic education in glass work. At the school, both upper secondary school pupils and polytechnic students and also a part of commissioned education, including international students. In this way they can keep volumes at a reasonable level. But each place of study costs more than twice as much as a place on a theoretical program. Then, as in all trades and crafts, when you have completed vocational training, you are still not fully qualified, but are allowed to go as an apprentice for a few more years. The head of Riksglasskolan is Nybro kommun. It is not entirely straightforward, because it means that the school is constantly being questioned when the municipality has to review its finances and the education administration has to make its savings. The government contribution you receive is a welcome addition. But it has been at exactly the same level for about 20 years, and much of the original value has been eaten up by inflation in the meantime. I understand from the Government's reply that there are other narrow crafts trainings in the same situation. However, I wonder if there is any reason to examine what future support for this type of narrow craft training would have to look like in order to give them long-term viability.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-593	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would really like to thank the Member of Parliament, Mr Brunegård, for the interpellation and, therefore, for paying attention to the narrow craft professions and their importance and value in our society today. It's important to me as Minister of Culture. Although I am not the minister responsible for education, this is part of the ecosystem or the infrastructure for these craft professions. Gudrun Brunegård here mentions glasswind art, and it is really an art. It is both an art and a craft and thus fulfills many different functions in our society. It is an interest for society and for the government to preserve the unique, artistic, cultural and professional know-how for the future. Gudrun Brunegård asks if there is a need for a major review of the education system linked to these courses. That is a question that should be put to the Minister for Education. This is not a question to which I, as Minister of Culture, can answer. We have the order that municipalities are usually the principals of this type of education. The National Agency for Higher Education awards a flat-rate grant and support for the implementation of the courses. I think the Member of Parliament mentioned in his interpellation that it is the Culture Council that awards the flat-rate grant. It's not, it's the National Agency for Higher Education. I double-checked this. We have a variety of crafts that all in different ways deserve the support of society. What I can and want to do, and as I do as Minister of Culture, is to try in various ways, as I also highlighted in my reply, to ensure that we have a market for this professional knowledge. We have a broad and ambitious work to strengthen the conditions for artists and cultural creators in Sweden. It is of course a niche and important branch. We have the new policy for the design of the living environment, which I mentioned, where we will develop the competence of clients, not least in public procurement, so that they set quality requirements and act exemplaryly in terms of sustainability and design. It is something that I really believe will benefit even the narrow arts. Public procurement amounted to a total of SEK 700 billion in 2017, according to the figure I have. It is clear that if local, national and regional policies are able to impose such quality requirements, it will contribute in the long term to the strengthening of the craft sector. Now we are entering a society where the biggest challenge of our time is to address the climate issue and different types of sustainability issues. This increases interest in re-use and traditional craft techniques. From this point of view, I think it is extremely fundamental that we maintain the artisan skills and craftsmanship, of which the Riksglasskolan in Nybro is an excellent example. I have not been there myself, but I am undoubtedly inspired when I get Gudrun Brunegård's description.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-599	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Amanda Lind! I am pleased when the Government talks about craft professions as part of our cultural heritage, because they really are. They're very deep-rooted. It is true that glass blower art came to Småland in the 1800s, I think, so the tradition is not so long, but it is deep. Glass blowery is also available in Östergötland and Central Sweden. I learned something interesting when I was visiting. Many of the experienced glass workers who were present when the large, renowned glassworks were closed down have started their own foundries and studios a bit everywhere in Sweden. There they work as self-employed workers and may have a single employee or take an apprentice whom they train. In this way they pass on knowledge, which is a positive thing. At the same time, Riksglasskolan is the place where you get your basic knowledge. I am a little surprised because I specifically asked that the information about getting the money from the Arts Council be double-checked. But if the Government says they're from the National Agency for Higher Education, I'll take it as a truth. Either way, it is a welcome contribution. As the Government mentions, there are other craft professions that are also important to preserve. I am thinking, among other things, of shoemaking, saddlery and the like. I myself live in Vimmerby, and for many years we had one of the country's boat building schools. I was chairman of the Education Board for a period of time, and we struggled with the question of how we could maintain this training. Nowadays there are not so much wooden boats, because most fast plastic boats are built. But the interior design of large plastic boats is made of wood, and this special knowledge is needed. The school had close and good cooperation with the local boat manufacturer. The students got internships there, and they were guaranteed jobs afterwards. Unfortunately, though, there were so few applicants that it was not justifiable to keep the school going, even if the industry appealed for us to do so. It was after my time that boat building training was discontinued. For a few years it was maintained as a university of applied sciences. But even that had to be stopped. It was a great sorrow in a district with this tradition. In the same way, there has been a collective grief in the Kingdom of Crystal when one foundry after another has been forced to close. That's why it's so important that Riksglasskolan is there, because it means that you maintain that knowledge and strengthen the self-image of that you are still a centre for glassworks work. There are certainly similar for other craft professions in other parts of the country. I thank the Minister for his commitment to the issues of the narrow but important craft professions and hope that we can continue to work on this from our various sides.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-608	Madam President, I would like I also double-checked where the grants came from, and nearly 800 training places in these narrow professions receive state grants through the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education. I will also say that the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education also administers the arts and culture programmes conducted under the regulation on support for arts and culture education and certain other education programmes. It may involve preparing for artistic higher education, providing vocational training in the artistic or cultural field or preserving and developing cultural heritage. It is therefore also important for my responsibilities as Minister of Culture that the education system works and that we can have these steps so that the interest in art, crafts, design or music is awakened in preschool and primary school when you have to try to use your hands. Ensuring that the veil remains as a subject in primary school is therefore also important. There is also the cultural school. There should also be the opportunity and conditions for those who want to specialise. It is important both for the individual to be able to create and professionalise and for Sweden to continue to be a strong cultural nation and an export nation for cultural and creative industries. This is a little bit in the heat. I think I hear it in the interpellant's comment about the Kingdom of Crystal and the pride of both tourism and export. I am therefore pleased that the government has an export and investment strategy that also identifies cultural and creative industries as something that we should continue to work with. Here is a strong and positive picture of Sweden, which many of these creative clusters contribute to. We have, among other things, the Kingdom of Crystal, the textile industry in Borås and the rest of Västra Götaland, several film industries around the country and various specific arts and crafts clusters that contribute to the overall picture. Many craftsmen in these narrow professions are self-employed with perhaps an employee. I would therefore like to emphasise that the government has a policy to facilitate small businesses. For example, there is growth support, which will lower the thresholds for one-man entrepreneurs to make their first job. All efforts by self- and small businesses are also important for these narrow craft professions. We must see it as a whole. We must see the narrow craft professions as important in our society. I believe and hope, as I said, that the interest will increase in line with the commitment to sustainable development and materials. We politicians must also do what we can by making demands in public procurement and by raising the issue now, talking about it and stimulating debate and commitment.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-616	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the Minister's commitment to this issue. We have to continue to work from different directions for continued growth in these narrow craft professions. Speaking of the sidetrack on which the Government was concerned, both present and former governments have invested particularly in certain parts of the tourism industry, and now the Kingdom of Crystal is on the agenda. But there are also other parts of the cultural industries, such as Astrid Lindgren's World in Vimmerby, where we work a lot with the tourism industry. There are therefore many connections and a great value of continuing to develop this type of tourist destination in the country. It's not just in the big cities there are interesting things. My husband's American relatives talk about visiting us because we live near the Kingdom of Crystal. So they know that there on the other side of the Atlantic without us having put it on the agenda. So there really is growth power here. But then it is also important that there are those who work with the profession and can show it off. It is fun to see how the creativity of the students at Riksglasskolan is awakened when they begin to get a sense of material and form and how they then experiment and find new forms and ways of expression. So welcome there!
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-621	Madam President, I would like I thank Gudrun Brunegård for the questions she has asked me. Gudrun Brunegård and I, like previous representatives of various governments and parties in opposition, obviously share concerns about how culturally important crafts professions can survive. Politics can always do more, but I also believe that the government has a policy in many respects well-considered which will ensure the development and viability of many craft professions in the future. However, we will certainly always have to continue to do more in many different ways. Finally, I thank you for the invitation to the Swedish School of Glass. Let's see if I can visit it in the future.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-624	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I believe that public service broadcasters should report party sympathies or party affiliations and, if so, what I intend to do to ensure that they are complied with. The public service companies, i.e. Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Swedish Educational Radio, operate independently in relation to both the state and other economic and political spheres of power in society. The activities are regulated at an overall level through multi-annual broadcasting permits and medium-term conditions decided by the Government in accordance with the framework and direction laid down here in the Riksdag. In December 2019, the Government decided on new broadcasting permits and average conditions for the public service companies. These decisions follow from the proposals in the bill A modern public service close to the audience – conditions 2020 – 2025( 2018/ 19:136), which was discussed and decided here in the Riksdag during the autumn. According to the broadcasting permits, the activities of the programme must be carried out objectively and impartially. Anyone who considers that one of the public service broadcasters has breached these conditions may notify the Swedish Radio and Television Audit Board of the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority. It is the Board which subsequently examines whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to broadcasting. The independence of public service providers is crucial for public confidence. As a minister, I cannot and should not have views on the way in which companies conduct their publicist activities.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-629	Madam President, I would like On 29 November 2018, Mirjam Katzin participated in a panel discussion at SVT Forum. She was presented there as a doctoral student at Lund University. However, SVT forgot to mention that she is also a politician for the Left Party. On 18 November 2018, SVT reported about Bim Eriksson who protested against cultural policy in Sölvesborg municipality. SVT forgot to mention that she is also on SSU's federal board. On 3 November 2018, Camila Salazar Atias participated in an element of SVT's Agenda. SVT presented her as a criminologist but forgot to mention that she is also on the Social Democrats' Riksdag list. On October 31, 2018, Tito Rojas participated in SVT's Live Opinion Program. There he was introduced as a tram driver. SVT forgot to mention that he is also active in the Communist Party in Gothenburg. Prior to the party leader debate on 16 October 2018, SVT interviewed randomly selected people on the street. SVT forgot to mention that the randomly selected person Emilius Podena is active in the Youth League of the Social Democrats. On March 23, 2018, SVT reported from a manifestation in Skurup and interviewed a woman named Linda Wolski. SVT, however, forgot to mention that the randomly selected person is a politician for the Green Party. On 20 March SVT reported on the housing shortage. In an interview with the party political interest organization I want housing now Nike Halvardsson was interviewed, but SVT forgot to report that she is a politician for the Environmental Party. On 21 February, SVT's Opinion was sent. The programme conducted a debate on returning IS terrorists. Participating was the lawyer Mikael Westerlund. SVT, however, forgot to report that he had previously been on the board of Young Left and was chairman of Left students. On January 24, SVT reported about a group in Kalmar that started a petition to allow those who have been granted a residence permit for upper secondary school studies to have the same access to subsistence support as everyone else in the municipality. SVT, however, forgot to report that the initiator Jessica Rydell is also County Council for the Environmental Party in Kalmar. On January 21, Swedish Radio reported that costs for net doctors through private care apps are running. But the Swedish Radio forgot to report that the critical doctor Christoffer Bernsköld had previously served on the Party Board of the Social Democrats, been chairman of the Social Democrats in Östergötland and was regional councillor in the county council. On January 9, SVT conducted a man-on-street interview and presented a passerby man without a title. SVT, however, forgot to report that the man works for Social Democratic ABF, despite the fact that the interview was conducted just in front of the ABF building in Eskilstuna. On January 8, SVT's News asked who would become Sweden's next Prime Minister. SVT, however, forgot to report that the interviewer, who was named only by name, is also a leftist municipal politician in Jönköping. On 2 September 2018, SVT ran a man-on-gatan interview again. Robin Zachari, interviewed and titrated as a resident in the violently ravaged Bagarmossen, also happens to be the head of a left-wing site called Shiftet, former Alliance-free Sweden. However, SVT forgot to account for this. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Culture if she sees a pattern in this. It's a simple question: does she see a pattern?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-642	Madam President, I would like Public service providers broadcast about 170 000 hours of content each year. I do not think it would have mattered if we had stood here for three or ten more minutes and Mrs Aspling had listed even more examples collected by the Member of Parliament without more context than that. I could not have said, however, that this tells me that there is some sort of tendency. Public service providers broadcast about 170 000 hours of content each year. It is free for everyone, including the Member of Parliament, to report the programmes and elements that they do not believe live up to the public service mission. And let me be clear: Public service conducts its journalism objectively and impartially. This is very important. If you believe that the public service companies have violated any of the conditions that we here in the Swedish parliament and since the government has formulated in the decision in the broadcasting permits, you can and should report this to the Audit Board. Public service scrutiny and follow-up is very important, but as Minister of State and Minister of Culture, I should not interfere in the public service companies' publishing activities. I certainly will not stand here in the speaker's chair and review or add to the right individual publicist decisions. I note that public service broadcasters enjoy a very high level of public confidence, but of course they are sometimes made wrong even in public service. That will always be the case. Journalists, like other professions, are also people. Sometimes miscalculations are made. If any errors were never made, I would be worried, but the errors committed are not of the same nature. Individuals excluded over a great period of time and an enormous amount of material cannot be taken as revenue for any form of systematically biased political journalism or systematic miscalculation, as the Member of Parliament claims. I want to defend and develop the model of public service making its own decisions and that we politicians should stay arm-length away from them. We have the Audit Board, which is tasked with reviewing that public services both describe society objectively and neutrally, which is, of course, part of the public service mission, and conducts its publishing activities based on objectivity and impartiality. Politicians should not soak their noses in daily publicist activities.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-647	Madam President, I would like On March 15, 2018, the teacher Andreas Magnusson took part in the public opinion live. SVT forgot to report that the person is a columnist on the left hand magazine Paragraph. On 21 August 2017, SVT interviewed residents of Gullsång. An interviewer is critical of the rejection of an asylum seeker's application. But the interviewer is not just anyone but is in the municipal council for Feminist initiative, which SVT did not report. On March 2, 2017, SVT's Opinion was broadcast live. A person in the audience was maligned over profits in welfare. The person is Sandra Sandin Lindqvist. SVT, however, forgot to mention that she ran for the Left Party to the Swedish Parliament some year earlier. On February 4, 2017, Ekot's Saturday interview sent a discussion in which a professor of history evaluated the Left Party's settlement with the Party's history. The professor says that the Left Party has settled its dark history. However, Professor Kjell Östberg happens to be active in the Socialist Party. However, this detail chooses Swedish Radio to omit. In Agenda i SVT on 11 December 2016, Jan Guillou is invited to express himself on Russian information warfare. Guillou thinks the threat from Russia is excessive. SVT is setting him up as an expert. But he's not an expert in information warfare. On the contrary, he has a clear pro-Russian background with documented links to the KGB. Perhaps this should have been stated. On December 1, 2016, Report in SVT shows an element about a union strike notice in private care and care for the elderly. However, the interviewed assistant nurse happens to be a member of Kommunal's section board. This forgets SVT to report. The Agenda in SVT on 18 April 2016 discussed the criticism of Mehmet Kaplan and his relationship with representatives of various extreme Islamic and fascist movements. SVT presented one person, Mohamed Temsamani, as chairman of the United Islamic Associations in Sweden, FIFS. Temsmani argued that the criticism of Kaplan is Islamophobia and anti-Muslim. However, SVT forgets to report that Temsamani is active in the same party as Mehmet Kaplan. The question I asked in my previous speech was not whether I felt that the Council of State should soak its nose or whether she should intervene. The question is much simpler than that: Does the Government really see a pattern here?
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-656	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that, no matter how many examples the honourable Member highlights here in the speaker's chair, I trust more in the independent scrutiny and research carried out by public services. There we have the Audit Board, which over the last five years has decided between 1 000 and 1 300 cases per year for the public service broadcasters. Between 40 and 70 of the cases notified, companies have been convicted annually. In a further 9 to 15 cases, criticism has been levelled at companies. Of these precipitates, about 10 precipitates per year have been a lack of impartiality in a little different directions. In other cases, the investigation has been terminated, or the undertakings have been cleared. These figures apply to SR, SVT and UR together. Although the Member of Parliament may not trust the Audit Board, there is also independent research that has been carried out. For example, the University of Gothenburg has looked at how the reporting linked to the election movements has fallen out and whether there has been some bias in either political direction. And the left-wing slope highlighted by the Member of Parliament has therefore not been able to find support in research. On the contrary, it has been seen that it looks a little different in different election movements. Some parties may have been disadvantaged or favoured by size and location in the debate. But it was noted that the alliance parties in the previous electoral movement received more positive attention in relation to the other parties. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning democracy presupposes that we have a free and independent scrutiny press in Sweden. In Sweden we have a model with a strong public service on the one hand and strong commercial media on the other. This is a model of success. The independence of the media is absolutely crucial. Then I think that we should remain too good to criticise or review public service providers' decisions here in the speaker's chair. We have the Audit Board, which has an important role to play in this. As I said in my previous speech, the error can of course be committed. I believe that a review of the activities of public service broadcasters is important. I was reached today by the information that the Swedish National Audit Office intends to review the Board's activities during the past years to make an assessment if the Audit Board fulfils its mandate. I think that's good. It is good to look at whether the Audit Board is carrying out a serious review of the notifications that are received. I hope that Mrs Aspling will also be able to support this.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-661	Madam President, I would like I can only note that the Government is completely ducking for my question. I didn't ask any questions about the Audit Board. I didn't ask you if errors can sometimes be committed. I did not ask whether we should have a strong public service or not. All these are separate political issues. They may well be worth discussing. But that is not what I am here to talk about today. I am here to talk about a very simple question: Does the Minister of Culture see a pattern? It is interesting that the Minister for Culture has just mentioned a left-wing slope here. I didn't point to a left-wing slope. I have said nothing about a left-wing slope in this debate. It is the Minister of Culture himself who will find out. I wonder why the Minister for Culture has just mentioned a left-wing slope as a possible reason why I am standing here, even though I have not mentioned it. For it is quite obvious to every thinking person that there is a strong list to the left in public service. All the people who have spent ten minutes watching their news reports understand that this is the case. However, I support public service as an idea. I definitely think that Sweden is valiant to have a strong public service and a public service that enjoys public confidence. Unfortunately, it undermines public confidence by acting in this way. The Government also refers to errors being made at times. Yes, but wrongs are only committed in one direction. I have found no example that a person with party affiliation or party sympathies on the right would have been presented as the man on the street, as an expert or similar. I haven't seen it happen once. How, then, is it that all the errors are directed in one direction? It is something that the scientists who are digging into this might want to take a look at.
i-313aa4e9fff1a227-666	Madam President, I would like Let me quote the interpellation that I received from Member of Parliament Ludvig Aspling. He writes, "It is also telling that in all the cases that I have been able to discover, it has been about people on the left political side who have been given room to speak without party sympathies or belongings being accounted for." ..................................................... What the honourable Member says about it being a slope only in one direction is not true. The findings of the Board of Auditors do not point to this. Independent research does not point to this. I'll answer Ludvig Aspling's question. As Minister of State, what should I comment on his reading of analyses and the collection of examples from public service broadcasters over 100 000 hours of broadcast material on three different broadcasters? No, that does not mean anything to me, and I am too good to comment on the individual publicist decisions taken by the public service companies. It will be handled by the Audit Board. I assume that the Member of Parliament has sent their examples to the Audit Board, so that they can be assessed in the usual order.
