i-19f84d0edd7fc475-10	Good day, Mr President. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked the Minister for Labour whether the Minister intends to review the financial support given to the cultural sector or to provide new targeted support so that it also covers this sector and whether the Minister considers it problematic that an important industry in the experience industry is at risk of disappearing. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Sweden is still in a serious situation following the spread of the new coronavirus. Many industries, including the experience industry involving light and sound production, have been hit economically very hard as a result of the new virus. The main focus of the government has been to prevent the spread of infection and to save people's lives. In Sweden, as in the rest of the world, the pandemic, and the measures to combat it, have a major impact on the economy. The regulation prohibiting public gatherings and public events has been, and still is, an important tool in the fight against covid. The limit of 50 participants is currently fixed as a general rule, but the government has referred two proposals to prepare for relaxation in the prohibition regulation. The Public Health Agency will also be tasked with updating existing guidelines so that arrangements can be implemented in a safe manner. The work to help companies in this difficult situation is ongoing and the government has taken a series of measures aimed at mitigating the impact on jobs and businesses in our country. A crisis package for culture of half a billion kronor was launched earlier this year. There is support for cultural organisers as well as for individual cultural creators and freelancers and other actors in the field of culture. In addition, the government has developed support for museums, performing arts institutions and regional culture. Overall, around 1 billion have been allocated for crisis support to culture. In the context of the budget negotiations on 21 August 2020, the government parties presented a proposal for a further package of support for culture. It is about 1.5 billion extra to the culture for 2020. The money is intended to be used both to alleviate the acute crisis and to contribute to the recovery of culture. In addition to the emergency packages that have been decided, cultural actors can benefit from the government's general support for business and entrepreneurship. In addition, the contributing actors in the cultural field have adapted their regular support to the current situation. The Government conducts a continuous dialogue with stakeholders and industries in the field of business and culture on how the situation develops.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-17	Mr President, I would like to I hope that Mr President and the Minister for Economic Affairs have had a good summer despite the strange times we are currently living in. I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. We were many who despite the pandemic and all the restrictions there had been looking forward to a summer with experiences and other events. Many companies working in the experience industry had seen an opportunity to make their companies continue to exist. Instead of taking action, the government took a vacation, and the rest of us got a summer without concerts, events, football matches, festivals or Almedalen. The list can be made as long as possible. Events had to be cancelled at shorter or longer notice. In Dagens Nyheter from today I read that one third of Sweden's artists – we are talking about 2 000 people – intend to close down their business or change jobs. This is a clear sign that we have an event industry in free fall. Common to all these events and events is that they depend on collaboration with companies working in the experience industry. These are companies which, because of all the restrictions that exist today, have lost all their income. My interpellation was indeed first put to the Minister for Labour with questions about how the government intends to take action, and the Minister for Economic Affairs answers it. I believe, however, that the Minister for Economic Affairs has unfortunately not understood my questions, since I see that he answers something like the answer I have received to the written question I have put to the Minister for Culture. An industry that in mid-March got its door closed and locked is among other things that for light and sound technicians. When the limit of how many people may meet was lowered from 500 to 50, their doors were completely walled again. On the written question I put to the Minister for Culture, I was given the answer that these companies can seek support from the Culture Council. But these entrepreneurs are not cultural workers. They cannot seek the support that the government has so greatly invested in maintaining culture. They're self-employed. An artist cannot stand on stage without stage builders, who are self-employed, not performing without technicians, who are self-employed, not on stage without sound and light techniques, who are self-employed, and so on. The list can be made long. Herein lies the problem. All these people often work in small specific businesses, and they are not cultural workers who are included in the Culture Council area in order to seek assistance. They're their own companies. These are small businesses, individual entrepreneurs and freelancers. They cannot take part in the halved self-contribution, as they have no income. They cannot lay off themselves, as they are small businesses or self-employed without employees. They are many small companies that are far from the government's targeted support package. How does the government intend to act for these small businesses?
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-26	Mr President, I would like to I think we all wish we were not in this situation. I do not believe that there is a single person in either our country or beyond our borders who would not wish to return to a normal everyday life with a normal summer when you can go to concerts, just as the honourable Member expresses. You have not been able to go to the theatre or to hang out freely with people in small or large groups. I think we all carry this feeling. Nevertheless, Mr President, it is only to be realised that reality does not look like that. In reality, we are still in the midst of a pandemic. We have been in our country since late winter and the beginning of spring. We have tried to deal with this pandemic on the basis of attempts to limit the spread of infection, to save human lives, to ensure that health care has the opportunity to deal with the enormous storm that we saw in the spring, not least. There have been heroic efforts. At the same time, we worked in parallel with this very quickly in a way that we have never ever done, either in Parliament or in the government, to develop measures to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. I say that we all realise that there will be effects, and that is not a positive effect. This has meant that we have produced nine amending budgets from March to June. These are measures that are still ongoing and have so far covered nearly 800 billion of taxpayers' money in loans, guarantees and direct aid. We are doing this because it is the right thing to do. It is important that we stick together in such a time in our society, in our Sweden. I have looked at a number of comments during the pandemic that many people find it tough and difficult but also appreciate much of this quick help. Mr President, I would like to We look forward to autumn and see that we are still in the midst of this pandemic. I get a little worried when I hear the Moderates wondering why we don't just let go. Don't take the risks lightly! They're still there. Pandemine's not gone. Covid-19 isn't gone. In countries where it was thought that it had defeated this enemy, as they call it, it is now coming back forcefully – hence the concern that I think we all have reason to feel for the autumn ahead. That's not where we're going. We shall continue to maintain the spread of the disease and protect human life. In parallel with this, we will of course also see how we can create the conditions to get the wheels running as far as possible. I have every respect for aid – there are a number of ongoing aid, and we certainly do not rule out the need for further adjustments and perhaps even new forms of aid. But it is also important to think about how we get the wheels going. At the end of the day, I think that everyone understands that almost hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money we make available will not be enough if this goes on for a long time. It is against this background, Mr President, that we, together with industries, actors and the business community, have taken the initiative to see if it is possible to find a system in which to operate, so that, for example, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm can go to a concert, without adding to the spread of infection. Such a proposal is subject to consultation. We are also engaged in a dialogue with other sectors to see if this can be done in parallel, so that we can try to limit the spread of infection and speed up the wheels as far as possible.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-33	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I thank the Minister for his reply. The government has done a lot. I'm the first to admit that. The Minister clearly points to everything that has happened in health care. I am the first to agree with this, as I myself have been active in health care throughout the spring and tried to limit the spread of infection. I absolutely cannot say that we are taking the risks of preventing the spread of the disease lightly. The problem in this industry, sound and light technologies in the experience industry, is very complicated. The Minister says that there will be relief in the autumn, so that we might be able to go to concerts. But this industry, such as light and sound technologies, has incredibly long lead times. It may take four to eight months to prepare a concert, a football match, an event or an arrangement. This means that the decisions made this spring will affect the industry all autumn and well into next year. Many in the industry have been advised to apply for unemployment benefit. But they are not by definition unemployed. They actually have a lot of work, but because of the circumstances, they can't do their jobs. Everyone who joined the unemployment fund this spring will receive only basic benefits, because you must have had a break in unemployment in order to receive an income-based unemployment benefit. This, of course, is causing problems for these companies. I am thinking about how the government intends to compensate all these unemployed people in the audio and light technology industry. They're advised to retrain. I talked to a man who worked his whole life with this kind of business. He said to me, "What do you want me to do?" I am 63 years old and have two years left until my pension. What am I going to retrain myself for? I spoke to a man who told me that his entire income depended on Almedalen. His entire annual income disappeared this year. There he stands – without the possibility of income. Nor does he have the opportunity to apply for grants, as he is not a cultural worker but has his own company that works against the cultural industry. Companies after companies go bankrupt, because there is no support for this industry to seek. Referring to the government spending money on the cultural industry and the cultural sector is good enough, but it does not help these companies; it is not cultural workers but their own companies that work together with the cultural sector. If nothing is done, we will find it difficult to retain competence in this area, which will have major consequences when we may eventually be able to return to more normal forms and organise larger events and events. As I said, state aid to the cultural sector does not cover this sector, but without aid the whole industry will disappear. We will be standing there without skills and companies in this area, and it will take a long time to build up a damaged industry. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is again: what do you intend to do?
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-40	Mr President, I would like to One of the finest things that we have reason to be proud of, in terms of the very difficult circumstances that we had in the spring, is that this Parliament and this government together took a number of measures and could gather together. I think this is very important. We got into a pandemic we haven't seen the husband of, at least not someone alive today. Perhaps it is someone who is really old and remembers the Spanish flu, but it is thankfully a long time ago. The fact that in the spring we quickly took a number of measures to limit the infection – but also, of course, to mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country – was a strength. Since then, Mr President, we have, of course, had a leaching curve. We have learned a little more about this virus, if not enough, which I think we can all see. We must be humble and state that there are many things that we do not know. We have also, of course, learned a great deal about how the various support programmes, which may total 800 billion of taxpayers' money, have beaten. What has worked? What hasn't worked? There, of course, we have a continuous dialogue with those to whom this is addressed. Of course, we are also prepared to make the necessary changes as we learn more about how this disease develops in our country and – because it is a global pandemic – in our neighbouring countries and our neighbourhood. It is against this background that we have now made a number of proposals. Here, Mr President, we see a little bit of written comments and contributions in an interpellation debate. Since this interpellation was written, the government has presented a number of proposals regarding financial support for culture and the sub-contractors of culture, but also, of course, on how we can get activities going in a way that I think we all, deep down, long for. In addition, as I said, there are a number of other programmes that we have put in place to support our business community and make sure to save jobs. One example is the conversion aid. A quarter of those who have applied are self-employed. Of course, I also meet many who say that this is not helping now, and it is clear that we are also taking this into the work that we are doing as we learn more about both the infection and its effects. It is against this background, Mr President, that the government does not rule out further action at all. It would be presumptuous to think that we are through this pandemic just because, thankfully, we have had positive developments in recent months, with fewer and fewer people dying of the disease, fewer and fewer people being infected by it and fewer and fewer who are seriously ill. Nevertheless, we are still in the middle of it, which is why we need to get back to work. I also believe, Mr President, that it is extremely important that we continue to stick together, both in Parliament and in the government. We do not know – there one should be humble – what autumn carries in its womb. We are seeing a rather sharp increase in the spread of infection again in many of the European countries, countries that had a positive development in late spring and summer – Italy, Spain, Germany and others. Against this background, Mr President, I can assure the honourable Member that we will continue to work intensively in terms of limiting the spread of infection and in dialogue with the business community, not least the individual entrepreneurs that the honourable Member is talking about, to see how we can support each other through this miserable crisis.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-47	Mr President, I would like to It is very positive that the government is spending money on culture, but then I have to repeat myself: The companies in the experience industry that I am talking about are not cultural workers. They are self-employed, often small self-employed, who are unable to apply for support. We're talking about introducing support for culture. Yes, that's very positive. But with the long lead times these companies have to start up their business again and be able to arrange cultural events, concerts and so on, this whole year has passed, and much of next year has also disappeared. We see companies after companies in this business going bankrupt. We are missing out on a lot of expertise and experience. It will take a long time to rebuild the skills that we lose because of the bankruptcies that we can now read about every day. Therefore, I feel that this is support that would have come a long time ago to prevent us from now facing the fact that one third of Sweden's artists intend to end their business and that we have an experience industry with companies that are no longer on the market. We will stand as a poor cultural country if we do not take steps to save these companies that support all cultural workers.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-51	Mr President, I would like to After all, hindsight is said to be one of the most common prudences. It is clear that we would all have liked us not to be in the situation where we are, with a global pandemic that has taken human lives, made people sick and affected virtually all parts of our society with the anxiety and exclusion that it entails. We have hundreds of thousands of employees who have been out of work, and we have entrepreneurs who have gone bankrupt and who are concerned about how long this is going on. These are the conditions we have. We are working on, and I think it is important, as I said, that we continue to do so together and stick together in this. I understand, of course, that it may be tempting in opposition – I myself have been in opposition for eight years in this House – to try to make a short-term political point, but we are still in the midst of a pandemic. It is important to remind ourselves of this and not to take lightly the risks involved. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm addresses the sub-contractors of culture. I know them well. I am not only aware of them; I have recently met with my colleague, the Minister for Culture, with representatives and representatives of them in order to have a dialogue on the state of play and take note of their proposals. It is against this background that we have also made proposals on how to get the wheels going and also on support that can actually, if they go through in this Parliament, help the subcontractors to the culture, the lighting and sound technologies with several that the honourable Member is talking about. This does not mean that we can therefore say that we have solved this. We must continue to work continuously to ensure that we deal with both the disease itself and its effects on our society, our business community and our employees. I thank the honourable Member for the debate.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-57	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to allow Sweden to violate the mandatory rules of the Package Travel Directive and to allow valuables as an alternative to cash refunds, for what reason I have been involved in deciding on different direct payments to other industries but not to the travel industry, and why the state aid granted to airlines, for example, has not been conditional on them having to comply with the refund law. Sweden is still in a serious situation following the spread of the new coronavirus. The government's focus has been on preventing the spread of infection and saving human lives. At the same time, the ongoing pandemic has had a significant impact on society and the Swedish economy. Many sectors, including the aviation and travel industry and its travellers, have been economically affected as a result of the pandemic. There is a high level of consumer protection in relation to travel, both regular and package travel. The regulatory framework is highly harmonised in the European Union. Under the Package Travel Directive and Package Travel Act, the traveller is entitled to a refund within 14 days. However, there is no obstacle to an organiser offering a voucher as an alternative to a refund. It is up to the traveller to decide for himself whether he or she wants to accept a certificate of value. A traveller who does not wish to do so is entitled to a cash refund. In certain situations, the voucher is a compensation that the traveller considers acceptable while at the same time providing a relief for the organiser. Many companies in the travel industry, for example, are severely affected by the new Corona virus. The government has taken a number of measures aimed at mitigating the economic impact of the new Corona virus on jobs and businesses. The government is continuously working to improve the management of this situation and has taken a number of measures aimed at mitigating the consequences for jobs and businesses, including by lifting costs and enabling short-term lay-off as well as through loans, credit guarantees and rescheduling. Most measures are not sector-specific and are also possible for travel companies to participate in. Otherwise, all companies have to comply with the applicable regulatory framework for their respective activities regardless of whether they receive State aid or not.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-62	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Baylan for his reply. My colleague Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm stood right here and said: no events, no concerts, no football matches and more. We've hardly had any trips either. My first real so-called permanent job was in the travel business. I had previously worked a season in the hotel and restaurant industry and had no experience in selling trips, but there was a wonderful man named Göran Linder who saw some potential in me. During Linder Travel I was raised by Inga, Jeanette, Pierre, Marie Louise and others. Of course they had to start by sorting invoices and running with tickets, but I also soon learned to book trips – difficult but extremely instructive. It was a very funny business. Mr President, I would like to Of course, it's not my career in the travel business that I'm going to talk about. I just want to point out that this is an industry where many young people get the first job, the first real job. It is an industry that is quite broad and complex but still makes it possible to get into the first job, grow with the task and get on with working life. It is an industry that is international and also makes it possible to have a career abroad. The travel industry had around 8,000 employees at the turn of the year. Today, the employees are around 5,000, and 83% are laid off. This compares with, for example, the hotel and restaurant industry where 42 per cent are laid off. There's a pretty big difference. Huge numbers of people are laid off. This ongoing pandemic, which in itself is terrible – I know, because I have tried – has hit tourism and travel in a merciless way, both in Sweden and around the world. Many businesses have now been basically banned from business, and sales in most places have gone to the bottom. The Coronapandemia has hit many businesses hard, but I would say that the travel industry, with a layoff rate of 83%, is very vulnerable. Then I find it strange that the government does not take any targeted support measures at all for this basic industry which is incredibly important for the whole of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates put forward a proposal in the Committee on Civil Liberties to set up a fund for the travel industry, similar to that of Denmark, for example. This has also been proposed by the SRF. But the government and the support parties the Center Party and the Liberals said no to that. I wonder why. It would still fund itself in the future. I will try to make a very educational explanation of how it works: A customer buys, for let's say 10 000 SEK, a trip to a destination. Probably had a long dream about that trip. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs then advises against travelling to the destination. The customer then wishes to cancel the trip and has the right to receive his or her money back within two weeks. Meanwhile, the travel agency has paid the flight and hotel providers and therefore has no money left. Now the travel agency has to pay the money back to the customer because the customer does not want a voucher, as the customer is afraid that the travel agency will go bankrupt. The customer will of course get his money back. However, the airline does not pay any money back to the travel agency, because they are not in a position to do so right now, even though they are receiving state aid. Neither does the hotel. So the travel agency is sitting on black-peckers. My question is: for what reason has the Minister been involved in deciding on different direct payments to other industries but not to the travel industry?
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-71	Mr President, I would like to This is exactly what Alexandra Anstrell says; we have all been hit by this crisis. Some have been directly affected by illness or infection, with all that it entails. Unfortunately, some have also lost their lives. But we also have the effect on our society, on our business community and on our way of life. The industry that might have most quickly noticed this was precisely the tourism industry and all parts of the tourism industry: hotels and restaurants, but also those that enable travel. After a very good dialogue with the travel industry and the tourism industry, we had completed a ten-year tourism strategy for our country that we would club in March. We had come up with that after a very positive development where we saw that more and more people in our country but also from other parts of the world wanted to be in Sweden, with everything it meant. So the industry we are talking about was really on the rise. Of course, we wanted to make sure that it could increase further. It is, as Alexandra Anstrell says, about industries that employ many young and many new arrivals in our country. It is a basic industry in terms of employment and increased employment. Then came the pandemic, and we now know the effects of it. What Alexandra Anstrell says about travel agencies can also be said about hotels, especially in our big cities, and about restaurants and more. Mr President, I would like to It is against this background that we have gone forward with a large number of efforts. Yes, it has been direct support. But we have also made possible the layoffs that Alexandra Anstrell is talking about. This means that companies can go down in working hours and get help from taxpayers to do so. Add rental aid, conversion aid and removal of employers' contributions for enterprises up to the 30th employee. We have also taken over sick pay responsibility. We have implemented a large number of measures with taxpayers' money because we are trying to help each other in a very difficult situation. Almost all of these efforts have been general, for a very simple reason. When this pandemic came, the time aspect was extremely important. We urgently needed to get measures in place so that hundreds of thousands of people would not needlessly have to go into unemployment and that no more tens of thousands of companies would have to go bankrupt at a very difficult time. As a result, the situation was such that the pandemic continued. As I said, we are still in the middle of it. Let's look through and see what else we can do. This could involve screwing the existing systems. Sometimes it can also be about – I certainly do not exclude – new types of intervention, depending on the assessment we make of the development. The travel industry is severely affected. It's been hit hard by the pandemic. However, I believe that it is also affected by what more and more sectors are seeing, and which was already taking place in the past, namely a structural change in favour of digitalisation. It is now also taking off, with all that it means. So we have great challenges here. We're having a dialogue. As I said, I am not ruling out further measures. However, Mr President, I must nevertheless be honest in this House and say that almost no matter what action we will take, there will be consequences. This pandemic is so extensive and so long-lasting.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I don't really know how digitalisation would hamper travel, but I might get a further development of that. Yesterday's decision by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs that the advice from travel to the rest of the world should apply until 15 November means that the travel industry still has, and will continue to have, a form of business ban for eight months. Nevertheless, there are some countries within Europe that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs no longer advises against travelling to. However, many in the industry feel that it is virtually impossible to arrange trips to those countries because government decisions can be changed from one day to another, and the customer has the right to get the money back because of the Package Travel Act. One might wonder whether the government intends to change the legislation. And how does the government think of the advice from travelling to countries that do not have a major spread of infection and that still want and can receive Swedes? There are many small and medium-sized enterprises in the travel industry. Many are family businesses. Since March many have lost 100% of sales and, at the same time, have to refund 100% to customers through this mandatory law, despite the fact that both airlines and other suppliers have not paid them back. I'd say it's not fair. Airlines and hotels can receive state aid but without any obligation to refund to travel agents. In this case, travel agencies become some kind of insurance company because their insurance company, which they have already hired, has hit the ceiling a long time ago. Now travel agencies have only obligations and no rights. The proposal we put forward in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to create a travel fund was rejected by the government and the support parties. Instead, it was agreed that a procedure with vouchers should be investigated. Of course, as the Minister says, there is no obstacle to an organiser offering a voucher as an alternative to a refund. But many customers are worried about whether that particular travel agency will be okay. We should know that if the travel agency goes bankrupt, which many unfortunately have already done this year and which many are facing according to what I have heard from the industry, gift cards are not covered by the Swedish Travel Guarantee Act. The customer will be without money and without travel. Many countries in the EU have introduced various support measures for the travel sector due to covid-19. Laws have been amended, direct aid has been introduced or a fund has been introduced. I intend to do some kind of vouchers or gift cards is to push the problem ahead. I get quite upset and wonder why the government does not do more for the travel industry when you understand that it is an industry in need. It works in other countries. In Denmark, a fund has been set up and direct payments have also been made, including for take-home costs. Mr President, I would like to I'm concerned. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs say to the tired, sad, angry, abandoned and betrayed people in the travel business who are here with us today? They are committed and really want sustainable travel, both for the sake of the environment and for safe travel during a pandemic. Is there any possibility of direct payments, or does the Minister intend to amend the Swedish Travel Guarantee Act, so that value certificates are allowed as an alternative for the customer if a travel agency goes bankrupt? Or are there other suggestions? I'm not the only one asking.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-88	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell asked a number of questions. I'll try to go through them one by one. The first was what digitalisation has to do with travel and travel agencies. I think that both those who sit here as an audience today and those who listen to us via television probably recognize that more and more of travel bookings and other things are done via the internet and various websites. It will probably continue, and I would think that during this pandemic it will accelerate for the simple reason that we have seen that the great risk of covid-19 is that it is contagious between people. In the same way, I think everyone understands that what we are seeing now, i.e. that we have more and more meetings via screen – Skype, Teams and all that is now called – is not something that will back down all the way when the pandemic is over. Rather, this digitalisation will also change the way we travel. I believe that everyone understands this fundamentally, and that will of course also affect the industry. I also believe that everyone understands that this means that the structural change that was already under way will accelerate during the pandemic. This industry is not only faced with the enormous challenge of covid-19, but also with an increased acceleration of digitalisation. Alexandra Anstrell asks whether I intend to change the Package Travel Act, well aware that it is based on a binding European directive that applies across the Union. Before a directive is amended, Sweden cannot, on its own, amend a law based on this directive. It would be a violation of EU law. I don't think Alexandra Anstrell or the Moderates are proponents of that kind of chaotic behavior. I also get the question of support. I would ask you, Mr President, to repeat what I said before when it came to aid to another sector: we have introduced guarantees, loans, liquidity enhancements and direct aid to cover costs, help with rents, sick pay and employers' contributions for small businesses. We have done this precisely to mitigate the effects. As I said in relation to the previous interpellation debate and all the other questions I get about different sectors, because unfortunately it is not only these two sectors we are talking about, but the covid-19 crisis is so broad and deep in the whole economy that a large number of industries continue to be in a very difficult situation: yes, we are in dialogue with them. Yes, we do not rule out the need for further action. These may be extensions of existing aid, new aid and sometimes direct aid. However, one should be aware that when it comes to completely new measures, the processing requirements that we have in our constitution, and which are also imposed from this Parliament, are such that it always takes longer than when implementing general, broader measures such as the removal of labour donor contributions up to the 30th employee we carried out or the removal of sickness pay liability. Mr President, I would like to I understand that it may be tempting to try to score party political points in a very difficult time, but I think it is important that we continue working together to try to do the best in a very difficult situation.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-97	Mr President, I would like to I'm not trying to score political points. All summer has passed, but we haven't heard a sound from the government about the travel business. I'm trying to help the travel business. I want to be clear about that. If you have a country in crisis, you can't take time off all summer. Digitalisation goes in waves, of course. That a lot of booking is done online is self-evident. It's been a long time since it's been started. It was my time in the business. And I would say that the industry is quite well prepared digitally. In fact, I think that all the speakers today would be happy to welcome the Minister to visit. The Minister mentioned the EU directive and what we can or can't do in Sweden. There are countries that have done things in other ways. There are possibilities. They have changed laws, introduced funds, provided targeted support or at least cared. I understand that the Minister and the government are calling on the industry to give vouchers but do not want to make it easier for the travel industry. How can you sit and have costs for both flights and hotels and pay money back to the customer? That's absurd. It doesn't work in your own economy, and it doesn't work in anyone else's economy either. I'm sorry I dunked the minister. So far, the government has made no effort to help and support Sweden's travel agencies. I do not think that the Swedes will stop travelling. If Swedish travel agencies disappear, someone else will establish themselves on the market. Probably it's going to be foreign players. I don't think that's the government's will. I'd appreciate it if we could get some answers. Is there any aversion to travel itself or some kind of political prestige on this issue? I really appreciate it if you want to work together, but right now nothing is happening.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-104	Mr President, I would like to It's okay for the honourable Member to tell me. It's no problem. It has been a long time since we made that reform. Since March, taxpayers have seen hundreds of billions of their tax dollars, namely 800 billion, being made available for various types of guarantees, loans and credits to mitigate the effects on our Swedish business and thus also save Swedish jobs. Then it seems strange to say that nothing is being done. Then I am the first to say that this is not enough in relation to the crisis we are in. It is not for the very simple reason that this crisis is broad and deep in a way that we have never seen before. Against this background, we are clear to say that we will have to continue working, also against the travel industry and against a number of other sectors of the economy. We certainly see that parts of the industry are moving up at a very slow pace, but still we see that large parts of the economy are at a level that allows additional support to be made available and that – I am not ruling out this – they are also trying to find ways to get the wheels moving. Then it takes us to create a situation where people feel safe. As Alexandra Anstrell you can try to pick political points and ask if we have any aversion against travellers. No, of course we don't. But even if we allow travel in all directions and edges, people see the pandemic going on. Then it's rational to stay home this year. The big challenge for us is to create security and limit the spread of infection. This will make it much easier to get the wheels going also for the travel industry.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-109	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati has asked the Minister for Labour whether she intends to take the initiative to monitor the situation regarding accident statistics and systematic work at Samhall. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government sees in Samhall an important and well-functioning tool for people with disabilities who are outside the labour market and who cannot get other work or support through other interventions to be able to get a job. I agree with Ali Esbati's view that people with specific challenges are working at Samhall and that it is particularly important for employers to be responsible for systematic work environment management. We follow the company in these matters, and as part of further clarifying our commitment, it was decided at the Annual General Meeting on a direct mission objective regarding the measurement of the engagement index of employees. We also have a dialogue with the company on work environment issues. My view is that Samhall works continuously with the work environment and has a systematic work environment work. Regarding the management of c ovid-19, the company has clear guidelines and has carried out risk assessments at central and local level in the operations. Work environment and safety must always be a priority and do not constitute a contradiction with the company's target for return and an economy in balance. However, the objectives should be realistic and long-term. As part of a review of the company's financial targets, the Government decided at the Annual General Meeting in April to lower the market rate target from 7 per cent's return on equity to 5 per cent.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-115	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ibrahim Baylan, for your answer! It is good if this is what the Minister says: that we agree on the importance of systematic work environment management in general and at Samhall, where those who work often have specific medical and social challenges and are in a more vulnerable position, in particular. I also believe that the government has the view expressed here by Ibrahim Baylan that Samhall is seen as an important tool for giving some who otherwise risk being outside the labour market a place in the working community and a place of their own income. However, I regret to say that I am not completely reassured by what I perceive as a rather unconcerned belief that the work environment work is working well – that it did so before the pandemic and that it does so during the current pandemic. I have to say that I have been following developments and discussions on Samhall for quite a long time, as has Ibrahim Baylan from different positions. What concerns me is that there is sometimes a rather striking discrepancy between what is reported by Samhall centrally, for example as a result of employee surveys, and what comes out through trade union contacts. One might imagine that it could be whining from individual people here and there, but these are recurring criticisms. It is also something that has led to quite a large number of investigative articles in, among others, the Fastighetsfolk newspaper. I think that these examples themselves should lead to greater reflection but also to a reflection on whether there are any systematic problems in the way follow-up works. Is it the case that employee surveys may not be able to catch up with some problems? Is it that some of the problems are very local? Is it that there are challenges to the situation of supervisors and how they look? It has a mandate to make sure that the yield requirements work upwards. At the same time, one should look at the very different and varied situations of the employees. I didn't hear any of those arguments in the answer from Ibrahim Baylan. That is unfortunately how it has been before when I have raised the issues around Samhall with various ministers in the government. One thing I specifically mentioned in my question was the work situation of a part of Samhall's staff in cleaning and cleaning – it's part of Samhall's business that has grown very fast and has become dominant. For example, at the beginning of the summer, 17 June, one could read in the newspaper Work that the proportion of accidents leading to sick leave is generally twice as high in Samhall compared to the rest of the labour market. We see that it is the same relationship in real estate services, i.e. that it is twice as high for Samhall compared to the industry average. The Fastighetsfolk magazine conducted a survey among club presidents and safety representatives at Samhall last winter – I mentioned the union insight there. It shows that almost half of the trade unions experienced the working environment as bad or very bad. It was this discrepancy that prompted my question to the government, whether it might be possible to initiate a follow-up of accident statistics. If we agree that this is a problem, we should be able to come up with a better discussion of what the state can do to assume its responsibilities as owner and as the governing body of state labour market policy.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-124	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the question. We have discussed this before. And since we discussed this, we have made a number of changes, not least in the governance that I am responsible for in the government– that's why I answer this question instead of the Minister for Labour. We have done this because I am convinced that we can never ever believe that we have done everything and therefore do not need to take any further action. Samhall is a large company known to Ali Esbati. There are 25 000 employees working in various customer assignments at nearly 13 000 workplaces, and these workplaces are located around our country. I am fully aware that there is criticism of the company. There is media coverage, but of course it also comes out in direct discussion between trade unions and employers, which is exactly as it should be. It is against this background that we always address this in our ownership dialogue. It was also against this background that we at the Annual General Meeting made changes to our ownership policy, just as I explained. Ali Esbati says that he is not satisfied with the answer I gave. I'm not sure that interpellations are always being made for you to just be satisfied. However, if that is what Ali Esbati says, that he is concerned that we have not taken any action, I can say that it is not correct that we have not taken any action. We have taken action and we will continue to take action. Why? Because Samhall is very important. Samhall is very important because almost all people who work there are people who, as I said earlier, may not be able to find jobs in the open labour market and who have different types of disabilities with all the challenges it entails. Against this background, it is important for us to ensure that this activity can be developed and that it is strong. But, of course, it is also a matter of doing our utmost to ensure that both the working environment and safety can be guaranteed in these 13 000 different establishments. Are there any flaws? Yes, there are reports of that. There is a difference this time, when I and Ali Esbati discuss this, in the news articles that Ali Esbati brings up in his interpellation. Unfortunately, as a minister, I cannot go into individual cases, but I note that those who testify to shortcomings also testify that Samhall is acting much faster and more resolutely, if not locally so nationally, when you contact the HR department, for example. That's good. This does not mean that we can thus say: Yes, but then we have prevented all problems for the future. In view of the nature of the activity, new establishments will always be created, with all the new challenges involved. It is against this background that we make demands towards the company and management and follow up on how to systematically work with this but also how to act when there are shortcomings. It is also a question of having a very close and confident discussion with their trade union counterparts. I think that both I and Ali Esbati are fundamentally very keen that this activity continues to develop and that it develops so that people who otherwise find it very difficult to find employment get employment but in a safe and secure way, as we all have the right to have it when we are at work.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-133	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the nature of the interpellation itself, I shall say that I have had the privilege of asking interpellations on a series of questions relating to the labour market – both to representatives of this government and to others. Often there is a much stronger criticism and a more conflict-filled approach than in this situation. Here I think the government has a good will and a reasonable idea that Samhall is an important institution and an important company. The reason why I am asking this question about Samhall's various challenges and problems and that I have done so many times in the past is precisely because I think that it is important that there is consistency between what is said in more solemn terms about Samhall and the commitment shown. I am the first to say that I welcome the fact that the government has done some things on the ownership side recently. The reduction in the requirement for market returns is a step in the right direction based on the reality that has prevailed. It is possible to have views on how quickly they acted, but we can agree that it was good to finally listen to some of the criticisms that have existed for a long time. I think it's important that you don't end up in a situation where in practice there is a feeling on the part of those who work at Samhall that you have to take that it can be a problematic work environment, a bit risky and that sort of thing. You should be kind of grateful that you have a job, and then you may not be able to whine so much at risks and things like that. I am certainly not saying that this is the government's entrance; what I am saying is that in an activity with vulnerable employees we need to have even greater clarity in the systematic work environment work, because it can be quite difficult for people in such a vulnerable situation to make their voice heard. It is therefore even more important to follow up signals from, for example, trade union representatives and safety representatives. I also think that we need to have a little bigger discussion in society and in this a little clearer vision from the government what you really want with Samhall. As it is now, there is quite a lot of criticism from a variety of quarters. Some things I agree with, other things I disagree with at all. But the situation is that there are business organisations that think Samhall sometimes competes out of them. Civil society and social enterprises want to be in the same industries as Samhall and think Samhall gets too high remuneration. We also have a criticism from the disability movement about people sometimes being left a little wind by wave at Samhall. Of course, there will always be criticism. Therefore, it is also necessary to actively and proactively work on the part of the government to constantly develop Samhall, hence my recurring reminders in this forum.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-140	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ali Esbati– I appreciate the commitment for many reasons, perhaps not least the last thing Ali Esbati went through. It's just so complicated. There may be many reasons for criticism, and criticism exists. It is also against this background that we spend a great deal of time conducting a dialogue and a discussion and making demands on the management of Samhall, a management that I think in many respects does a very good job. That doesn't mean everything's perfect. Nor does it mean that we are satisfied and that everything that happens within Samhall is as we want it. That is why we will continue to engage in dialogue and discussion with the leadership on the basis of the shortcomings that sometimes appear in the media context but also in direct contacts with trade union representatives and sometimes, of course, when we are conducting that dialogue with Samhall's leadership. Nevertheless, it is important to remember what a tremendous effort Samhall is making. But that effort should not, although we appreciate it very much, be confused with what Ali Esbati is talking about, namely the view that these people have no other alternative and therefore have to be grateful for what they get. No! We shall never accept such a human view. I know it can happen sometimes. In my own daily life, I have met it on and off, because I have a daughter with a certain disability. She may well eventually be considered for this type of job, and I am probably the first to react forcefully to that kind of view of people. For God's sake, human dignity cannot be graded according to how one works in different situations! In fact, in many paragraphs it is about how our society is created and how the working environment is organised rather than that every person should be grateful for what little it gets. I can therefore assure Ali Esbati that, in addition to the dialogue we have here, the government also has a continued dialogue with Samhall on developing. It will sometimes involve a direct dialogue with the management. Sometimes, as we have seen in the spring, it will mean sharp proposals with resolutions at the Annual General Meeting on changes in the governance of Samhall. The demand for return was one. The reporting requirements are another example. Appreciating our activities does not mean that we should not improve it as far as we can.
i-19f84d0edd7fc475-145	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for what the Minister says. Nevertheless, I need to sum up a little bit why I asked the question and what is still a concern and a concern when I look at what is happening at Samhall. It is precisely because, hopefully, we agree that Samhall has an important role to play as this exchange of views takes place at all. What I think I will have to return to or follow up is precisely the discrepancy between the fact that there are some studies and measurements that the company has used that look very good and that there seem to be quite clear problems that other types of surveys and conversations point to, and it is not about isolated things. As I mentioned, about half of the trade union representatives in the cleaning industry in Samhall said that the working environment was bad or very bad. This is really something you need to follow up to see how it really works and what you can do. As I said, I am also in favour of reducing the yield target. But there are also other types of systematic challenges that need to be followed up, such as which ones can fit within Samhall and how the activities that exist in the areas that have grown, such as cleaning. Perhaps there are other areas that Samhall should deal with even more than today? We will return to these questions later.
i-CRhRDQFys6hzSpHLf9LDob	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ali Esbati, for an urgent question. I noted in social media that some right-wing person was surprised that Ali Esbati had studied at the Stockholm School of Economics. At the same time as Ali Esbati studied at the School of Economics, I worked as a regional safety representative and regional ombudsman for the then Trade Union. This work involved a great deal of work, not least in relation to the non-profit sector, and despite all the goodwill in the world, there were still shortcomings. Sometimes it was about taking a fight, and sometimes it was about working together, because it wasn't out of spite that it went wrong but simply because you didn't know better. Therefore, Mr President, I know from my own experience that we need to come back to these kinds of issues on a continuous basis. This is particularly true in such diverse activities as Samhall, with so many workplaces and also with people with disabilities who, for that reason, have greater challenges and may sometimes not be able to take advantage of their rights. Mr President, I would like to I can assure Ali Esbati that we will continue to work on. I welcome his return so that next time we can report on the progress we are making. I do not think, however, that any of us can promise that everything will be perfect, because from my own experience I know, as I said, that when it comes to work environment work, you need to keep working.
