i-3520514d1588c072-9	Mr President, I would like to Per Schöldberg has asked Minister Jennie Nilsson about how biotop protection is intended to work and whether it is reasonable for it to restrict ownership and opportunities for rational agriculture, with reference to the circumstances of an individual case, and whether the Government intends to take any action. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Biotop protection aims to preserve valuable natural and cultural environments. Cultivation in agricultural land is a biotope protected by the general biotope protection. Cultivation can be important as a habitat for many species associated with the farming landscape. Older rock heaps often represent cultural historical traces from previous agricultural activities where the stones have been removed from the cultivated land in order to facilitate their use. The stones have been laid on nearby land that has not been cultivated, and then they have been left behind. The abundance of stone in some soils is also today a problem for users, and there may be reason to remove it from the soil in order to be able to farm rationally. The Government considers that biotop protection is essential to preserve important elements of small biotopes in a farming landscape that is becoming increasingly less diverse and where species are at risk of disappearing. The national red list presented in spring 2020 shows that just over 50 per cent of all red-listed species are associated with the farming landscape. For most of these species, the farming landscape is particularly important as a habitat. As Per Schöldberg says, I cannot comment on the individual case. Instead, I would like to refer to the guidance provided by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for the application of biotope protection for crop porridge in agricultural land. In its assessment of how biotope protection should be applied, the Authority states that stone tips from recent times consisting of stones originating in agricultural operations should normally not be covered by the protection of the crop porridge until more than a year has passed since a rock collection began to be set up on the site. Thus, if a user places pickstones from the field, he or she should normally have at least one year to take care of the stone before the protection takes effect. The user who for some reason has not had the opportunity to remove his stone collection in time also has the opportunity to contact the County Administrative Board to apply for a derogation from the biotop protection for the crop porridge. With the change in the rule that came into force in autumn 2014, measures that facilitate agricultural activities may constitute a particular reason for exemption. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis shows that during the period 2013 – 2017, the number of exemptions granted where agricultural activities were given as a reason increased. I can assure Per Schöldberg that the government will continue to monitor developments in general biotop protection and the opportunities for sustainable agriculture.
i-3520514d1588c072-17	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I take the floor as positive and as if you really want something and you are going to follow it up and look at it. As I see it, it is not the opposite interests to protect biodiversity and to strengthen the opportunities for viable agriculture and therefore healthy and good food. This pile of rocks and cairns may seem like a small question. But it turns out it's not. It's a question in people's everyday lives. Sustainability is in the interests of the landowner, and I have not yet encountered anyone who fundamentally questions the biotop protection itself. But when the question came up in my home country, Kronoberg, I was contacted not only by a farmer, but there were many examples that were shared with me, actually from different parts of the country where the regulations, or rather the application of the regulations, create problems. To put it simply: Stones are not something we take lightly in Småland. A farmer couple in Kosta who have about 70 hectares of land say that it is good that we raise this issue in Parliament but that it is important to point out that it is not the law that is wrong, but it is interpretation and application that goes crazy. This farm couple in Kosta take 40 - 50 tons of rock out of the field. In other words, it is not a small question. Viveka at Kronobergs kungsgård in Småland says: ..................................................... I have the same vision as the farmer couple from Kosta and Viveka at Kronobergs kungsgård. It is not the law, it is the application. It is the Environmental Protection Agency's descriptions and interpretations that I think one should review. What does the Government think about starting to look at compensatory measures? For example, there could be some kind of producer responsibility in which, if other alternatives have been exhausted, there would actually be an opportunity to compensate for maintaining biodiversity but perhaps not exactly in that place. One may be allowed to move a pile of stones if one can ensure that diversity is ensured from a holistic perspective. It would provide room for manoeuvre for the landowner and a constructive opportunity for the authority to take a step further and find solutions. I did not think, as I said, that this was such a big issue, but there are many people who have contacted me and want to discuss this because they think it is the application and not the legislation that should be worked on. You want to follow this carefully, and I take it positively. My question will then be: will you take any action, and how does the Government view the discussion on compensatory measures?
i-3520514d1588c072-27	Mr President, I would like to Of course, this is an issue that affects many farmers. But let me start by describing the broader context of how important it is to the general biotop protection. We know that developments in biodiversity and in important ecosystem services both nationally and globally are worrying. The UN Panel on Biological Diversity, IPBES, last year presented a report on the state of the world's biodiversity and ecosystems. It indicates that 1 million species are threatened with extinction. The number of species at risk of extinction has never been as many as today. Several of these species form part of important ecosystem services such as pollination of arable crops. The report points to five major drivers of biodiversity loss: degradation of habitats, exploitation of species through fishing, agriculture and forestry, climate change, invasive species and pollution. Biotop protection is an important tool for preserving the diversity of habitats in, for example, the agricultural landscape. We see that, despite a number of efforts, the threat to biodiversity in the agricultural landscape does not diminish. The Swedish environmental objectives are not achieved either. For the agricultural landscape, the biggest challenge is the negative trends and trends we see for biodiversity. It's the context. I agree with Per Schöldberg that Swedish food production is important and that agriculture has a fundamental importance for our long-term access to good and safe food. Of course, as Per Schöldberg mentions, rational agriculture is important. But to that I would like to add the importance of sustainability. And I know farmers share that conviction. We need to find a balance here. It is of course important that biotope protection is designed in such a way that the individual farmer can obtain exceptions if the reasons are deemed justified. As I said in my first post, a change of law entered into force in September 2014. It means that measures that facilitate agriculture can be a particular reason for exemption from general biotopes protection, such as the removal of crops. This means that you can submit an exemption application to the county administrative board. The County Administrative Board assesses the measure applied for, and the decision may be either refused, granted or partially granted. An exemption granted or partly granted may also be subject to an obligation of ecological compensation. The answer to Per Schöldberg's question whether compensatory measures are also possible is that this possibility already exists today when applying for a derogation from the county administrative board. Exemptions may be granted precisely for measures which facilitate agricultural activities, and partial exemptions may be granted with compensatory measures or financial compensation as part of the derogation granted. There's an opportunity. I think that is something that is also being applied today. We see that the number of applications that have been granted has increased significantly since the amendment came into force.
i-3520514d1588c072-35	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, the number of exemptions granted has increased. But it's de facto inconspicuous. It is a long process and quite complicated to get this clear. I would therefore like to highlight the compensatory measures in such a way that they become part of it and so that they create an opportunity for the authorities as well. I feel that there are different assessments in different counties, but I'm not going to call it legal uncertainty. There is a great deal of uncertainty about these issues, which means there will be a lot of discussion. Finally, I agree with the great picture that the Government describes in relation to the threat to the environment. But I am quite convinced that Småland farmers want to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. I therefore hope that this will be pushed more forward and will create better opportunities and better dialogue between the relevant authorities. The application of the rules is welcome to be reviewed. It's really the core of my interpellation.
i-RUfx91cpX78HgMrpY9YyUA	Mr President, I would like to Thanks again for the interpellation, Per Schöldberg! The government's view is that with the amendment of the law that came into force in September 2014, there are much better conditions to obtain a derogation for the facilitation of agricultural activities. We also see that the granted and partly granted decisions with agriculture, which have, in particular, been substantially increased with the amendment of the law. The Government therefore considers that the purpose of the amendment has been achieved. Of course, the authorities can always work more with dialogue and with information to those involved. It is not surprising that it may vary between different geographical areas. That's often the case. But it is clear that this is an issue to be treated equally across the country. We also assume that this will happen. It is also a balancing process. We must pay attention to the enormous loss of biodiversity that we see. It may seem like over-regulation when a rock heap that has been lying for one year is covered by the general biotop protection. But all of us who grew up in the country know that after a very short time different species are established in protected corners of the garden or nature. A pile of stones may become a home for smaller mammals, frogs, lizards, snakes, and insects. After a year, mosses and lichens also establish themselves on the surface of the stones. Each stone heap may not be seen as particularly important for biodiversity. But unfortunately, we are in a position on this planet where both ecosystems and individual species are threatened. Therefore, natural considerations and sustainability are important even in areas that are used. This is therefore a complement to nature conservation areas and nature reserves, where the land should not be cultivated at all. We must maintain protection and a system of sustainability also in the areas managed by forestry and agriculture. But this also applies to cities and residential areas. It is important to have green infrastructure and to ensure that animals and plants are able to survive even where there is a lot of concrete, asphalt and the like. This also applies, of course, to agriculture. I see that there are great opportunities for farmers to apply for a derogation. This can be used if you perceive that there are difficulties in removing these rocks in time.
i-3520514d1588c072-45	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government. I think you should look at the compensatory measures and develop them even more. It is actually based on producer responsibility. If you can balance it up, I'd be very happy. Overall, there is always the opportunity to do it better. There are always solutions. If there are opportunities, we can certainly work even more to get there. But maybe I want a little more than the government. Finally, I would like to wish the Council of State all the best of luck. I understand that new tasks await us.
i-6rWD7ekyriuuK3jsw4cGpm	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Per Schöldberg! I am also convinced that together we can create a living landscape where the soil is used and where there are opportunities for endangered ecosystems and species to have their habitats. A balance can be found between the different interests. Finally, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his good wishes.
i-3520514d1588c072-51	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Berglund has asked me if I intend to take the initiative to change the environmental code and make the constitutional changes that the Swedish Armed Forces are requesting, and if so, when. Furthermore, he has asked if I intend to take the initiative to amend the Swedish Armed Forces' environmental review regulation(2013:251) and if so, when. Jörgen Berglund has also asked if I think the Swedish Armed Forces should be given more special treatment in matters relating to the Environmental Code, where the Swedish Armed Forces receive various forms of relief given their unique role in society. Finally, he has asked me if I will take any steps to facilitate the operations of the Armed Forces by speeding up the licensing process for training and shooting fields. Mr President, I would like to In July 2020, the Swedish Armed Forces submitted a supplementary budget base for 2021. In the complement, the Swedish Armed Forces proposes, among other things, that the environmental review regulation be amended in such a way that the storage and handling of fuels and other chemical products handled by the Swedish Armed Forces should only be subject to notification requirements, regardless of how large quantities are handled. The Swedish Armed Forces also propose that the role of the Land and Environmental Court in permit cases relating to the Swedish Armed Forces' activities be changed in such a way that the court should submit such cases to the Government immediately, without at the same time giving an opinion. The Swedish Armed Forces also want urgent requirements to be introduced. The supplementary budget base is currently being prepared in the Government Office. I will not anticipate that preparation. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise that modern and effective licensing processes are a priority for the government. The government has therefore recently set up an investigation to review the current environmental review system and propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective test while ensuring the maintenance of environmental protection. In his work, the investigator must consult the Swedish Armed Forces, among others. The study will present its report in December 2021. Finally, when it comes to the Armed Forces' training and shooting fields, they are tested in accordance with the environmental code. In the Environmental Code there is an established order for how environmental testing involving, among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces should be carried out. If a case is handled by the Land and Environment Court, it shall be submitted, together with an opinion, to the Government for review. Cases about practice and shooting fields usually contain extensive data with complex issues. This obviously affects the duration of proceedings. However, the starting point for the government's review is that it should take place quickly, effectively and without prejudice to legal certainty.
i-3520514d1588c072-57	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by thanking Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, for answering one of my questions in part, but there are several. Let me get back to them in a little while. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the defence and security policy situation in the world and in the immediate vicinity of Sweden continues to deteriorate is hardly in dispute. We have Russia's increasingly aggressive behaviour beyond its own borders and not least through activities that we usually call grey zone problems. An example in the near future is the cyberattack that took place against the Norwegian capital. That attack came from Russia, as the Norwegian Government has stated. Mr President, I would like to The deteriorating international situation has also led to the need to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. That is even to be welcomed by the Green Party, which, after all, is run by the peace and disarmament movement. New money, new materials and more exercises are examples of what it means when defence capabilities are to increase. Precisely the possibilities for training are something incredibly central when you want to strengthen defence capabilities. Exercise is the very essence of building stronger and more capable military units that can solve the most difficult of tasks. Without more, longer and larger exercises, new materials and more conscripts are not much to come with. However, in order to practice, the Swedish Armed Forces need more training and shooting fields with current environmental permits. Getting an environmental permit is both resource-intensive and time-consuming. The entire permit process normally takes between five and twenty years. I think it is on the verge of absurdity. I have absolutely no views on the need for this, but the time it takes to obtain an environmental permit is far too long. Here the government itself bears a responsibility by dragging its feet in the decision-making process. There are permits waiting for decisions since 2012. They have thus been with the government since 2012. The Government's response states that the trial should be quick and effective. The Government is happy to explain how eight years is fast and effective. It's almost like you think the government's taken a break. Mr President, I would like to It doesn't have to take this long. The Swedish Armed Forces have asked the government how the permit processes can be faster and more efficient. I would really like to emphasise that it is not a question of relief from demands, but of the process, i.e. the administration and the paperwork. It does not affect emissions, noise, bird life or anything else. This is the time factor, and it is important in the light of the deteriorating world situation. One of the proposals of the Swedish Armed Forces is that the County Administrative Board, to which the permits are first sent, should deal with matters promptly. Today, a matter lies with the County Administrative Board between three and five years. Urgency can be decided by the government itself through a constitution that says that the county boards should give priority to these matters. If the Government now believes that the trials should be quick and effective, as she herself put it, I wonder why the Government does not change the constitution and orders the County Administrative Boards to handle the permit trials from the Swedish Armed Forces promptly. What's the motive?
i-6ZKzo53uKzE1U6WewLu1tX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jörgen Berglund, for the question! Let me begin by emphasising that one of the reasons for today's court order of land and environment courts is that they are an instance used to dealing with large and extensive cases involving many complainants and cases of a technically complex nature. Shooting and practice fields are generally matters where there are many close accommodations and others who have complaints and need to be heard. The additional budget data submitted by the Swedish Armed Forces revealed, among other things, that the Authority proposes that the Environmental Code be amended so that the opinion of the Land and Environmental Court should not be obtained in permit processes where the Swedish Armed Forces apply for permits for environmentally hazardous activities. An appealed permit decision must therefore go directly from the county administrative board's environmental review delegation to the government. Today, according to the Environmental Code, the Swedish Armed Forces are applying for a permit from the environmental review delegation that investigates the matter and can then decide on a permit. If an appeal is lodged, it shall be submitted to the Land and Environment Court, which will prepare the case and then submit it to the Government for review. One of the reasons for this is, as has been said, that land and environmental courts are used to dealing with these large and extensive cases with many complainants. We can note that the Swedish Armed Forces have requested this. As I said in my initial reply, this request is being prepared within the Government Office, and I cannot anticipate the process. Nevertheless, I can mention that the government has set up an investigation to modernise the environmental permit processes. This does not only happen with regard to the Swedish Armed Forces, but it applies generally and horizontally to how to modernise and speed up these processes. This is important not primarily for the defence but for many different activities, not least in order for us to cope with climate change. The investigation was set up in August this year. It is tasked with reviewing the environmental assessment system and proposing amendments and measures necessary to achieve a more modern and effective environmental assessment. There are several parts of what the Swedish Armed Forces have ordered. Among other things, it is also a question of not having to apply for a permit, but that you should only report stocks of fuel and chemicals, for example. I have the same answer there: this is being prepared within the Government Office, and I cannot anticipate the process.
i-3520514d1588c072-70	Mr President, I would like to There will be many words from the Government about investigations, ambitions and intentions. That's good. But after all, it is results and not talk that counts. In the light of a deteriorating world situation, the government needs to act. One of my other questions concerns the environmental review regulation, which the Government mentioned. Broadly speaking, this is a problem that arises when the Swedish Armed Forces are applying for a permit to handle fuels and chemicals. The permit must be applied for from the relevant county administrative board, and the permit procedure is, as a general rule, public except for the classified parts. All this shall be communicated with any counterparties. If the place where the permit is intended to apply is confidential, it becomes a dilemma. It will then be difficult to maintain confidentiality in view of the party's transparency. By way of comparison, Mr President, in the Planning and Construction Act, there is an exception for secret total defence facilities from, among other things, building and demolition permits. Instead, the county administrative board, which in turn informs the municipality concerned in an appropriate way – as it is expressed – about the construction process, will be consulted. This is done to maintain confidentiality. In other words, today the Swedish Armed Forces can build a secret facility with minimal transparency. However, when the Swedish Armed Forces are to deploy it by, for example, having fuel at the facility for access to reserve power, the facility is in danger of being cleared because it has to apply for a permit for the storage of fuel, which can be done with transparency. Mr President, I would like to On this point, too, it is not a question of reducing environmental requirements; it is a question of the process, the administration and the paperwork. Does Isabella Lövin really think that today's rules are adapted to the international situation we have? Why can the Swedish Armed Forces not be subject to a so-called notification obligation instead of a permit requirement? Does the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action not think that the security of the country is more important than employing some extra officials on the respective county administrative boards? It is the case, Mr President, that the environment is not harmed any more by making a notification instead of an application.
i-3520514d1588c072-74	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jörgen Berglund for the question. Today it looks like this: If you have an activity that has less impact or is less dangerous to the environment, you can only report it. But if there is something that has a greater environmental risk, you need to have a condition of MPD at the county administrative board. As I said, this request is prepared by the Swedish Armed Forces within the Government Office. I cannot anticipate that process. However, I can say a few words about the principle of public access. It is a fundamental principle of Swedish government. One expression of this is the possibility of obtaining public documents, the so-called public document. However, there are, of course, provisions on confidentiality that limit the right to access public documents. These provisions are contained in the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. Authorities, courts and others, such as the Government Office, who handle the Swedish Armed Forces' applications for permits for environmentally hazardous activities, are well acquainted with the regulations of the Public Access and Confidentiality Act. In the event of a request for a document, whether authorisation or notification, a confidentiality check is always carried out, that is to say, a verification of whether the document can be disclosed or whether it contains classified secret information. If the document does not contain any confidential information, it will be released promptly to the person requesting it. If, on the other hand, the document contains classified or secret information, the person requesting the document will be informed accordingly. If the person still wants the document out, it will be decided that the document will not be released. That decision can then be appealed against. This is of course a very important principle for Sweden. We stand up for the principle of public access. At the same time, we are well aware that we need national security as our top priority. Our authorities are very much aware of this when it comes to these matters. I cannot therefore give a full answer, as the Swedish Armed Forces' request is being prepared within the Government Office.
i-3520514d1588c072-80	Mr President, I would like to It's happening as I've previously mentioned things quite quickly in our surrounding world. It worries me a little that the Government continues to talk about preparation and investigations. My point is that the things that the Armed Forces themselves have highlighted are such things that the government itself can make decisions about. So they do not have to detour through the Swedish parliament and take a long time. We seem to agree on the upgrading of Swedish defence capabilities. I do not doubt the Government's ambitions, as she puts it, and the starting points the government wants to work on. But the problem remains – this takes far too long. I understand that the Government does not want to comment on things being prepared in the Government Office. I respect that. At the same time, however, I think that, as a representative of the government, we can also have an idea of the direction we want to take. It's very hard to decipher at all whether you think this is a good idea or not. It is true, Mr President, that different interests are being weighed against each other. I hope, of course, that the government will get to grips with these things as a matter of urgency. I say that these are relatively simple changes to make. We cannot have an order in Sweden where we can build a plant that is secret, but then it will be revealed when you get a couple of dunks of diesel, Mr President. I can conclude, as was mentioned earlier – if I do not have time to meet with the Government in another interpellation debate on fibre banks – wish her good luck in her future actions.
i-3520514d1588c072-85	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jörgen Berglund for this wish for prosperity. We'll see if there'll be any more interpellation debates about fibre banks before then. As far as national security is concerned, I think that we should jointly have faith in our authorities that they can make the assessment of when to disclose or not to disclose documents that may be harmful to national security. I have full confidence in the authorities' assessments and their ability to do so. Undoubtedly, the defense is important in this turbulent time with the threat picture we see and the turbulent world that we have. Therefore, the defence of environmental permits is also treated in a number of ways differently in the environmental code as it stands now. For example, the defense has the opportunity to point out national interests for the defence. If there are other areas that also have national interests, according to the Environmental Code, defence interests should be given priority. It is also the case that non-profit associations such as nature conservation associations cannot appeal when the Swedish Armed Forces request permission in accordance with the Environmental Code. These are quite clear exceptions that are made for the Swedish Armed Forces to ensure national security. Once again: Once the Government Office has completed the Swedish Armed Forces' request, we can give a clearer answer.
i-3520514d1588c072-89	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me when the government intends to take decisions on permits and admissibility for spent nuclear fuel disposals. First of all, I would like to point out that the Council welcomes the decision of Östhammar Municipality to approve a final detention in the municipality. This is an important step in the process, but the issue of the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel is a complex and important issue. It is one of the biggest environmental issues in Sweden ever. Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management AB's application for a system for the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel is examined both in accordance with the Environmental Code and the Act on Nuclear Activities. Applications relate to a coherent system. It includes both the location, i.e. the location, and the method of detention. The applications are handled together, and the government plans to decide on the cases at the same time. Before decisions can be made, the government needs to make a careful assessment. All elements of the coherent system, as well as the system as a whole, need to be examined in detail. It needs to be fully understood that the entire system is safe and lasts for a hundred thousand years. In addition, it is of great importance that the entire trial and process of a repository be carried out in an independent, transparent and transparent manner. It is important for the process and for the acceptance of the future custody that all concerned have a say in the course of the trial. This is why matters are still being prepared within the Council. We are currently analysing whether anything remains to be done regarding the handling of cases under the Environmental Code and the Nuclear Technology Act before the government can make a decision. It is not possible at present to assess when the case will be decided, but the report is a priority and is being carried out as a matter of urgency.
i-3520514d1588c072-96	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Government for the answer to my interpellation. The question of a disposal facility for spent nuclear fuel is important for Sweden as a nuclear nation, but also in order to take care of the previously used nuclear fuel in a responsible manner for future generations, which must be taken care of o intended the attitude towards nuclear energy. In the response given to the interpellation, the Government points out that it is of great importance that the entire examination of and process of a final repository be carried out in an independent, transparent and transparent manner. It is important for the process and for the acceptance of the future custody that everyone should have a say in the course of the trial. That is, of course, something I fully agree with. But is it not exactly that, Mr President, which has been happening now and for a very long time? Work on a final disposal of spent nuclear fuel has been ongoing in Sweden since the 1970s, when the first geological studies on suitable sites were started. During the next decade, type-area surveys were also carried out where a localisation process landed in the fact that Östhammar and Oskarshamn municipalities were suitable candidates. There, preliminary studies and site surveys have been carried out from the 1990s. The respective municipalities have worked to build up competence in the matter and have conducted continuous reviews since then. It is something that, during the process, has included civil society, politicians and expertise and has been characterised by these very things. It has been perfectly possible to visit final disposal facilities for the general public as well. SKB has also submitted reports on research, development and demonstration of nuclear waste management and disposal methods every three years since 1986, i.e. for over 30 years. The report is submitted to the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority for review, whereupon the Authority gives its opinion to the Government. The government then decides whether the industry has implemented its FUD programme in the manner that it is obliged to do. That programme is sent to around fifty organisations where the aim and purpose of this work is to enable an application for a final repository to meet the requirements. The application for the construction of a final repository was submitted in 2011. In addition to the authorities' own experts, the evidence was examined by a large number of consultation bodies, the municipalities concerned, county boards, universities, higher education institutions, environmental organisations and others, all of which have been allowed to say what they think. The State also requested independent international review of the long-term safety after the closure of the nuclear fuel repository, which was carried out by an expert group appointed by the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency. In 2012, it submitted its final report with a good rating. Subsequently, the Radiation Safety Authority and the Land and Environment Court have dealt with this and submitted their respective opinions. The SSM's application for authorisation to build an encapsulation plant and a spent nuclear fuel disposal facility is supported. Corresponding strength was obtained from the Land and Environment Court both in substance and for the site and that it meets the requirements of the Environmental Code. Oskarshamn Municipality has already dealt with this issue in relation to the issue of veto for the encapsulation plant. However, in Östhammar municipality too, the application for final disposal has recently been handled and the veto has been examined. The only obstacle left to move the process forward is for the government to take a decision on admissibility. Yet here we are now giving an answer that almost signals that we would be early in a process, and they tell us what the work should be characterized by. This is a work that has been going on for a very long time. That is why, Mr President, the question is: what is it that the Government and the Government think needs to be examined more closely than what has already happened?
i-2kEueLiwgLUS1LVToKw7zp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the question! I would like to begin by emphasising that, despite the long history described by the honourable Member, these matters came into the government in January 2018. Since in its opinion, the Court requested additional information concerning, inter alia, copper corrosion, Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management was asked to complete its application. That supplement was then referred to. From April to mid-June 2020 the complement was announced. The purpose of the announcement is for everyone to have the opportunity to comment on the cases. Views were received on the announcement that the department is working on. The end-of-life question is complex. It is important that the government takes careful account of all aspects and views. Let me say something about what the applications and dossiers are about. Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management has applied for a permit under the Environmental Code and the Act on Nuclear Activities to installations in a coherent system for the final disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The application for the coherent system includes an encapsulation facility in Oskarshamn municipality and a disposal facility in Forsmark in Östhammar municipality. The application also includes a capacity expansion of the interlayer Clab. The application concerns the final disposal of 12 000 tonnes of spent nuclear fuel about 500 metres down in the bedrock of Östhammar municipality. Just to underline the seriousness of the decision, one can say that every gram of the 12 000 tonnes is so radioactive that contact can cause mortality. Of course, it is extremely important that we are very sure that the decision we make is sustainable over time. Then we are talking about a hundred thousand years, although I am aware that the radioactivity is fading. We listen to our expert authorities, but the decision is on the table of the government. It is the government's task to ensure that the whole trial and the whole process takes place in an independent and transparent manner, that everyone has the opportunity to express their views and that the decision is broadly based. We are, of course, awaiting the LOT attempts that still remain. There, the Radiation Safety Authority will provide an analysis in February 2021 where you will look further at the copper corrosion. That is something that is extremely important to have another factual basis on. We also need to analyse what further processing steps may be needed and the views of the Government's Nuclear Waste Council that have been received. That, of course, is something that we consider.
i-3520514d1588c072-113	Mr President, I would like to A good grade for the work and research that has been carried out on the Swedish model of final care is the fact that another government has already approved it. The final repository that will be built in Finland will be built using the method based on the Swedish KBS3 method, which is the same method as in the application that exists for the final repository to be built in Sweden as well. The application for the construction of the final repository in Finland was submitted in 2012, and in February 2015, Stuk, the Finnish equivalent of the SSM, gave its opinion that they believe that the facility can be built safely. A government decision was taken since November 2015. The Government has also avoided mentioning that the Ministry has had a review team that has already worked on the matter for several years. In Finland, therefore, it took less than three years from the date of the application until the decision was taken by the government. In Sweden we already pass nine years for the corresponding process. It took about nine months for the Finnish Government to make a decision after receiving the evidence from its corresponding expert authority, while we in Sweden have already passed the double time. Instead, there is no possibility or even any kind of guidance about when a decision may come, and everything is very uncertain on the part of the government. And unfortunately, Mr President, that is not an individual exception. Another aspect that means that there is a more distant limit to just how long the decision may take is the fact that there is a risk of being full in the intermediate warehouse, Clab, in Oskarshamn. It is something that would have devastating consequences for the Swedish power supply and supply, where there would be problems with the continued operation of nuclear power plants. Regarding the process that has been in the municipalities, the municipality of Oskarshamn and Östhammar have written a joint letter to the government asking for a timetable and requesting an urgent decision. It is a most reasonable expectation, now that a national responsibility has been taken for a very long time. The government often chooses to lean precisely on the administrative authorities when it comes to various decisions and stresses the importance of this, which was, for example, the subject of debate in the previous interpellation debate. In this case, you choose not to lean directly on your own expert authority, because the Radiation Safety Authority has already approved the application. The Land and Environment Court has said yes to the issues relating to the site, Forsmark, the mountain, the buffer and the environmental impact assessment. Rather, the government undermines the authorities by saying that one should look further at this and that everything is not analysed. It is said that there may be something left and that something may have been missed. That is why, Mr President, I wonder: is the government's expert authorities not to be trusted? Does the Government not think that it would be reasonable to have at least an expectation of when a decision might come?
i-3520514d1588c072-122	Mr President and Mattias Bäckström Johansson! I would like to begin by emphasising that the Finnish decision-making process differs from the Swedish one. In Finland, decisions are made by parliament and authorities, and the Finnish Parliament approved the process at the beginning of the 2000s. The Finnish National Radiation Safety Authority's sister authority, Posiva Radiation Safety Authority, gave the green light in 2016 to start building a final storage facility. In Finland, it is currently believed that the KBS3 method is the only and safest way to dispose of the spent nuclear fuel unless there is a new research that says that one can further develop or use the nuclear fuel again. Here in Sweden we have a slightly different order. In accordance with the Environmental Code and the Nuclear Technology Act, the matter is on the government table. It is also a question of the government taking responsibility for the fact that the decision that is made is something that is sustainable over time. This is the biggest environmental review case in modern times, I would say. At least it's the biggest case at the Ministry of the Environment's table, and it's something that should be sustainable over as long as a hundred thousand years, which is slightly staggering. It is clear that there are technical elements to be considered, but there are also parts dealing with, for example, knowledge transfer over time. It is about very dangerous material in a disposal facility and how to inform future generations of what this is. We can only compare with the pyramids and hieroglyphs and bear in mind that today we do not fully know what is there. We do not know what information the ancient Egyptians left behind. There are many such big, staggering issues that the government now also weighs into the decision. What we also need to be absolutely certain of is that we are taking every step of the process in the right way. There is still an outstanding LOT attempt that the government is awaiting the Radiation Safety Authority's analysis of. As I said, it will come in February 2021. It is in no way unreasonable to wait for it, given the real long-term impact of the matter on the environment and given that we need to be as safe as we can ever be. Regarding the speed with which a timetable can be set, I would like to point out that it is only two weeks ago that the municipal council of Östhammar decided not to use its veto on the matter. The government continues to deal with the matter with the utmost care.
i-3520514d1588c072-128	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I thank the Government for the debate. It is important that the process is conducted independently, transparently and transparently. Of course, we share that view on the part of the Swedish democrats. But we believe that it is something that has been done for a long time and in a way that also impresses globally. As has been said, I welcome the fact that the Government and Government are saying that they are working to approve the application for spent fuel disposal and that this is a priority and is being carried out urgently. What concerns me, however, is that in everything else that is said beyond these very words, it is rather signaled the opposite. It is also important that decisions be taken in this type of case, which is somewhere where we are, particularly in the light of the long and transparent preparation of the case. The strength of the government's own expert authority is there, and as mentioned earlier, the Land and Environment Court has said yes to the issues relating to the site, the mountain, the buffer and the environmental impact assessment. There is also a review team at the Ministry of the Environment that has worked with the case for several years. As I said, the work has been carried out for decades in both the municipality of Östhammar and Oskarshamn, and you feel that you are in goal with their respective processes. That is why we think it is reasonable somewhere to be able to give information on a timetable or a reasonable expectation. We think that it is under any criticism that we should not leave this, because there is a need for some kind of information here. It is important to move forward on the issue of a disposal facility, and it is important to be able to take responsibility for dealing with the nuclear fuel used in the past. My view and that of the Swedish Democrats is that we are there. Mr President, I would like to The last issue is that the government should take decisions on the issue of permits and admissibility for the final disposal of nuclear fuel as a matter of urgency. It'll have to be taken with the Government as a contribution from our side.
i-3520514d1588c072-134	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Commissioner, once again for the question. It is important to emphasise that the Government will examine both the parts of the applications and the coherent system and in a very long time perspective. These are two major dossiers under two different legislations. It is important that, as far as absolutely possible, we can ensure that the coherent system and the various elements of this system are good enough to move forward. The Government deals with the matter as efficiently and promptly as possible.
i-3520514d1588c072-137	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati has asked me, firstly, whether I interpret the ownership policy of state-owned companies so that it is appropriate for managements in these companies to take the lead in contract shopping which leads to a sharp deterioration in employee pension conditions and, secondly, whether it is my assessment that the time for a comprehensive and potentially conflict-filled rescheduling of the contract terms is appropriate in Infranord with regard to the coronapandemin and the ongoing major processes surrounding the organisation of railway maintenance. Mr President, I would like to We protect the Swedish model where employees' and employers' organisations enter into agreements on the terms and conditions of the labour market. It has improved the conditions for both employees and employers and helped to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. Companies with state ownership must act long-term, efficient and profitable and be given the ability to develop. Furthermore, in the State's ownership policy, the Government demands that the companies act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. In this work, it is of particular importance to the government that the state-owned companies work for a healthy and safe working environment and good and decent working conditions. The Government continuously monitors the work of state-owned companies in this area, including through ownership dialogues. A prerequisite for state-owned companies to contribute to economic efficiency and competitiveness throughout the country is that the state applies good corporate governance, so also in a period of uncertainty caused by, for example, the coronapandemine. Against this background, the company's board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs and the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations. This responsibility includes the choice of employer's organisation as well as the timing of this. Through the government's ownership policy, the government has tightened the requirements for state-owned companies in several important areas in order for the companies to lead the way to long-term sustainable value creation, including through increased demands on fair terms in the supply chain. It is a work that we will continue to follow.
i-3520514d1588c072-142	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Industry for the answer – in a sense a fairly clear answer that unfortunately illustrates a lack of interest on the part of the government in taking responsibility for active and competent state ownership. Unfortunately, the Minister is also not willing to discuss, or even have an idea of, some important developments in Swedish business and working life. I find that regrettable. Mr President, I would like to So my question was about, or was based on, the most legitimately owned company Infranord. It is a company which, in itself, is a product of the liberalisation and fragmentation of the Swedish railway sector which – unfortunately, I would say – has taken place in recent decades and has given rise to a great deal of problems of coordination and efficiency. Today's discussion is about the conditions for employees, but I think it is important to also highlight the broader context, because this is a type of activity where politics and social interests play a big role however one twists and turns it around. Infranord's management – which is therefore on behalf of the owner, the state, through the Ministry of Enterprise – announced some time ago that it intended to change the employer's organisation, from the Almega Service Companies, to the Construction Companies, BF, and thus also to change collective agreements. Since I wrote the interpellation and until now, when the Minister replies with some delay, the exchange has also been carried out. Trade in employers' organisations, as I also point out in the interpellation, is not something that needs to be remarkable in itself. That could also be a good thing. In this case, however, it is quite clear that a decision has been taken primarily to reduce future pension conditions for a large part of the company's workforce, and that by a rather drastic method. I am not going to go into all the details here, but it is in principle a matter of the fact that under the current contractual relationship there are common solutions for both LO and civil servants, while under a new regime there will be worse conditions for the workers' collective – unless this is explicitly re-regulated in a special employee agreement, which is not currently available as a construction by the employers' organisation, BF. I can understand, of course, that the Minister for Economic Affairs says that it is freedom of association in Sweden and that it is up to the management of the company to make decisions on this issue. That's correct in principle. But the point here is that this is not just an ordinary management decision on which association you like to be in, but a strategic decision to reduce future costs through a deterioration of pension conditions and also by in practice breaking a wedge between different occupational groups within the same company that has previously fought for common contractual terms in this regard. It is therefore a rather clear principled approach to how companies and businesses should act on these kinds of issues. In that light, it will be quite remarkable and, to be honest, perhaps a little disheartening to hear a Social Democratic minister respond with bureaucratic words about sustainable enterprise, to enjoy public confidence and ongoing follow-up through ownership dialogues. I shall therefore have to repeat my first question in the interpellation in order for the Minister to have the opportunity to develop his answer a little closer, beyond these rather fluffy words. If these words are not to be completely empty, it is probably necessary for the Minister to try to explain whether he believes that the ownership policy of state companies should be interpreted in such a way that it is appropriate for managements of these companies to take the lead in contract shopping, which can lead to a significant deterioration in employee pension conditions.
i-3520514d1588c072-149	Mr President, I would like to I have the deepest respect for the parliamentary scrutiny power. I also have great respect for Ali Esbati. It's a serious person. Nevertheless, I find it remarkable that Ali Esbati is trying to take party political points by spreading things that have not actually happened and are actually not true either. True, Infranord's management wants to switch to another employer organisation. You feel that it is more natural with the Construction companies as there are not so many companies of this kind in the Almega Services companies. However, as an experienced Member of Parliament, Ali Esbati should know by now that when to do such a thing one must negotiate with the employee party, in this case Seko. Seko and its trade unions, which of course also have written to the Ministry of Enterprise, do exactly what they should do: they should represent their members, and they do so in a good way. Then a negotiation takes place, and that negotiation has not even begun. Ali Esbati will then be in Parliament's speaker's chair and will share information that worse conditions have already been decided. It's not like that. It is important that the facts are right. I think there are a lot of people listening to us, and then it is important – especially in such important matters – that we do not try to spread things that are not true for party political purposes. The process has not begun. Let me also be very clear: no, it is not fluffy or bureaucratic sentences. It is a real ownership policy based on the directives issued by the Riksdag on how we should govern the state companies. It is also something that we have tightened up during the time of the S-led government. Not only should we act exemplaryly, but we should also make greater demands to ensure fair conditions for those who work in companies. We have done this not only on the basis of an ideological conviction that it is important to have strong social partners who are working out the right conditions because it is good for the workers, because that is what it is. I am also absolutely convinced that it is good for the companies in our country that we have this system and that people when they are well and safe also work much better. Right-hand idea of worse conditions, hungry-wolves-hunting-best-theory, I don't believe. So to be very clear, Mr President: State ownership policy applies. We place quite high demands, both on being an example and on contributing to decent conditions. And no, I would never help, as Ali Esbati claims, to engage in some form of contract shopping in the sense of reducing employees' conditions. We are calling for these requirements and for a fairly continuous dialogue with the forty state-owned companies that we have, in order to be able to help each other and continue to develop decent conditions – not only on the basis of what exists in the companies but also on the basis of what I have mentioned here about acting exemplaryly. It is clear that this is also an important signal to the rest of the labour market.
i-3520514d1588c072-156	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that the Minister for Economic Affairs had written his first speech without having heard what I actually said in my speech. I said, speaking of what the facts are, that this is something that will happen if it is not explicitly re-regulated in a special employee agreement, which does not exist today as a construction of the employers' organisation to which Infranord's management has acceded. It is, of course, possible to discuss why this has been done. My assessment coincides with the assessment of many trade union stakeholders, namely that they have done so precisely in order to change the design of employee contracts and occupational pensions. This is what there is a conflict around. I don't expect the Minister of Economic Affairs to be a contracting party here and go in and negotiate with the union on the ground. However, I do expect the Minister for Economic Affairs to have more than very unbinding views on how state ownership should be carried out. It is, I believe, important that the state has clear views on the principles of state ownership and how it should express itself in reality – principles that go beyond saying that ownership should be an example without making any comments when the management of a concrete business behaves in a way that can be anything but an example to other companies. I also note that the Minister, both in the reply he read out and in his first speech, discusses this as if it were a question of any company. This is not the case, but it is in practice a part of the possibility to carry out railway maintenance in a good way in Sweden. I think this is one of the more obvious examples, outside health care, school and care, where one sees problems that can arise if social infrastructure is cut up and partly commercialised. There has been plenty of evidence of how problematic it has been that important skills and experience are disseminated in such a way that it does not come to the most effective use, and there are situations of disclaimer rather than joint action to ensure that rail transport and the important maintenance of the railways work. All this could be discussed on another occasion, but I note that during the last parliamentary term there was a rather limited interest from the Social Democrats in fulfilling the electoral promise on nationalisation of railway maintenance. Now this has been investigated, and reasonably great changes are expected in this area – or at least discussions and draft battles on how to do it. Then we come to my second question: is it the Minister's assessment that the opportunity for a comprehensive and potentially conflict-filled rescheduling of the terms of one of the central companies, Infranord, is appropriate, in the light of the forthcoming process, which has also been complicated by the coronapndemin?
i-3520514d1588c072-163	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who wants to see exactly what Ali Esbati or for that matter I myself say can always read the Minutes. In fact, Ali Esbati claimed that it had already happened. And it has not; he anticipates a process that is well established. Although Ali Esbati has not conducted such negotiations, I have done so myself, on the ground – but of course before I became Minister of Education, at the time, and subsequently Minister of Industry. We have the order that when a company, in this case a management, wants to make a change, it must conduct trade union negotiations. Then it is also natural – and in this case, I think that good work is being done on the workers' organisation – that you are upholding the conditions of your members; that is what you should do. If the aim, as we are discussing here, were to reduce, as it were, the working conditions of workers, that would be one thing. If the aim is different, it is clear that it will be shown in the negotiations that will now be conducted but which have not even begun. It is against this background that I react strongly when trying to spread other images in this House. These are, of course, very important issues. Pension and other conditions are, of course, extremely central to workers, and it is therefore important that the facts are correct. No, Ali Esbati, I think everyone who looked at me saw that I didn't even look down at my paper. It wasn't prescribed. I believe that these are basically my well-known values and opinions: I would never, based on the state's ownership policy, contribute to some form of contract shopping in the sense of worsening for the employees. However, it is always possible to discuss what Ali Esbati is asking about: the timing. We have an ongoing coronapandemia, with everything it means. There are a lot of discussions about railway maintenance. It can be said that there has been no government in the history of the country that has invested so much in rail maintenance in modern times and in strengthening the Swedish railways. We will continue to do so because it is necessary. It is clear that there are also problems with how this is organised. It is against this background that we have set up the investigation, and it is also being worked on at the Department of Infrastructure. If Ali Esbati wants to discuss this in greater depth, I am happy to refer him to a discussion also with the Minister for Infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to We are in a rather difficult time. Of course, one can always ask whether everything else should be put aside while we fight the pandemic. I think that would be a mistake. We will fight the pandemic and do our utmost to ensure that the employees are safe and the operations work. At the same time, however, we must not stand still as a society. We must also ensure that we are able to address issues that we will have to resolve in the long term. And, of course, we also need to continue to implement the normal processes that are required by law and regulation to implement and which we also want, namely that before making such major changes, we must discuss, negotiate and agree between employers' and employees' partners. This usually applies, and my signal to the Swedish business community in general is that we must continue to work on. We must not allow ourselves to be crippled by this pandemic.
i-3520514d1588c072-171	Mr President, I would like to I believe that both I and the Minister for Economic Affairs are fundamentally aware of what we agree on, namely that negotiations between the parties should be conducted precisely by the parties, with regard to most things in the labour market – as details of how to regulate things in agreements. We also both know that these agreements are always concluded in a context, in a tension relationship with different forces that pull in different directions. In this case, one party is a state-owned company, and there it matters what signals come from the owner and what interpretations the owner makes of the principles it sets itself for the state activities – hence also my interpellation and this discussion. In the past, I have had discussions with the representatives of the Minister for Economic Affairs on the very things he himself mentioned as progress in this area, such as a fairer policy on subcontractors. It is good if progress can be made in this area, and I am happy to contribute to this, although it is of course often the trade unions who are at the forefront of pointing out these kinds of problems in reality and working for them to get different kinds of political expression. This is for me about how one sees the possibility of doing an effective job in state-owned companies and where one invests the gunpowder, so to speak, in order to save money and make it more efficient. We may have to come back to this. I fully agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs on one thing: we should not stand still as a society while the pandemic rages, but in all areas where we are involved we should do the best we can to improve the society and working conditions of the people who are out in society doing the job today.
i-3520514d1588c072-176	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ali Esbati. We are in complete agreement on this. I also believe that we basically agree that we should have order and order in the Swedish labour market and the right conditions. It is against this background that I am reacting, because the whole question is prematurely raised, especially if there is the impression that decisions would already have been taken on the deterioration of employees or that the change of employer's organisation would have been made in the sense of reducing the number of employees. The management of Infranord announced on 22 October, a few weeks ago, that it intends to do so. On the Swedish labour market, we have the order to negotiate with the workers' organisations what the conditions should be like thereafter. When we agree on this, we also know what it looks like. These are not just fluff, as Ali Esbati claims, or bureaucratic words, but are actual instructions: state companies should set an example. They will work to both operate as efficiently as possible, because it is about taxpayers' money, and do so in a way that contributes to order and the right conditions on the Swedish labour market. That is the case today, and if there is anything we have seen over the last five or six years with the S-led government, it is that there has been swifter and more progress here. This is important, because we all know what it looks like in the world around us. Then it is important that we show that this is not only good and fair for the employees but also good for how the Swedish working life and the Swedish model works: Our companies become more competitive because they have the right conditions for the employees.
i-3520514d1588c072-180	Mr President, I would like to Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I will act to make the payment of state grants subject to stricter conditions under the regulation( 2018:118) for state grants to municipalities and regions to reduce and counteract segregation. Ludvig Aspling has also asked me how I view the risk of state subsidies being paid in a way that can be assumed to confirm and reinforce standards and notions based on honour, and whether I am taking any steps to prevent this from happening. Finally, Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I will act to ensure that in future Delmos will always recover State grants where they fund projects that are manifestly contrary to the purpose of the grant. Let me begin by pointing out that public funding should only go to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society, as formulated in the Constitution and in the international conventions on human rights. For this reason, the Government continuously follows the application of state grants in various areas and, if necessary, implements necessary changes to the regulations governing the grant. Reducing and counteracting segregation requires long-term work by a wide range of actors. Action of a cross-sectoral nature as well as action in individual areas is needed. Government grants to municipalities, regions and civil society organisations are an important tool for developing and strengthening this work. Delmos distributes state grants with support in two regulations. Both Regulations provide for the possibility for the Authority to recover funds if it appears that they have been used for a purpose other than that specified in the application. I assume that the Authority will also take recovery decisions in the event of such a situation. K winners and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. The government's starting point is that a gender perspective should be taken into account in all policies that affect people's lives, so that all women and men, girls and boys can live equal lives. For the government, the work against honour-related violence and repression is also a high priority. The standards of honour that justify and motivate honour-related violence and oppression must be combated, and we need to strengthen knowledge and competence in several areas of society. In his question, Ludvig Aspling refers to activities carried out in the municipality of Nyköping. As a minister, I cannot comment on individual cases and, therefore, the examination of individual grant cases is a matter for the authority that has paid out the funds.
i-3520514d1588c072-185	Mr President, I would like to In August this year Nyköping Municipality signed an agreement with a private company called Urban Development to implement what they call a civil dialogue for a round sum of just over half a million SEK. This is financed 90 percent by the Swedish Agency for Growth, and the aim of the project is to counteract segregation in a particular residential area. The project has been highlighted for several reasons. One is the obviously unfair cost. The service provided by the company does not really consist of more than a couple of meetings with people living in this residential area. These are things that associations do completely free of charge all the time. My own right-of-occupancy association had a meeting this summer. It was financed with zero crowns from the public. None of us have ever thought about asking for tax money to meet and talk to each other or to Sollentuna Municipality, but we might think a little old-fashioned, what do I know? Another reason is that the municipality chose to conduct the meeting under strict gender segregation, i.e. that men and women were not allowed to be in the same place at the same time. The company explains that decision like this: For example, a large proportion of the residents come from Somalia, and knowledge of Somali culture is valuable. We have worked with dialogues in several residential areas with a large proportion of residents originating from Somalia. Experience from this is that it has sometimes been beneficial to have separate dialogues for men and women in order to achieve a more even gender representation. Or, as the civil rights opponents in the American South used to say, separate but equal. Apart from the fact that this is contrary to the Government's own objective of gender equality, part of which is that women and men must be able to participate on the same terms in informal decision-making, it completely misses the purpose of the Growth Agency's mission, which is to counteract segregation. Part of that problem is that non-Europeanly born women have a weak position in the Swedish labour market. We both know this very well. Research in this area, including a meta-study from Linnaeus University, shows that cultural norms and ideas from the home country are a strong contributor to the weaker position of women born outside Europe in the labour market. The fact that at this point the government chooses to use tax money to reinforce and confirm these standards is almost unimaginable. After all, this is counterproductive to the very purpose of state subsidies. I would therefore like the Government to explain how she has thought of a more general plan. Of course, the Government cannot go in and review an individual decision, but let us keep the discussion at an overall level. I wonder, for example, if a municipality believes that people from Somalia are unable to hold a civil dialogue in the same way as everyone else does, that is, without receiving millions of crowns in support, that this is a reasonable conclusion. I think that is completely unreasonable. I think people from Somalia can hold meetings just like everyone else, without outside help. It's just me. Does the Government consider it reasonable for government authorities to use tax money to confirm and strengthen standards and notions based on honor? It is also a very important issue.
i-3520514d1588c072-194	Mr President, I would like to On the first question, I can answer absolutely and definitely no. We should not have tax funds going to activities that reinforce honor standards. Our goal in the government is to fight the standards of honour, to fight the standards that underlie oppression where women and girls do not have power over their own lives. We also see boys suffering from this oppression, and LGBTQ young people can be very vulnerable. We see girls with disabilities, as the organisation Tris, for example, has highlighted, who are very vulnerable when they live in an honorary context. Our work and our tax resources should go towards combating standards of honour, not strengthening them. That was one question. If I understood correctly, the second question was whether tax funds can be used to conduct civil dialogues. I think that municipalities and government activities of various kinds need to have a live dialogue with the people who live in the country. You can do that in a variety of ways. I think that the municipality may not have been present at the MP's right-of-occupancy association meeting because it was not that kind of meeting, but there may be other meetings where I think the municipality needs to be involved in meeting citizens and listening to what they think is important and what needs to be developed and improved in the municipality. I believe that this is a fundamental and important democratic task. As a municipality, you can of course run this business in your own right – that is, to have an active dialogue through employees in the municipality – but I am not opposed to the use of companies as well. We have a free business community that has a lot of expertise in various issues. If you want to take advantage of it, it can also be a way of running civil dialogues. Overall and generally speaking, it's my entrance. I think it is important to have a dialogue with the citizens of the municipality, and I think it is extremely important that there should not be a single krona of tax on activities that threaten equality and human rights and that want to push back developments in this area.
i-3520514d1588c072-199	Mr President, I would like to The Government is very clear about whether tax funds should go to activities that risk strengthening notions of honor – I really appreciate that. However, if you look at the regulations that the government has issued in this area, you can see that the clear position that the Government comes up with is not really reflected in the regulatory framework that the Government has decided on. The regulation governing this particular grant is the regulation(2018:151) on state aid to municipalities with socio-economically disadvantaged areas. Pursuant to Paragraph 3 of this Regulation, grants are to be used for measures to strengthen economic and social development in these areas or for the development of a comprehensive plan to strengthen the economic and social development of these disadvantaged areas. An overall problem with how the government chooses to formulate this is that it is far too vague. What a municipality thinks kind of falls under this definition. It could be pretty much anything. I've been in the city council myself before. I don't know if the government has the same experience, but I suspect that's the case. We who have done this know that in Sweden, unfortunately, sometimes it can be a little bit like this and so with the municipal administration, if we are to be honest. I am not pointing my finger at any particular party. Regardless of who controls the municipalities in the country, they do not always have an iron check on everything. If a regulation is issued which allows the municipalities to use the money for almost anything, without any real conditions whatsoever, then the result can be expected. That's why I'm putting this interpellation. I wonder if the rules could be tightened up. For example, one condition could be that money should not be used in a way that is not in line with respect for gender equality. There are also a number of other conditions that could be discussed. It may be that one must not respect and reinforce notions based on honor, which we have talked about, or some other kind of deviation. But this is not included in the regulation. I therefore wonder whether the Government agrees that there may be a need for a tightening up of the regulatory framework and clarification on the part of the Government in order to steer this activity a little better.
i-3520514d1588c072-204	Mr President, I would like to I think that we should always be open to see if we can improve regulations of various kinds and see if we need to be clearer. We have, among other things, an investigation that has reviewed specific conditions for democracy with regard to contributions to civil society and which has submitted a report on how to tighten conditions. I think it is welcome that we are looking at these issues in terms of human rights and gender equality, for example. We'll always be open to it. Grants should not be allocated to activities that enhance inequality, for example. It is about basic starting points in society. Tax revenue should not go to this. What I think is an important part of this, when we talk about the municipal level, is that we also need to think about the follow-up. It is one thing to make demands, but one question that I think we always have reason to think more about is: How do we follow up? We are calling for the funds to go to certain types of activities and for them to absolutely not go to activities that threaten human rights. But how do we follow up on the fact that the funds actually go to what they are supposed to do? Here you can think about different things. Of course, we need order in our government agencies. We can also consider whether there may be a need for increased support for municipalities in the follow-up of grants. Can we develop that work in different ways? I believe that this is an important issue to bear with regard to tax resources. We must always have control systems. Then, of course, they should be weighed against what resources it requires to follow up, but follow-up is an important issue that I would like to highlight in the discussion that we have in this House.
i-3520514d1588c072-208	Mr President, I would like to I believe that at an overall level the problem is this: segregation is not something that has arisen by chance in Sweden, but segregation is a built-in and inevitable consequence of integration policy. Integration policy in Sweden is based on the freedom of choice and the equality objective. The goal of freedom of choice means that everyone as an immigrant should decide for themselves how much of the Swedish culture they want to embrace. The equality objective simply means that people should have an equal standard of living and equal access to the welfare system and equal rights in general regardless of how much of the Swedish they choose to take in. This means that a lot of people choose not to integrate themselves into Sweden, not to learn Swedish, not to make themselves employable and so on. In other words, segregation is an inevitable consequence of the decisions taken by the government. Solving this with a bag of money is pointless. Instead of going in and changing the basic assumptions and theoretical starting points on integration policy, which is the real problem, it has been said: now we are taking a large bag of money, which we are throwing at this problem. Then we hope it will work out. That's why we get projects like this that are completely unfair. It is quite obvious that this will not lead to a break-up of segregation in this area in Nyköping. I see that as quite obvious. So the problem is much bigger. I wonder whether the government should give some thought to the basics of integration policy rather than spend money afterwards on a problem that it has created itself.
i-3520514d1588c072-214	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that I and Ludvig Aspling have completely different starting points and analyses of the problems we see. The single most important factor driving segregation is economic divides. Then you may think that economic gaps are good, and you may think that they are bad. I am one of the politicians who believe that greater equality is something that benefits everyone in society, not just those who have the toughest things, but all of us. If we really want to counteract segregation, we should tackle the economic divides. It is about housing segregation, school segregation, etcetera, but not least about the gaps. Integration and segregation are different things, but of course there are links between them. The segregation we have in society today, of course, reinforces the shortcomings in integration. It makes it difficult for people to enter society and to contribute. Of course, it is extremely serious that this is the case. But there are several things we need to do to improve integration. Working on segregation issues is an extremely important part. It is about welcoming people in a good way and not talking about people from other countries in negative terms, for example. It is about believing in man, believing in the potential of individual people and ensuring that they are better able to get out to work. We are not doing a good enough job when it comes to women born abroad. We need to make better use of their knowledge and skills and to give them ways into the labour market – this is a concrete example. We also need to work against school segregation. It is incredibly serious when it comes to our children's growing-up conditions. Children in Sweden today have different opportunities to get a good schooling. So there are many different issues that we need to work on here. I would be happy to discuss segregation issues further. One of our biggest social problems is that people live separately, that people have different growing conditions and that life expectancy differs between different areas of the same city. There we really have a job to do with increasing equality and giving all people in Sweden, not least our children, good growing-up conditions.
