i-ebaa496a384116ee-0	Madam President, I would like There are no excuses for a government that has spent six years in power explaining the strained situation of law enforcement authorities. On the other hand, there are conscious political decisions made by a responsible government that explain why reality looks like it does. The government's lack of interest in law and order has gone like a red thread through the entire government's ownership. We have seen a state of crisis within the Swedish police, under-financing by the Swedish courts and under-financing by the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, and not least, we now have a prison service that has gone up in staff mode due to a significant lack of space in our institutions. This means that the situation is so serious that the prison service's ability to complete the basic mission and maintain security for inmates and staff is under threat. Now it is again up to the opposition to put pressure on a government that lacks its own momentum and policy to take Sweden forward.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-3	Madam President, I would like The Swedish judiciary is currently undergoing the largest expansion, the most radical modernisation and the most extensive renovation in many years. It is of course about the police: 10 000 more employees to 2024, new technology, extensive expansion of camera surveillance and new police training in Borås and Malmö, brand new. The police have had renovated and expanded premises in a number of locations: Luleå, Lidköping, Uppsala, Falun, Umeå, Uddevalla, Gothenburg– yes, even the police house in Eslöv has received a facelift in recent years. The latest is the new, large police station in Rinkeby. It is about the police, about the courts and about thorough modernisation and investment in modern technology and security. New court buildings are in place in Lund and Nacka, and new ones are under way in Hudiksvall, Norrköping, Malmö and Jönköping. Re- and extensions have taken place or are underway in Helsingborg, Eskilstuna and Kalmar, just to name a few places. But above all, it is about the prison service, which is the subject of today's debate. It has also grown very quickly in recent years. Now the fight against crime is under way. More and more perpetrators are being arrested and sentenced to prison, and the sentences have been raised. Last year, Swedish courts sentenced a total of over 10 600 prison years. That's an increase of 30% in two years. It's filled up the prisons. We have tightened the penalty for serious gun crimes, where the suspect is now automatically detained pending judgment, and this has also filled up the detention centres. We now have 1 000 more detainees than three years ago. As a result, we have also had to take decisions there on a large number of new investments to catch up. The detention centres in Malmö, Huddinge, Helsingborg, Stockholm and Gothenburg have been renovated, and several of them have been expanded. We have opened a new prison in Östersund. We have expanded the facility Skenäs outside Norrköping. We have, of course, also made sure in these years that all these investments in the prison system have been given money. This is a good thing, and we will continue to do so. Unfortunately, we lost momentum in 2018, when the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats pushed through their draft budget during the time we were in transitional government. These three right-wing parties' budget decision in 2018 meant that the correctional services were underfunded by over SEK 300 million, and this would have led to extensive closures. Now we were able to return as a government in January 2019, and the first thing we had to do then was, together with the Center and Liberals, restore the prison services resources and add additional money. Only in 2019, we strengthened K. Correctional Services with nearly half a billion SEK, so that you could proceed with your expansion plans. Then we could once again say to the Correctional Service: Drive on with your plans and continue the extensions! Then came also new, large structural decisions on new, large institutions in Trelleborg and Kalmar, new detention centre in Kristianstad, further expansion of the detention centre in Helsingborg, large and long-awaited renovation and extension of the institution in Tidaholm, expansion of the Hallanstalten outside Södertälje and much more. On the table of Parliament is now our draft budget, where we are providing an additional SEK 2 1⁄2 billion in increased funding for the coming years. We are thus expanding, but we must also continue to invest in the quality of Swedish prison services. Swedish penitentiary is one of the best in the world, I would say. Relapses in crime are consistently decreasing and have been doing so for 20 years. That's a good result. It is a fine sign that all the fantastic work that the prison service employees do every day is of great importance. We must now ensure that this continues in the years to come. With this, Madam President, I look forward to a good debate this afternoon.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-9	Madam President, I would like As everyone knows, we have a serious situation in Sweden with escalating gang crime. The shootings have been at very high levels for several years and this year they have increased by 20 percent from the already high levels. It is already clear today that 2020 will unfortunately be another dark record year when it comes to shootings and gang crime in Sweden. When gang criminals move their positions forward, law-abiding citizens are allowed to withdraw. That is why this is not just a question of law, but ultimately a question of freedom. Crime limits the freedom of ordinary people to live the life they want. There are so many people in this country who wonder what has happened to Sweden and who do not recognize themselves anymore. They don't want it to be this way. I would like to say to them: you are absolutely right. It doesn't have to be like this either. It is possible to change this country and make things better again. We Moderates have proposed a wide range of pattern-breaking reforms to strengthen the whole legal chain. It is about more police officers, new police tools to clear up more crimes, increased penalties and increased resources for the whole legal chain. Madam President, I would like An important part of that work is the prison service. There, too, we have been able to see very serious shortcomings in recent times. An authority that's forced into staff mode and places that aren't enough-- that's really not good. But it is not surprising, because the fact is that there are fewer places in Swedish institutions today compared to ten years ago. That's why prisons are full. And the average population of institutions was also higher in 2010, ten years ago, than today. That is to say, the problem is not that the government would have been particularly successful in prosecuting more people, but there are other reasons for the lack of space, despite the fact that the population of this country has increased by almost 1 million people since then and gang crime has escalated. This requires a completely different policy. Several thousand new places will be required in prisons in the coming years. We from the Moderates have proposed a special unit linked to young gang criminals, so that they do not relapse into crime. It will require more transfers of foreign citizens to other countries and a wide range of other things. But that, Madam President, will not happen by itself. This requires a completely new political direction in the Swedish government.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-17	Madam President, I would like One can look back on the draft budgets that have been debated over the years for the judiciary. The Swedish Democrats have been the party that has taken responsibility for the whole legal chain in terms of both the funds allocated and the measures that need to be taken. When other parties have invested in the police, the Swedish Democrats have also invested in the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish courts and the Prison Service. It is taking responsibility for a political populism that for the smallest possible crown wants to get as much media exchange as possible. We have seen this from the government and other parties that have made moves and initiatives around the Swedish police but left the rest of the legal chain to its fate. The Swedish democrats will continue to take responsibility for a broader political debate, and it is now high time that the opposition put a lot of pressure on the government on Swedish penitentiary. We need more prisons and more detention centres than the government has announced, and this needs to happen at a faster rate than the government has planned. We also need to ensure that the third of foreigners who are admitted to our institutions annually check into institutions in their own countries. For too long, Sweden has been exploited by other countries that have allowed their citizens to serve sentences in our institutions. There are good conditions with signed agreements within Europe that regulate that foreigners should serve sentences in the home countries. But the political will of the government to stand up for Sweden and face up to costs arising from crimes committed by foreigners in Sweden has been completely lacking. We need to think new. How can Sweden use a European institution capacity to deal with temporary overcrowding? Can the very distance to a European prison more effectively break down a criminal identity and perhaps act as a deterrent? The Swedish Democrats stand ready to test these issues in order to develop Swedish penitentiary care. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a government that develops the prison system in a conservative direction. The focus must be shifted from perpetrator to victim. We propose that victims of crime should have increased influence over when and where prisoners should receive leave. Victims of crime should also be able to deny inmates leave. We want the execution of sentences to be fundamentally changed and the current two-thirds release to be completely abolished. Early release must be properly justified. We need to ensure that Swedish institutions with high-quality content are reserved for residents who are not to be expelled. Foreigners who are to be expelled will primarily serve sentences in their own countries. If that is impossible, we must find a truly unattractive and descaled alternative to our Swedish institutions. Madam President, I would like There are things to do, and there have been proposals and policies on the table. But we have not seen a government that has been driven by its own will to solve Sweden's problems.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-27	Madam President, I would like Correctional services are an essential part of the legal chain, and far too little attention has been paid to justice policy in recent years. Perhaps that is why we have ended up where we are today with a penitentiary that is, if not in crisis, at least in a serious situation. As I look through previous debates on the penal system, I can see that I was already aware of the lack of maintenance and the risks involved. Decommissioned prisons are bad prisons. Overcrowded institutions are dangerous prisons. In the situation that has arisen, the risks to both the inmates and the staff have increased. Relapse prevention work is less effective than it would have to be. And, Madam President, the prevention of relapse should be our primary focus. Prison punishment is about punishing anyone who violates the rules that we should jointly apply in democratic processes, but it is also about forcing people who have fallen home to crime to break a destructive lifestyle and find their way back to an honest life. In these contexts, I always remind you of the enormous value of succeeding in breaking the criminal path. Most important, of course, are the victims of crime. Successful relapse prevention means that fewer people become victims. The damage they suffer from crime is a burden to be borne by the whole of society. We will all stand up and stand by the victim of crime or who is at risk of being exposed. The fact is, the convicted person himself has a huge amount to gain by succeeding in getting out of a criminal lifestyle. Being a criminal is putting yourself at great risk. Criminals are, of course, at risk of being themselves subjected to crime. But research also shows that criminals are to a far greater extent affected by both diseases and accidents than others. The criminal way of life makes it difficult, not to say impossible, for criminals to have functional relationships and live a safe and developing life with people they care about and who care about. It is also a particularly good socio-economic affair to succeed in causing a criminal to stop being a criminal and instead engage in the legal creation of value. The costs are enormous. We could probably spend much more on measures aimed at precisely this and still make a profit. The budgetary issue is not rarely raised in these contexts – we have already heard it. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. It is not possible to just squeeze more money into the system and believe that you automatically get more business. Something else is needed, something in between. It is a question of having driving forces so that you use the resources well and so that you do the right things with them. You can call it leadership, and perhaps in many parts of our public administration there has been a lack of good leadership.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-35	Madam President, I would like I am extremely concerned about the situation in prison, especially for all employees. I am thinking of everyone who works in prisons, where overcrowding is a serious issue for the working environment. It's getting dangerous for the employees and the clients, but I have a solution. As a solution to this major problem, the Left Party proposes that persons who are not convicted of sexual or violent crimes, who have undergone treatment programmes and who have six months or less of their sentence should begin to serve the parole early. This would involve about 1 500 seats and would mean that 30% of the inmates today would begin their parole. Of course, the prison staff should make a special examination of whether it is appropriate for the person to be released a couple of months prematurely. Electronic monitoring and rock-hard control are carried out as usual by the care provider. If you don't behave, you're going back to jail. In such a serious situation, policy must deliver concrete solutions. The Left Party takes that responsibility. The government has not delivered realistic solutions. After several years of comments from the prison services on overcrowding and renovation needs, the government has instead done everything to fill the already worn-out institutions. Punishment has been extended without knowing exactly why and without caring what effect it will have on the prison services. It is directly irresponsible, and now we are here today. There are other longer-term solutions when it comes to overcrowding, such as building modular buildings, such as the institution in Skenäs. And it is cost-effective to build large institutions, as the National Audit Office proposes. What is really needed is a conversion of the entire prison system to doing what works, and it is not to lock people up for long sentences. It is to build up sentences in freedom, which I have been pushing for many years and which the prison services are asking for. Here you go, government – another solution to a serious situation!
i-ebaa496a384116ee-41	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are determined to fight serious organised crime. This requires the removal of leading figures from the criminal environment and the restoration of confidence in the rule of law through the administration of justice and the restoration of victims. To achieve this, there is a need for capacity in prisons and prisons in prison. The prison service today is under a lot of strain. It's full. There are 2,200 convicted people waiting for the sentence to be executed. The number of days you can wait has doubled from 50 to 100, causing obvious problems. Correctional services estimate that at least 5,750 detention centres and 2,640 detention centres will be required by 2029. However, it is likely that the need for a place will be even greater when the efforts on the police have an impact and when the penalties are tightened for a number of crimes. As crime developments in recent years have been very negative with more serious crimes, more criminals will have to spend considerably longer in prison. There are no shortcuts here, Madam President. Long-term expansion is needed. But there is the problem here and now, and then more needs to be done to free up capacity in the short term too. The Christian Democrats believe that foreigners convicted of crime in Sweden are to a much greater extent to serve their sentences in their home countries. Capacity is very strained, and 30 per cent of the prisoners in Swedish prisons are foreign citizens. The fact that more people are serving their sentences in their home countries is necessary both to relieve the capacity of the prison system and to reduce the cost of doing penitentiary work. It also has a positive effect in facilitating expulsion. Criminals in other countries are not the responsibility of Sweden. In order to relieve the burden of the prison service, prisons should also be rented abroad, which the Christian Democrats are investing heavily in our shadow budget. According to our proposal, the penal services may conclude agreements with the recipient countries. It should also be possible for the K. Correctional Service to conclude agreements with third countries to serve sentences in that country if deemed appropriate. Whether agreements are concluded with home or third countries, humanitarian and legal conditions, such as the principle of non-refoulement, must of course be taken into account. The whole of the judiciary needs to be strengthened. Statskontoret has concluded that in few policy areas, government agencies are so dependent on each other as within the legal chain. There must be no bottlenecks. However, the government has not acted in a concerted manner to address the problems posed by the greater crime. Had they done so, the developments in the prison system could have been predicted several years ago.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-47	Madam President, I would like Liberals are pleased to have recently got the government up and running when it comes to starting cement mixers and building new prisons and detention centres in Sweden. Important for the Liberals when we entered into cooperation with the government for this term of office was to invest in the judiciary. Therefore, we are now seeing, so far decided or proposed, investments of 10 billion, of which 2.7 billion are in prison. Better late than never, we say about these bets. But it is weak that we have ended up in this situation, and I think that the debate needs to be a great deal about this: the long-term planning conditions, what happens to forecasts and what happens to the assessments made over the development of the world. I'll get back to that. Liberals' fundamental political view of criminal policy is that this needs to be done. We need to have more places in prison, we need to lock up more of the worst criminals – life-style crises, the worst criminals – for a longer period of time. This is in no way contrary to the fact that we are making progressive and ambitious preventive efforts and are at an early stage clear against young people who end up in crime. There's no contradiction. We believe that this is crucial for the safety of employees and inmates. The situation in our institutions is very strained. The overcrowding is almost total. In Ekot's Saturday interview, we were able to hear the Director General explain that 100 new seats are coming in. However, this is roughly 100 double occupancy places, i.e. those who work there will meet two inmates both when they unlock at eight o'clock in the morning and when they close at eight o'clock in the evening. This is a security risk that it will cost a lot of money to deal with. Nor is it likely good for the inmates, who really need to lie in their cell and think about their lives and what to do better. Other times, when you're not in the cell, you should work, educate yourself and be treated. It's supposed to be safe. It should be difficult to escape and difficult to commit new crimes. With the overcrowding we have in our prisons today, it will be difficult to break up the gangs. The idea is to get better out. We have heard evidence of the decline in the work in the prisons. The time for people to learn something and perhaps find a chance to get back outside the walls with a job goes down. You get worse out than when you came in, and that's not good. The police can't do their job. It's getting less efficient. The police have to arrest the same people time and again, since those in the sonic line may commit new crimes, perhaps serious violent crimes. This is also disrespectful of the victims of crime. Madam President, I would like The government has to come back with a plan to make sure this keeps going. It's ten years, and it can't be broken.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-55	Madam President, I would like Swedish penitentiary care is one of the best in the world, and recidivism has improved over several years. Relapse prevention is the most important task of the penitentiary, and when the penitentiary system succeeds in preventing a convicted criminal from committing new crimes, we ensure that fewer people become victims of crime. We save money in society, and we make sure that people can lead a meaningful, honest life. Now that the prison system has a shortage of places, this important relapse prevention work is jeopardised. The Green Party takes very seriously the risks associated with the lack of space. We see risks in terms of security, with a higher risk of violence both between inmates and against personnel and the risk of escape. Having said that, it is nevertheless positive that the Director-General's message to the Committee on Justice has been that up to now it has actually managed to maintain a well-functioning relapse prevention work. The Green Party is working in the government to expand the capacity of the penitentiary to meet the work now being done by the police and the results of the fact that we have actually pushed through several accurate penalties, including stricter penalties for serious gun crimes.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-60	Madam President, I would like As I said in my opening speech, we are currently carrying out one of the biggest renovations, renovations and expansions in Swedish justice that we have ever done. We are making extensions all over Sweden, which is, of course, a consequence of the fact that there is such a great need in the whole legal chain to ensure that they are able to cope with those who are now being arrested and sentenced in prison. Basically, this is a good thing. Developments are such that today's prisons and detention centres are often people who used to run around with guns in the city. They are now being arrested automatically, and instead they come into the penitentiary. That is the fundamental development. Then we hear some slobbered statements in the debate. Johan Forssell says that there are fewer places than ten years ago. That may have been the case ten years ago, but there are more places now than when we took office. Those closures took place earlier. During our time we have expanded the number of places in the prison service. Those are facts. And we continue to greatly expand. What we faced when we took office six years ago was a huge maintenance need. For many years it had not spent enough money to renovate the properties that existed. We may think that since the Alliance was in operation for eight years – the Moderates led the Ministry of Justice's work for eight years, barely any criminals were caught and the occupancy was low – one could at least have taken the opportunity to renovate and ensure that there were good prisons and detention centres. What we faced at the beginning of our term of office was to close some places because the decay had gone so far that the premises were simply end-of-life. We have now taken hold of this, and we are now making sure that it is renovated and expanded in the places where it is possible. I pointed out that during these six years, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have had an opportunity to really influence the budget, namely in autumn 2018, when you trumped through a budget while we were a transitional government. At that time, the three right-wing parties funded the Prison Service with over SEK 300 million. If it had been allowed to continue, instead of turning on and renovating, we would have had to close down institutions. Thanks to the return of the government now in place in January 2019, we were able to put back half a billion. My question to the three right-wing parties, who have now discovered the need in the Prison Service, is as follows. If you were so keen to ensure that the Prison Service has the necessary resources, why were you underfunded and why did you not invest when you had the opportunity? Why did we have to pour in another half a billion dollars the first thing we had to do when we returned? We will continue the expansion and renovations to meet the needs of the Prison Service.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-67	Madam President, I would like Let's get the numbers out once and for all. In 2010, there were 4,895 places in Swedish prison care. The latest annual statistics from 2019 show that there are 4,331 seats. So it's over 500 fewer. It's the latest annual statistics. Compared to the end of 2014, it is roughly unchanged, even slightly fewer. At the same time, this is taking place in the light of the fact that there are 1 million more people in the country, and during the time of the Minister of Justice as responsible Minister of State, gang crime has exploded. More criminals, more serious insecurity and more people who are afraid but fewer places in the Prison Service compared to 2014 and 2010. What grade does Morgan Johansson want to give to himself for her efforts in this area?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-70	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell will probably have to go back to his slidestick. Here's the thing: The years 2013 to 2018 decreased the number of seats by 455. In 2014 to 2020 the number of seats increased by 448. That's it. It is the official statistics that exist, and it is thanks to the expansion we did. One concern, which I raised a moment ago in my speech, was that when we came to power in 2014, we were not only faced with a situation where the judiciary did not function properly, but that there were also very large maintenance needs. You had allowed the prison services to fail for eight years. One of the first things we had to do was to close the prison in Kirseberg because it was exhausted. The detention in Västerås had to be closed because it was also exhausted. So it happened at the beginning of our term of office. What we have now done, and continue to do, is to renovate much of what had to stand and decay in the past.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-75	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice can play with whatever figures he wants, but that does not change the fact that the number of seats is fewer than ten years ago – despite an escalating gang crime and a very strongly growing population. When Morgan Johansson was chairman of the Justice Committee, he commented on Beatrice Ask, linked to the police figures, by writing that Beatrice Ask has now been Minister of Justice for six years, so she can't blame anyone else. Madam President, I would like Isn't it funny that history repeats itself? Now it is Morgan Johansson who has been Minister of Justice for more than six years. Can you imagine, to use the minister's own words; now Morgan Johansson cannot blame anyone else. Take some responsibility sometime, Morgan Johansson!
i-ebaa496a384116ee-78	Madam President, I would like I am happy to take responsibility for the years I have been responsible, but I cannot take responsibility for the year of the alliance government. I can't take responsibility for not doing the renovations that needed to be done. Nor can I take responsibility for the fact that we ended up in a situation where some places needed to be closed at the beginning of our term of office. I am happy to take responsibility for the investments we have made, the renovations we are about to make and the new facilities we are about to build. But Johan Forssell should also consider sometimes taking responsibility for decisions he makes. He sat in the Chamber and pushed through a budget in 2018 together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats who underfunded Swedish penitentiary with SEK 300 million. We then lost over half a year's pace. It matters, Madam President, what decisions you make. It's not a game, it's not a game. If you sit here and push through such a budget, there will then be consequences. The consequence was that we lost half a year, but we are now making up for this with the great resources we have provided.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-80	Madam President, I would like Let us take the figures in the transitional budget as the best argument for the Minister of Justice. In fact, it was SEK 250 000 more for the Prison Service than the transitional budget that the Social Democrats themselves voted for in this House. We can put that out on Youtube in a small box and Morgan Johansson can try to explain for himself. But plus is plus and minus is minus, and through SD, KD, and the Moderates it was 250 000 more than the government advocated. Director General Martin Holmgren recently said in the Saturday interview that the rate of expansion is inadequate already. He predicts that there will be a need for more places of detention given the political developments with punitive measures. Is Morgan Johansson satisfied with the pace of development that he is defending today, or could there be reason to listen to the opposition and to have an increased pace of construction when it comes to temporary places in the short term and permanent places in the longer term? Why has the government failed to get foreigners to serve sentences in European countries when there are such well-developed agreements within Europe? Some years have even fewer people serving sentences in other countries than before.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-83	Madam President, I would like Let me take the last question first. Transfer of enforcement to other countries – for example, Poland, Romania or Lithuania, the foreign theft leagues, and other European countries – have increased by 50% since 2017. It is a result of the work we have done to ensure that more people serve their sentences in the countries in which they are citizens. Since last summer there has been a change of law in place that means that all decisions must be taken promptly. So we're speeding up that part. Then there was the question of the budget and the number of seats. We were a transitional government, and we could not make any efforts. But you, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in this House, could make whatever efforts you wanted. You reduced the tax by 20 billion, but you deliberately chose to underfinance the Prison Service by 300 million SEK. That responsibility, Madam President, can Adam Marttinen never escape. He sat here and pushed through that decision.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-85	Madam President, I would like The alternatives that were on the table were the Swedish Democrats' draft budget with 750 million more for the Swedish Prison Service, the Government's draft budget that gave 0 SEK to the Swedish Prison Service during a full year of operation and the draft budget that went through that gave 250 000 SEK more than the transitional budget that had otherwise become a reality. So there was 250 000 more for the Prison Service. You can put it in the stylish little Youtube box so that everyone can see it afterwards and read what plus and minus is in this case. Morgan Johansson, Minister of Justice, with a little untruth here. I want answers to the question why things are going so slowly. It has taken six years to get the pace of development on an agreement that has been in place within Europe since 2015. It is a clear rejection that we still have a large share in our institutions that are European citizens and could serve the sentence in their home countries. It's a failure, not a success story. I would also like to know if Morgan Johansson is satisfied with the pace of development that gives us a strained position in our institutions until 2029, with the risk of overcrowding until then.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-88	Madam President, I would like We have almost daily contact with the Swedish Correctional Service and are constantly updating our plans. I know that the K. Correctional Service is working on as soon as you can, because it's clear that even the K. Correctional Service feels the pressure to come up with these plans. Just look at what has happened in recent times! Decision on a new institution in Trelleborg, decision on a new institution in Kalmar, decision on expansion of Hall and so on. But it is based on the fact that there is good cooperation with the municipalities that you should work with. There you can say that the Swedish Democrats have a lesson to do. The Swedish Democrats in Svedala was one of the parties that pushed the hardest so that there would be no prison in Svedala. Here in this House, the Swedish Democrats are saying that we will build more prisons. But in the municipality, in Svedala, the Swedish Democrats are doing everything to stop the expansion plans. So, Madam President, a populist party is acting which basically has no consistent policy at all.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-91	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson became Minister for the first time in 2002. It's the same year I graduated. In other words, Morgan Johansson has been walking in these corridors for a very long time. That is why I wonder, Madam President, how Minister Johansson may have missed what has happened in Swedish prisons and how he, as a minister, may have pursued a policy of longer sentences without realizing the consequences it would have for the justice chain in the end. I'm rather surprised by the ignorance of the Justice Department about the situation in the penitentiary system, because that's nothing new. Broken premises and full prisons are not a new issue; yet the government has focused extremely much on simply extending the sentences without seeing what it leads to.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-94	Madam President, I would like If the accusation is that I have been in this House for a very long time, I may plead guilty. I have done so; I came to the House in 1998. During my first period in Parliament, between 1998 and 2002, I sat on the Committee on Justice. Then I visited a lot of prisons. I have been visiting prisons for 20 years, so I have been able to follow developments throughout that period. One of the great things I see has happened in Swedish prison care if I compare how it was then with what it is now is that you invest a lot more in education, not least vocational training, to make sure that people when they come out after served sentence will actually be able to come back and become carpenters or lathes or some other profession so that they adapt well. It's an incredibly good development, and I think it's part of the explanation that relapse into crime has actually decreased over the 20 years that I can review. It also follows that I believe in Swedish penitentiary. If we have people inside the penitentiary, we can work with them in such a way that we can prepare them for a life outside the walls.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-98	Madam President, I would like I'm very happy that Morgan Johansson has been in prison for 20 years. I myself have been in prison for six years. That's as long as I've been on the Justice Committee. What I have learned from day one is that it is full and worn out in Sweden's institutions and that the government has consistently worked to tighten the penalties and lock up more and more in the prisons without seeing what it leads to. As a result, the staff in the prisons have a life-threatening working environment. As a result, the relapse prevention work that Morgan Johansson talks about does not work properly because it is too full in the institutions. It is no longer possible to blame that the Moderates' budget was so bad. I agree with that, but now it's a matter for the government to take on its responsibilities. We cannot have institutions in Sweden that look like the last season of Orange Is the New Black.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-102	Madam President, I would like No, it certainly does not look like that. I don't want anyone outside this house to think that it looks like that in Swedish institutions, because it doesn't. We who visit them often know this and know how the business works. What sets me apart from Linda Westerlund Snecker in this debate, I think, is that she does not want them to sit there, those who have committed crimes. She wants to let them out, preferably prematurely. I say that we need to get the most criminally active individuals off the streets so that they do not continue to commit crimes and be role models for others who may be entering gang crime. I want them in the prisons. I want them to be part of the Swedish penitentiary, which I think is good and which can prepare them for a life outside the walls where they can get jobs and housing and live law-abiding. That's probably what separates us. I believe in the treatment that the prison services give to those who end up there, and that is why I want to ensure that they sit there instead of remaining on the streets and committing crimes.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-105	Madam President, I would like I am not really surprised that the Minister of Justice is turning this debate into something I almost regard as numerical. But speaking of figures and statements that are simply thrown out, as I think the Minister of Justice put it, I would like to quote the Minister of Justice. In fact, we put more people in jail than ever before," said Morgan Johansson in Agenda. But how well do the Minister's words fit reality? Most were sentenced 1987 - 1990. Then about 16,000 prison sentences fell each year. Now it's barely 11,000. If we look a little closer in time, we see that the average population of institutions has fallen by about 500 people compared to 2005 and 2006. How can the Minister say with a clear conscience that we are putting more people in jail than ever when reality says otherwise?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-109	Madam President, I would like At least it's more than 15 years old. Perhaps that is the time we are discussing here, the one we can review and the one we have a responsibility for. That is what has happened in recent years – 1 000 more have been detained in just a few years. This is a very sharp increase. Is that good or bad? Of course, that question can be asked. I think it's a good thing that we, with punitive measures, arrest possibilities, camera surveillance, increased secret coercive measures to the police and everything else we've done in this area – not least the expansion of the police – are actually starting to provide effectiveness in law enforcement so that people who previously ran around the city with weapons can no longer do so. It's basically good. I don't think we're gonna split up there. But I also have a question for Andreas Carlson. I see that the KD is pushing us to build prisons in other countries. Then my question is which countries Andreas Carlson wants to build prisons in. Is it Somalia, or is it Afghanistan? You even spent money, I see in your budget. Which countries will KD build prisons in? That would be interesting to know.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-112	Madam President, I would like I'll answer the last question first. This is a mission we want to give to the Prison Service together with Sida. In the way that projects are being run today in Kenya, for example, we believe that it is possible to strengthen legal institutions and build prisons abroad through aid efforts. On the political side, we do not want to point out which countries are concerned. Now I would like to return to my question to the Minister for Justice, Madam President. I think words are important. I think it's important how you express yourself. A Minister of Justice, who says in this debate that things are being thrown out from various quarters, has said in Agenda, perhaps the most viewed social programme in national media, that we are actually putting more people in jail than ever. As the figures do not correspond to it – there are figures that are in direct contrast to what the Minister of Justice has said on national television – I asked how the Minister can say this with a clear conscience when the reality says the opposite.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-114	Madam President, I would like I have answered that question. What I don't understand is what Andreas Carlson really wants. Is he against the punitive measures we've taken? Is he against the fact that the police have been given more resources and increased opportunities to access gang criminals, for example? Does he question the development itself, that we now have a much greater need in the prison system than we had just a few years ago? He can't possibly do that. What has happened is precisely that we have strengthened the police, increased the penalties and made sure that there has been increased access to the criminals. This means filling up detention centres and prisons, and that is why we must ensure that this is expanded at the rate we now have. Andreas Carlson answered the question that he does not know which countries to build prisons in. I'm just pointing out that this is completely out of hand. Building a prison is a multi-billion dollar investment-- would we get started and do it in Afghanistan or Somalia? Is it really well thought out by KD?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-118	Madam President, I would like Some things have happened since Morgan Johansson and I started in this House, which we actually did at the same time. It was then that one could drug Håga, and it was possible to fulfill one's employment obligation in prisons by lying in one's cell and smoking. The numbers are interesting, but I can see that there were 6,900 places in 2011 and that there are 6,900 places right now. During that time, many old institutions have been phased out, which are now waiting to be used again. My question to Morgan Johansson is: Is there a long-term plan? The Director-General called for help on Saturday and that there must be a long-term plan because there will be a need for thousands more places than what is now being built. Is the government prepared to come up with such a plan so that we can deal with it in the Committee on Justice? If you do so and if it is sufficiently comprehensive, you have the Liberals' support, Morgan Johansson.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-120	Madam President, I would like If you're going to take the longer term perspective, I'll say that there are two things that have happened in the correctional system, which I was into a previous line shift. One is the increased opportunity for education, which is fantastically good and better prepares people for life on the outside. The second is what has happened over the last 20 years, namely that safety has been significantly strengthened. We have almost no deviations or escapes from Swedish prison services anymore. We used to. If we go back 15 years, we see that it was a big problem, and it is actually no longer. Johan Pehrson asks for a plan. Yes, there is an extension plan: 2 000 more places are to be built – I think there are 1 400 prisons and 600 detention centres – over a ten-year period. So such a plan exists. Then I think it is primarily an authority decision; the Riksdag cannot sit and decide that an institution should be built there or there, not at that level of detail. But Johan Pehrson should know that this is the plan ahead.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-122	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we get this long-term planning, because something is done and then things happen. The political system sometimes changes majorities, and sometimes something else happens that makes things a little easier for a while. That is what happened after the important plan presented in 2011, when there had been a few years of increased intake in prisons again. Then two things happened. One was that the Supreme Court, in all honour, came up with the brilliant idea of roughly halving the penalties for drug offences. It wasn't so good, but of course the pressure decreased tremendously then. The second was that we made an absolutely necessary but rather difficult change in the police. Thus, a few years of efficiency were lost, and the expansion was slowed down. We must have a long-term plan for ten years that we are politically behind here. Otherwise, it will not apply. We're not going to have this number-exercis. I agree that the content is absolutely central.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-126	Madam President, I would like Yes, and such a plan exists, as I said. There are therefore 2 000 additional places, both detention centres and detention centres. Then it is very possible that we will have to revise it. One thing the Director General said in the Saturday interview this weekend was that, with what is now happening, it is possible that we need to go even a little higher. But it should be remembered that the decisions that have now been made are great. The address in Trelleborg provides 300 seats, and the institution in Kalmar also provides 300 seats. The new detention centre in Kristianstad provides 100 more seats. The major structural decisions are now taken by the Prison Service gradually, week by week and month by month. Of course, I look forward to seeing how to continue at this rate. Then, of course, we will have to follow this closely – and make sure that together we set aside the resources that the Prison Service needs in order to be able to expand at the pace that is needed.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-129	Madam President, I would like As I began by saying and as I think everyone agrees with me, we have a very serious situation in Sweden linked to gang crime. The shootings are on the increase, the explosions are on the increase, murders in criminal environments are on the increase and gang crime is on the increase. The only thing going down is actually the number of police officers in external service and the number of places in the penitentiary. Unfortunately, this is going to be the case for this government. The historic reputation of the Minister of Justice will probably be that he is the Minister of Justice who has been able to show the worst results in modern times. Unfortunately, that is the case. At the same time, it does not have to be so, but it is actually possible to change that. The great risk in society right now is that people lose hope and feel that it is just as good to leave the country and move – that you have to adapt. But Sweden is in many ways an amazing country, Madam President, and this can be changed. However, it will cost money. We Moderates, in addition to the government's funding, allocate 1.7 billion to the entire judiciary to strengthen the whole legal chain. Several thousand new places will have to be created in the prison system, and I wonder whether the forecasts that have been provided will indeed be sufficient. It is partly about prosecuting more people, but I also think that we need to take a different view of people who repeatedly relapse into very serious crime. I think that we need to have a perspective in legal policy that is about protecting victims and protecting society from these kinds of people rather than what happens to the offender. We also need to tighten the rules on parole. In addition, we moderates have for several years pointed out the importance of carrying out more expulsions of foreign citizens. It is not a human right for them to serve their sentences in Sweden. These are two clear examples of what you can do if you have the money and the political power.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-135	Madam President, I would like Actually, one should let such things pass, but I probably do not want that anyway when Johan Forssell goes up in the pulpit and again says that the number of places in the prison service will decrease during this government period. That's actually wrong. He has no evidence of that claim. On the contrary, if we look at the average population between 2014 and 2020, we see that the number of seats has increased by over 400 – almost 500. That's how it is. To then try to give a picture that something else has happened is not really a fair fight technique. I am also looking for Johan Forssell's own responsibility. Can he at least admit now that it was wrong of the Moderates to push forward as much savings in the prison system as they did in 2018? Can I at least get such a confession? I think that would be good for the debate.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-137	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry to have to say this, but Morgan Johansson is arguing completely irresponsiblely. It's almost comical. I'm not standing here saying the Moderates have done everything right. I do not believe that any party has done so in historical times. But the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats put on the table, and which received the support of the Riksdag, meant more money than the government, which included Morgan Johansson, had put in. Criticism only falls back on the government, because that's how it was. Let's look ahead. We Moderates allocate SEK 1.7 billion more to the entire judiciary in addition to the government's funding. In fact, even the Left Party invests more in the judiciary than Morgan Johansson does. In this House, it is the Social Democrats and the Green Party that are far left in the view of the appropriation for the judiciary, and that will not change the very serious situation we have with shootings, gang crime and lack of space. That won't hold, Minister of Justice.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-141	Madam President, I would like Can we at least agree that the number of places has increased during our time? I would just like such recognition – the number I have is that from 2014 to 2020 there have been 448 more seats. That way, we won't have to hear that statement over and over again. We are looking forward to a continued rapid development of the expansion. I have mentioned the new large institutions in Kalmar and Trelleborg, the detention centre in Kristianstad, a new large expansion of Berga in Helsingborg, Hallanstalten outside Södertälje and so on. We have a major expansion plan: 2 000 more places in the next ten years. That's what it looks like. It would be nice, I think, if Johan Forssell at least stopped that kind of rhetoric and the claim that the number of places has decreased, because they have not actually done so. When it comes to the budget, Johan Forssell, we were a transitional government and could not make any investments. But the Moderates could make whatever efforts they wanted, but they chose not to finance the Correctional Service in such a way as the Correctional Service had requested.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-146	Madam President, I would like The most recent statistics in the prison system – I don't think it should be measured month by month – show that there were 200 fewer places at the end of 2019 compared to 2014. But even if the places have increased by a few hundred, is it a good enough result in times of another million people lately or in terms of one in many ways in the criminal policy debate new view of this with punishment and an escalating gang crime? Is the Minister of Justice really happy with these results? And it can't be that after 2,000 years of time and millions of years of human and earthly life, everything started with the M – KD budget? It can't be the answer to every question, every problem and every societal challenge, can it? No matter what has been, do it again and do it right now! After all, the government spends the least money of all parties in this House. Is the Minister of Justice really satisfied with this? Does the Minister think that it will really reverse developments? I don't think so.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-149	Madam President, I would like Yesterday I read the debate article by Johan Forssell, where I think the Moderates pretend to try to understand Swedish penitentiary and say that it is security-building to remove parts of the parole. I would say that there is no more security for all victims than that the prison services have a hard time with the clients, who get a probationary period in the community after their stay in prison. But you Moderates like to relax the entire system and remove outpatient control, remove sobriety tests and have less control for less time of newly released prisoners. Why?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-151	Madam President, I would like Our moderate approach to parole is that it should be an opportunity for those who are trying rather than a right, as it is in principle today. There are, in fact, quite few demands to participate in treatment programmes and studies, etc. We think that it is unreasonable, not least in terms of the risk of recurrence in crime, which we know is reduced if, for example, you have an education. We think it is reasonable to reward good behavior. But to almost automatically obtain parole, even if you choose not to participate in treatment programs or studies, we find it problematic. Then it is possible to extend the probation period. Today, it actually only extends over the length of the sentence, including the conditional release. It can be extended, so it is possible to find other mechanisms here. However, the principle must be clear: after three quarters of the term of imprisonment, it is reasonable to make demands of good conduct and effort.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-154	Madam President, I would like I would say that there is nothing so protective for victims as that the client is on parole, with the enormous control that it entails. But I like what you say, Johan Forssell, about more education during the institution stay and more demands to participate in treatment programs. That's a great suggestion. I would add that we must have more treatment programmes in other languages than Swedish. I would also like to see even greater powers given to outpatient services to use electronic surveillance in the field of outpatient care during the parole period. Then you would have more control and be able to create even more security in society. So what do you say? We have run over the government very many times now, most recently today at the meeting of the Justice Committee. Should we do it again and make the parole and parole even better?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-157	We speak through the President and address each other with first and last names.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-158	Madam President, I would like There are several aspects here. It is, of course, about what happens to the person who has committed a crime. Then there is the victim's perspective, and it is very close to the heart of us Moderates. Of course there are problematic aspects. For example, to extend the parole period and make it happen earlier, as I think the Left Party wants, I am sceptical about what happens to the person who has been the victim of a crime and who then very soon after that will meet the offender somewhere in his daily life. I really think you have to think about that. We Moderates are too severe a punishment that marks the seriousness of the crime; that is our principle. But we're not too stupid a punishment. We want you not to go back to prison. I am impressed by the work done by the prison staff. But I also realise, not least after talking to a great many inmates, that treatment programmes can be improved. Possibly, the possibility of learning the Swedish language and obtaining a comprehensive school degree can be improved. I would be happy to settle with the Left Party if we can find more common solutions there.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-163	Madam President, I would like I'm glad to hear that the Moderates are against stupid punishment. At the same time, the Moderates want to form a government with the support of KD and SD. SD's party leader Jimmie Åkesson wants to become Minister of Justice and ultimately responsible for the prison services. My question to Johan Forssell is how does he view Åkesson as Minister of Justice and SD's idea of a second-class prison for people who are foreigners and for various reasons have not been expelled and who are not treated to reduce the risk of relapse, despite the obvious risk that they will actually one day come out on the street in Sweden again?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-165	Madam President, I would like It is not I who should allocate ministerial posts to anyone – I think the Green Party also understands – and we Moderates go to elections with our own policy. The second type of discussion is probably more the one that has historically been between the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the media, but it will probably have to stand for you more. Our position is that foreign citizens who commit crimes in Sweden should serve the sentences to a much greater extent in their home countries. We think that is a reasonable principle. One is an area which, unfortunately, has developed rather weakly in recent years. Not least the lack of space is a contributing reason why so many people serve the sentences in Sweden. Perhaps Annika Hirvonen Falk's position here is a partial explanation of why this work is so slow. It may not be a priority for the government in their regulatory letters, etc. But I believe that a major change needs to be made here.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-168	Madam President, I would like The Moderates may go to elections on their own policy, but they have also been clear that they are going to elections to form a government with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats as government bases. Then it is important to know: Are the Moderates behind the policy that the Swedish Democrats want to implement, where people who are actually at risk of returning to the street in Sweden should be treated as a second-class prisoner in the penitentiary without access to any relapse prevention measures? I see great risks that we would release people who for years have perhaps not even been allowed to lie in a proper bed but on some kind of mattress on the floor and without any effort to ensure that they do not continue to commit crimes in our country.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-169	Madam President, I would like If Annika Hirvonen Falk is so concerned about the risk of recurrence in crime, the question is why the Green Party has been so reluctant to change the Swedish penal code. Take the youth discount, which is valid for up to 20 years, or the quantity discount, where you can do several crimes for free, so to speak – you can commit many crimes without any consequence. This means that there will be more victims and more serious crimes will be committed. I never hear the Green Party talk about the risk of new victims, but it is always about what happens to the perpetrator. Here our perspectives differ. As I said, we are making proposals to strengthen treatment programmes, and that applies to everyone in prison. We also place higher demands on learning the Swedish language, being careful and taking part in medical treatment. That is a long line of things, and here we are, in fact, ahead of the government. I think this is the answer to Annika Hirvonen Falk's question.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-174	Madam President, I would like We have heard a few speeches and changes of line which have explained the attitude of the various parties to the serious situation of the prison service. In my introduction, I also described how other authorities have experienced being treated under the Social Democratic Government. It is a question of the police crisis and the under-financing of the Swedish courts and the public prosecutors, and now we have a situation for penitentiary workers who are at risk of becoming dangerous if we do not succeed in doing something about it in the short term. In Ekot's daily interview the other day, Director General Martin Holmgren estimated that the established forecast of 2,000 new places divided into detention centres and prisons is at a disadvantage. I share his assessment, and judging from the draft budget of several other parties, they also share the view that the pace is too weak. The only person who seems to believe that this rate of expansion of Swedish institutions is sufficient is the Minister of Justice. We have not received any new information on the future of this debate, and if there is no change, the situation in our institutions will be strained until 2029. This is not acceptable to us Swedish democrats. Sweden needs more temporary and permanent places, and they need to be created at a faster pace than the government has planned. One needs to have an understanding of which criminal policy is at hand, and here the government has a lot to learn. We also need to ensure that foreigners, who make up one third of those admitted to our institutions, really begin to serve their sentences in their own countries. The weakness in this is the responsibility of the government. For six years of red-green government, work has not progressed significantly. We also need to review the possibility of hiring places in other European countries, as other countries have done, such as Norway, in case of temporary humps of overcrowding. There is much to do, but the government is showing little will.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-180	Madam President, I would like You might want to let this go when the debate starts to drag on. But not when Adam Marttinen just after a change of line where I said that the expansion plan is 2 000 but may have to be revised up throws out that there is only one here who believes that the 2 000 seats will be enough and that is the Minister for Justice. Again, it would be nice if Adam Marttinen could listen to what I am saying. If additional places are needed, we are, of course, prepared to increase those resources. But now see everything we do, with the expansions in Malmö, Huddinge, Helsingborg, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Östersund, Norrköping, Trelleborg, Kalmar, Kristianstad, Tidaholm and Södertälje. Throughout the country we have carried out or are carrying out expansion. I intend to ensure that the Prison Service has the resources that the agency needs to carry out its task in the future.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-183	Madam President, I would like Is any of these examples where expansion takes place beyond what is already planned, or is it about the 2 000 sites? That is my specific question.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-184	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, part of the development plan for the 2 000 sites. But in a previous line shift, I said as I said that if we need to build more places, we must of course do it. But right now, the assessment is that this will last for these years. What Adam Marttinen said in his speech was that, as Minister of Justice, I will not do anything further if necessary. That is wrong, because I will continue to set aside the resources needed for this to be implemented. However, it is important that we do not lose time again in the form of the fact that the Swedish democrats locally oppose institutions, as you did in Svedala, or that you in this House take decisions on budgets that cause us to lose perhaps six months. This is what I hope we will not have to do again.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-187	Madam President, I would like Now I listened carefully and heard the words and right now is the assessment that this should be enough. But right now we are several parties that make a different assessment of what needs to be expanded to 2029 in addition to what the government has already announced. Director General Martin Holmgren is one of those who share the view that the announced rate of expansion is too low. Given that the government's criminal policy is guided from the back seat by the opposition, I understand that it can be difficult to predict which penalties are at hand. But when the Committee on Justice delivers announcements based on opposition policy, it leads to increased penalties. However, it is not always as much as we wish when the government presents its proposals. Perhaps this is the case, as I said, because this is happening at a rate that has been difficult to predict for the Minister of Justice. The Minister for Justice is therefore welcome to pick up the phone and ask the committee what punitive measures are at hand so that together we can make a realistic analysis of which criminal policy will lead to what needs in the future.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-190	Madam President, I would like It is important that we can manage the places. Part of this is that people who are not Swedish citizens and have committed crimes here should be able to leave the country. The Liberals agree with the Swedish Democrats that it is possible to check whether it is possible to cooperate with other countries in the EU to use any overcapacity. The European Union is, as you know, very good, in our view liberals. It is also necessary to ensure that people in custody do not take up their place in detention centres, but are in the custody of the Migration Board. If we are to cooperate more with the European Union, we must say yes to this cooperation. It would be good to be able to increase the pressure on Romania and Bulgaria to accept the citizens who have committed crimes in Sweden. Are the Swedish Democrats prepared to cooperate more within the EU?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-193	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have never opposed cooperation within the European Union. On the contrary, we have pointed out the importance of cooperation, not least in criminal policy. This applies, for example, to police cooperation and intelligence that may be useful for law enforcement work. However, we believe that cooperation within Europe has not been used to the same extent for the mandate of the Prison Service. What we are opposed to is the supranationality that the Liberals advocate in almost everything. However, I do not see any need for supranationality in the form of a bilateral agreement with another country. Take Norway, which is the example that we are starting from! They have had their own prisoners in the Netherlands for a period of time to deal with overcrowding. In fact, it does not even take a Europe to deal with this matter.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is astounding as it is today, that it is difficult to expel people, partly because we have many short sentences in Sweden and that it takes a certain amount of time on the penalty to be able to transfer to another country. The Liberals think that this is important for us to change. It is incredibly provocative that some countries have such poor prisons that there are humanitarian aspects. People are welcome to come here, because we have an open Europe – that's good – but they cannot be sent back to their own countries' prisons because it's too bad there. This is provocative, and the Liberals believe that the solution to this is a more intensive cooperation that Romania, Bulgaria and other countries cannot block. Therefore, the idea that we take decisions jointly in the EU, with some supranationality, is also crucial in the area of justice in order to achieve efficiency. These people should not be in Sweden.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-199	Madam President, I would like I do not think there are any actual lines of conflict between the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats in the view that we in Sweden can do better, but I do not believe that supranationality is the best way forward to force countries to do this or that way. In other ways, through aid policies and other things, you can get a completely different quality of institutions that makes it easier to get people to serve their sentences there. We also highlight other proposals on the EU's capacity for places of detention. I understand that the Liberals are in favour when it comes to renting places in other countries. One would imagine renting places in nearby countries for people to be deported to a country where prison standards are currently too poor to be expelled. There are various ways forward, but I do not believe that supranationality is a necessary way to achieve the result that we both seek.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-202	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats and Adam Marttinen, with their candidate for Minister of Justice as party leader, want to take seriously the risk that people, having served long prison sentences under substandard conditions and without access to relapse prevention efforts, will be released and risk remaining in Sweden when it becomes impossible to expel. I wonder: in what way does Adam Marttinen justify this to the people who are at risk of being the next victim of these people?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-204	Madam President, I would like It is a theoretical case that the Green Party paints, but in principle I do not think that Swedish taxpayers should have to account for the content of a rehabilitation to Swedish society when the purpose is for the people in question to be expelled from our country. There is, like, no purpose for Swedish taxpayers to pay a bill of thousands of SEK for nothing that will be of no use to them and that I suspect even the inmates, for that matter, will not benefit. For example, how can you benefit from a Swedish education if you are to be expelled to another country where working conditions are completely different? There is much to be called into question in the policy of the Green Party. The reason why they ask this question is because they assume that foreigners who commit crimes should not be expelled. This will not happen with the policy of the Swedish Democrats. When we decide, the foreigners who commit crimes will be expelled, and then this theoretical question becomes completely out of date.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-206	Madam President, I would like I would argue that this is not a theoretical case. There are countries today which, for various reasons, do not accept their citizens. How will these countries change if Jimmie Åkesson becomes Minister of Justice? We also have international law which prohibits expulsions to countries if a person is at risk of torture or death penalty. Will the Swedish Democrats violate international law?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-208	Madam President, I would like Deportation policy is not the strong arm of the Green Party. There is a profound ideological difference between the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats in their view of who has the right to be in Sweden. We will probably never be able to bridge this conflict between our parties. The attitude of the Swedish Democrats is that all foreigners who commit crimes in Sweden should be expelled from our country. Where they are expelled is secondary to the opinion of the Swedish Democrats. Their expulsion to countries where they are at risk of torture and the death penalty is not an issue at all, but it is possible to expel them to other countries, such as third countries, if agreements are concluded with them. I do not see that the government has had active work in this area, and that is why the government has failed. The reason for this lies in the fact that the Green Party is in the government. If we have a completely different government with a different attitude, we will have different results. I am convinced that the content of the prison service's recidivism prevention work is not something that Swedish taxpayers should stand for when it comes to foreigners who are to be expelled from our country.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-212	Madam President, I would like I concluded my previous speech by emphasising the importance of leadership, that budgetary resources are, of course, necessary in themselves, but at the same time it requires driving forces, a will and an ability to get things done. Unfortunately, there are shortcomings in many parts of society and in public administration. An example that is so silly that one would prefer it to be a boast, but which is unfortunately true is the totally unnecessary conflict that arose between Special Properties and the Correctional Service, two operations with the same principal, the state, who got caught in a rental dispute that stopped an important and good expansion of the Tidaholmsanstalten. This has affected relapse prevention activities and contributed to the serious situation of the current lack of space. The conflict is now reportedly resolved. For the Prison Service, it feels like the agency is about to be filled with a piece of good leadership. The new Director-General recently visited the Committee on Justice and, at least to me, gave me great confidence. Madam President, I would like Prison services are and remain an essential part of the legal chain. The greatest number of crimes are committed by few people, and most crimes are committed by someone who has committed crimes in the past. Effective relapse prevention that equips the inmates to enter society, with several opportunities to build an honest life and have a meaningful job, good relations with others, a home, a life in safety and good health, cannot be overestimated. In the long term, successful work on this particular subject will relieve the entire rest of the legal chain and create room for the police to be even better, so that more criminal investigations come to an end and that the important crime prevention work can be developed and prevent crime from being committed in the first place. It will be a good circle where the pursuit of a better life and a more secure society will be pushed on so fast that the gravity of crime can be overcome.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-218	Madam President, I would like There are two major reforms that will make the situation in the prisons even more unmanageable and the society more insecure: it is removing the youth reduction, the so-called penalty rebate for young people, and starting to pine on when the conditional release can occur. If the parole is removed, three things will happen: the overcrowding in the prisons is even greater, people will be left with a plastic bag outside the prison fence, without the possibility of assistance and support from the prison services, and crime will increase. If the youth reduction is removed, three things will happen: the overcrowding in the prisons is even greater, the young people will be locked up with long sentences and come out as adult gang leaders and criminality will increase. What the prison services need are three things: that people no longer have to sit in prison but are released for parole, with an extended parole, that more people carry out their sentences in freedom rather than in prison, and that they are renovating and building new institutions. There is a choice to make between what works and reduces crime and what increases crime.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-223	Madam President, I would like I was going to make a speech in which I read in the Left Party's budget paper and asked: how can you propose large savings here in view of gang crime? But judge my surprise when I see that the Left Party is actually proposing more money than the government does. These are interesting times in which we live. My thinking has to do with punishment, which still affects the situation of the penitentiary. I would be the first to welcome if good and broad agreements could be reached on, for example, treatment programmes. There are only winners if we can avoid people committing new crimes. But at the same time, after talking to many scientists, police and social services, I must say that it is probably not possible to rehabilitate all persons. Crime is such a big part of some people's lives. However, this perspective of incapacitation comes into play, which means that it is actually more difficult to create new victims if you are in prison than if you are out on the streets. Does the Left Party see this perspective too?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-226	Madam President, I would like I agree with Johan Forssell that there are people who are extremely dangerous. The exclusion – a moderate word – that has been created in society when the economic divides have increased has left some people extremely far from society. These people have grown up under harsh conditions and have only learned the criminal identity. There, society has an extremely big challenge. There I would like to see the prison services given a special task in order to be able to target their treatment precisely to these people. I can admit that these people may have to spend a longer time in prison than the time that the Left Party often wants the punishment to be. We want shorter sentences with a really good treatment. However, some individuals may need a slightly longer period in prison for this special treatment to really bite.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-228	Madam President, I would like If you are going to simplify the debate on legal policy in any way, some people claim that crime is something that you are forced to do in a lot of external circumstances and that you relapse into crime, much like being forced into it. Or maybe it's about the theory of the economic man, i.e. that everyone makes perfect rational choices. Reasonably, the truth is somewhere in between. I am no dumber than that I understand that it is no coincidence that people who are in an alienation, or which word they now want to use, are over-represented and that risks are increasing. At the same time, I also see that there are actually people who choose to commit crimes. It's usually said that no one is born a criminal. But quite a few still make a choice. If we are to find a legal policy that is both legally secure and long-term and brings together different perspectives, we must also see the second, which means that there are very many people who are very dangerous and who create victims of crime. I am pleased that the Left Party also sees this perspective.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-230	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that the best way to tackle crime is precisely to reduce the economic gaps in society. That is why I am a feminist and a socialist. I will probably never be able to make that agreement with Johan Forssell and the Moderates. I'm fine, too. Then we need another left-wing government for real. But what we can agree on is how we can develop treatment programmes within the prison system. We must ensure that there are treatment programmes in more languages than Swedish. We know that many of the clients do not have Swedish as their first language. They must, of course, receive good treatment in their native language. We may need to have even more treatment programs with kbt development. I think there's 16 right now. Maybe there's more to it. Then I would like there to be a programme of honour-related problems. Today, there is no treatment programme for those who have committed honour-related crimes. This is something that we really need to introduce in Swedish penitentiary services.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a somewhat tense debate. I would also like to thank the Swedish Democrats who initiated this debate. When we talk about the prison system, we need to see it as an indispensable part of the entire judiciary. As I said in my first speech to the debate, the judiciary is really connected. Statskontoret notes in the report The authorities' forecasts of the flow in the criminal proceedings that within few policy areas state authorities are so dependent on each other as within the legal chain. The Christian Democrats will allocate SEK 2.2 billion more than the government to the entire judiciary for next year. In this debate, we have noted that the Minister of Justice has been very interested in pointing out an initiative that he believes was underfunded in the penal services of the M – KD budget in 2018, despite the fact that it was more than in the government's budget. One can understand why the Minister of Justice is so interested in considering that if you review the government's budget this year – where it was a record-sized space of SEK 105 billion – the government and the January parties are under-funded by the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish courts. I can understand that the Minister of Justice is interested in finding a year in which he believes that the budget was underfunded, even though it was more money in the budget that KD and M presented than in that presented by the government. I believe that the government is failing to see the entire judiciary. That you couldn't shake up 50 million crowns until there was massive pressure from the prosecutors is nothing but a scandal. The Swedish Economic Crime Authority has still not received the SEK 70 million they have demanded, and Sweden's courts are still underfunded. These are three good examples of how badly the government manages the justice system.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-239	Madam President, I would like There's a lot of numbers, and I'm gonna let them go a little bit. However, I would like to reiterate that, for the Liberals, it is crucial that during this term of office we provide at least SEK 10 billion to the judiciary, of which approximately SEK 2.6 billion to the prison service. This is because more places are needed. It needs to mix more cement. New institutions need to be built. They should be filled with good content. However, the main idea of this debate is that we should see what we want to achieve. Then it's better safety. Then I am talking about the safety of employees, and I am talking about the safety of inmates. It's like in the old KSMB song at 8 o'clock that when you unlock and lock again it's quite unpleasant. Madam President, I would like Imagine if I were to be locked up at 8 a.m. every night with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and then released and not have access to very good work, very good treatment and very good education. It's a pretty extensive restriction. We should be aware that the time in prisons is quite serious. Like I said, it's about the content. Up to 2015, there was increased time for work, treatment and education. Since then this has become worse. It means that people come out worse. They're no better when they leave the prison. It is therefore about safety and content, but also about respect for victims of crime. This hugely growing soning line means that people who are condemned and waiting to benefit from their punishment commit new crimes. There's a hole in the head. It's like you want more crime. These people should quickly enter and serve their sentences and come out better. It's also about the efficiency of the police – they have enough to do without having to go around and pick up the same people over and over again – and maybe get these people convicted. Then is consumed, so to speak, the new crime in the old punishment. Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate. I look forward to the long-term government plan.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-245	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to raise my eyes a little. In today's debate on the lack of capacity in prison, I would like to talk about how we are building a society where fewer people need to be locked up in prisons and prisons at all. The crime prevention work has received far too little space in the Swedish criminal debate. We are talking about more stringent penalties, and the right wants to double penalties even when it is not effective. You want to lower taxes and cut down on school. In any case, this is not a recipe for solving the prison system's capacity deficit, it is a recipe that puts even more young people at risk of getting involved in crime, getting a criminal identity and staying in crime for a long time. Those most affected are the victims whom these people will face during their criminal course. I think that Swedish criminal policy debate would benefit from looking at the whole of society. Not least, many people would be spared a great deal of suffering if we focused our efforts where they do the most good to expose as few as possible to crime.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-248	Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that a good policy is one that prevents crime and that the best crime is the one that never happens. Nevertheless, it is a sad observation that many people actually commit crimes. I am somewhat unsure about the position of the Green Party on this issue, but as a moderate I believe that it has its own responsibility for it. You cannot always blame your shortcomings and create victims of crime on someone else or on society, but you have your own responsibility. It is very important here, at least I think, that the rule of law is strong. In fact, if it does not, many people lose out on it, especially those who are victims of a crime – those who are violated, get something stolen or get a sense of getting hurt. I note that the Government of Annika Hirvonen Falk spends the least money in this House on the judiciary. How does this really rhyme with what we have been talking about, that is, preventing crime?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-251	Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with what Johan Forssell says about people having their own responsibility, which he wonders if we also think. Of course they have. But what we as politicians can influence is what conditions children grow up under. Today we have eight to ten-year-olds recruited into crime. These are children who should go to school and dream about, what do I know, football stars and popidoles, but who instead look up to drug dealers. What society can do, and what we can influence, is what I want to debate here today. If we betray these children and do not invest enough in their education and life chances, more people will be subjected to crime.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-253	Madam President, I would like I think we are in broad agreement in this House that all children should have good conditions for growing up. One might perhaps think that it will be a rather relaxed legal policy if the only task of justice policy is to embark on a social project and if the rule of law is never to be seen by the group that actually commits crime. I feel very sceptical about this; I think that many victims would be in very bad shape with the extremely tight and somewhat strange focus. At the same time, I can see that this government in the area by area has failed with what Annika Hirvonen Falk describes. The shootings, explosions and gang crime have increased, but the number of police officers in external service has decreased. The number of places in prison has also decreased over the last ten years. Is this attitude of the Green Party – that justice policy is really about a lot of things other than justice policy itself – the explanation for the many failures? It should be remembered that the Green Party is actually a government party.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-255	Madam President, I would like I cannot help but wonder if Johan Forssell has selective hearing. When I talk about stricter penalties for gun crimes, Johan Forssell seems to think about other things; he only hears when we talk about the long-term crime prevention work. Perhaps it is because this is not so much in a criminal debate that today is marked by populist proposals ranging from doubling the penalties, even though it is ineffective, to building prisons in rogue states. I think the Moderates' criminal policy would also benefit from that perspective. If we want a society that is connected, we need to look at all parts, from making law enforcement effective to ensuring that we have good recidivism work in the prison system and that the recruitment of children to criminal gangs is stopped.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-257	Madam President, I would like I am a little interested in the pace of expansion of our prisons and detention centres in Sweden, which are now deemed insufficient by an increasing number of people. The situation that we have now, with overcrowdings at risk of work and the content of institutions, as well as training and opportunities for people not to relapse into crime and where the security of their staff in the prison care sector is at risk, is planned by the government to last until 2029. My sincere question is: does not more need to be done to ease the situation in the prisons of the inmates, of the staff and of society at large? Is the government satisfied – and I want answers from the government through Annika Hirvonen Falk – with the pace of expansion that one has and with the failure to expel people or get people's punishments to be carried out in their own home countries to a greater extent? Is it really supposed to look like this until 2029? That is my sincere question.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-259	Madam President, I would like Great efforts are being made in the penal services. The Minister of Justice listed some of the expansion plans under way. The Green Party, as one of the government parties, wants to see further efforts to ensure that we do not have overcrowding that risks the safety and quality of recidivism in the prison system. One of the measures that we believe could facilitate this in the rather short term is if, in some cases, the prison services were better able to take decisions on enforcement by foot-and-mouth and intensive surveillance. It is a measure that takes less time to get in place than it takes to build additional prisons, which are needed, both prisons and detention centres.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-261	Madam President, I would like In fact, all the efforts listed by the Minister of Justice and presented by the Government mean that the situation in our institutions will be strained until 2029. If any further measures are to be presented, more prisoners who are going to be in prison will be released into freedom again. More victims will see their perpetrators free on the street because the government's policy is flawed. There must be better solutions to tackle the problems we have with overcrowding in our institutions. One thing is that one third of those admitted to our institutions are foreign citizens. This is where the government has to switch up. It is therefore a third of those who are admitted to our institutions who are foreign citizens. We have agreements within Europe that guarantee that all the judgments imposed on foreign EU citizens in Sweden will be enforced in their own countries. Yet the work is inadequate. Does the Green Party want more foreigners to serve sentences in their own countries?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-263	Madam President, I would like If, for various reasons, it is possible to do so, it is of course positive if they are transferred. But in reality, it doesn't always work. Some of those people have no expulsion decisions but actually have a residence permit in Sweden. Some of the people cannot be expelled because of substandard conditions in the home countries, such as the risk of torture or the death penalty. The Green Party wants to direct aid efforts towards countering rogue regimes and poor e-democratic practices and wants to ensure that human rights are respected throughout the world, unlike other parties who would rather spend aid money on building prisons.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-265	Madam President, I would like I just want to thank you for a good debate. Swedish correctional services are in a rapid phase of expansion. You now have more money than you've had in many years. We also intend to add another 21⁄2 billion over the next three years. There is also a plan for an expansion of 2 000 seats. Of course, if it needs to be revised, we will do so. We will also be working actively on the issue that came up last, that is, the transfer of impunity to other countries. The number of enforcements in other countries has increased by 50 per cent since 2017. We will continue to push for that. To those who work in Swedish penitentiary, I want to say that they are doing an amazing job. It is now a matter of ensuring that we invest in both quality and quantity. Now that we are making the major expansion, it should not go out on the care content and quality of Swedish prison care. I don't want to see that. Everyone who works in prison should know that in the coming years we will continue to invest in both parts, in both quality and quantity.
i-Pqdh2NYZZ8tnLxQpK5pDHC	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs what measures he intends to take to ensure that, in the emerging situation, business and growth in Skåne. The interpellation has been handed over to me. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson addresses the problems of high electricity prices and lack of network capacity in southern Sweden. First of all, let me stress that the Danish industry is paying the lowest electricity prices throughout the European Union. Electricity prices in southern Sweden were indeed high for a few hours this summer, but over the period, electricity prices in Skåne have been the lowest in five years and the second lowest since autumn 2011 when Sweden was divided into bidding zones. With regard to network capacity in southern Sweden, the government, together with the energy industry, already presented a year ago an initiative for increased investments in electricity grids and increased regional impact. With the initiative, sufficient electricity power is secured in southern Sweden. Unfortunately, the Moderates have now chosen not to support the initiative on special investment space for electricity grid operations, which makes the situation uncertain and threatens Skåne's electricity supply. I hope that the Moderates will now assume their responsibilities on this important issue so that business and employment in southern Sweden are not affected. In addition to the initiative, a year ago the Government asked the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to come back with proposals for measures to combat network capacity shortages. We are now going through the proposals and the government intends to come back with measures. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that Swedish power networks are making historically large investments in the capacity of new electricity grids. The next three-year period is planned for investments of SEK 17 billion, compared with SEK 7 billion in the last three years. The project Sydwestlinken has unfortunately been edged by delays but will improve the situation in southern Sweden. Swedish power grids expect to take the new cable into operation on 18 December this year.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-279	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Ygeman for his reply, which then replaces Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan's response. The low prices from this summer are used as a reference point. But there were occasions in July when the costs were totally unacceptable. You could compare with fuel for a car. It would end up at perhaps 140 or 150 kroner per litre. The costs were eleven times as high as in northern Sweden. There was also a situation where there was a real crisis. I was looking at Friday's electric spot prices. In Luleå they were 2.29 and on Saturday 3.36 øre per kilowatt hour. In Sundsvall they were 2.29 öre and on Saturday 3.36 öre per kilowatt hour. In Stockholm they were 3.27 and on Saturday 4.36 øre per kilowatt hour. In Malmö the same price was 31.86 öre on Friday and 33.51 öre per kilowatt hour on Saturday. This means that Luleå has prices of 3,36 öre and that Malmö has prices of 33,51 öre. In Skåne you pay ten times more. If we round off, you pay about seven times more than in Stockholm. To use the government's own rhetoric, the price difference has never been so great in Sweden before, which I would like to emphasise. What does the Minister of Energy think if it happens again, and if, in an already extremely strained situation, there are longer time aspects where these are going to be fixed prices? I would say that Skåne is the victim of a double blow. First of all, the costs to businesses and consumers, now in mild November, are ten times higher than in the northern part of the country. The problem of capacity shortages also means that the Scanian companies cannot develop their activities. I feel that the energy minister's answer is that the situation may not be taken seriously. It is constantly referred to the fact that we are well off in our country as far as electricity is concerned. If this is the attitude towards the situation in southern Sweden, it should be clearly stated by the government that this is not very dangerous and that there is no concern for consumers and companies who want to establish themselves in that part of the country. What I get is that the southern part of the country is now unable to receive more industry and basics. We can't handle what's out there. Höganäs AB can be an example. Höganäs AB needs and must have promise of electricity supply in order to be able to develop. It is a company that is a world leader and works in its market with technologies that make their production much more sustainable than anyone else's. A couple of years ago, Ystad was on the wallpaper. Then you could not make coffee in the morning unless one company took out the contact when the other would put it in. Örkelljunga municipality is the subject of inquiries, but due to the fact that already established companies are using power and the municipality cannot produce more effect, other companies answer that it is not possible to establish themselves in the municipality. In that case, an energy company would have to set up a new station, and the cost of it would be 50 billion. That can't be the way it's supposed to be by 2020. Business creation cannot and should not take place in just certain regions. We can compare with Norrland. They also have very good projects under way. They have initiative and innovation, such as steel without coal. They will eat up energy and use their own energy. At least that's the clear signal they're sending. I don't want us to end up there. I want every opportunity in this country. All companies, large and small, must be able to equip themselves well and contribute to growth and prosperity in the future.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-290	Madam President, I would like Let me make a few basic points. When Sweden introduced electricity pricing areas, Sweden had a moderate government. A decision by the EU Court of Justice forced electricity pricing areas in Sweden, and it was implemented by the moderate-led government. The idea of electricity price areas is that market incentives should increase electricity generation in areas where there is less electricity generation than the market seeks on the basis of price incentives. If the Moderates have changed their mind since the introduction of electricity pricing areas, they are welcome to tell the House and also how to escape the judgment of the European Court of Justice that forced the moderate-led government to introduce electricity pricing areas. Let me also state that since the presentation of the joint initiative by the government and the energy industry, there is no one who has been denied accession by increased impact in Skåne due to a lack of capacity. Together with the Chamber of Commerce in Skåne and the regional electricity grid suppliers, I have noted this. However, there are a number of other problems, just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson expresses. This applies, for example, to a company, which she also mentions, which is in conflict with the network owner about who will pay SEK 3 million for the electricity line required. It is quite natural to have a conflict about something like that, but it has nothing to do with the capacity. In addition, a municipality is raised where the question is whether to expand the electricity to such a large extent that a new transformer station is required. I believe, moreover, that this is about 50 million and not 50 billion. Otherwise it would be a very expensive station. That's where the electric law is based. Anyone who needs such a significant increase in the yield that such an investment needs to be made shall also account for a large part of that investment. The alternative, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, I do not think the Moderates claim, namely that all other electricity consumers should account for the investment that only one electricity consumer needs. It is certainly a more socialist order, but it is not the order that is laid down in law in Sweden. In fact, I think we agree on the order that will apply in the future. The joint initiative is interesting. It still saved combined heat and power in Malmö. It guaranteed electricity power over the next ten years in Skåne. It gave expansion opportunities for Scanian business. But when this initiative was presented to the House, the Moderates voted against it. If the Moderates are so concerned about an alleged lack of capacity in Skåne, one might ask why they voted against the initiative that would guarantee the very effect and capacity that they themselves seek.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-295	Madam President, I would like The Government of Anders Ygeman has already corrected me, but of course I will also say that it was of course about millions and not billions so that we are on the right track here. Let me begin with the last part, which was about what the Moderates have said and how the Moderates have acted. Well, I guess you'll have to describe the situation. Someone is putting forward proposals which do not contain follow-up and which can be significantly improved in order to achieve an effective implementation. When six out of eight parties say that they want it to be done again or that one should look at a certain thing, it is clear that this is important. This is what we are looking for, i.e. a real change. As soon as such a written proposal with various points is put on the table, we will not support anything other than what will be effective in the future. As far as electricity areas are concerned, all governments have their advantages and disadvantages when making decisions. Some could have been further improved, and in some situations you do what you have to do because of the periodic penalty payments and other things. It's still six years since this happened. It might have been hoped that the government could have grasped that something had happened afterwards. Madam President, I would like I'm going back to the Scanian companies. Together, they employ more than 380 000 people. The more they get, the better it is for the welfare and the growth of the country. On average, each new employee contributes tax to the country. We want people to work even after covid-19. This provides a number of services in preschool and health care. Skåne is a region with higher unemployment than the rest of the country. As in other places, the number of unemployed has increased sharply during this period. At the same time as Region Skåne, together with the Skåne municipalities, is struggling for more people to have a job to go to, the Swedish Growth Agency states in a report that up to 19 000 fewer people can be employed in Skåne in 2040 – this as a consequence of the electricity picture. This is what is cloun on the issue and what is urgent: how do we move forward now? Sweden is backing into the future when we do not have electricity capacity by 2020. We are supposed to be a country at the forefront in both Europe and the world. We must both make companies grow throughout the country and make companies in our country want to establish themselves internationally in the future. We have decided that Sweden should be a country that talks about fossil freedom; in any case, I am talking about the fossil-free. Others may speak only of sustainability. I hope that this is about the fossil-free, because it is an important and extremely urgent issue. We are talking about digitalisation, automation and robotics in much of the business world. We are also talking about electrification of the transport system. This is the solution for the future. This is what we've been saying we should do. While we're stuck, we're gonna change the world around us. If we stand on the negative side of the electricity and consume more – and will consume even more, as Iva says – it will still be 50 – 60 percent more. It is therefore important that we take up the height of this and catch up so that we get ahead and can be a country where there is a safe supply of electricity in the future. We're not quite there now, as I see it.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-302	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. Despite the tone at the beginning, I can see that we seem to agree on most of it. The Moderates think the order we have in the electric team is good. Then Höganäs and the net owner will have to sort out their conflict on their own. The government has taken a joint initiative with others to ensure that all Scanian companies' known capacity and expansion needs are guaranteed. The Moderates have voted against this in this House. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson now claims to be in favour of the proposal. It remains to be seen what happens next time we go to the vote in plenary – if there is another vote. Until then, the parties that voted against the proposal are, of course, the greatest concern for Skåne's companies. They're the ones who can shut down the possibility of expansion. I would also like to remind you that we have the largest electricity surpluses ever in Swedish history. We export as much electricity as three-quarters of all Denmark's electricity consumption. Also the coldest winter day in Skåne and one day with the largest capacity utilisation we export electricity. We also import electricity. It is part of a free market that benefits Swedish consumers, and I think the Moderates are also in favour of it. Madam President, I would like It is of course reasonable for a Scanian MP to raise Scanian issues in the Riksdag. I support that. But I also note that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson will at best be up to the same level as the government in terms of measures that can guarantee Skåne's electricity supply for the next ten years. At worst, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and the Moderates turn off the light for Skåne's company's expansion opportunities.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-306	Madam President, I would like I can imagine that I could also have stood in this speaker's chair if it was Norway that was in the same position as Skåne. Now it's not like that, it's about Skåne. And I happen to live there. No, Anders Ygeman, you can't put the words in my mouth and say that we are in complete agreement and that we share the same view, because we don't. There is much more to be discussed on this issue. No matter how big an effort you say you are doing – that is what you say in every question – this is about a long-standing backlog that has made us now stuck where we are doing. The interpellation response contains positive elements, and one claims to want to do things. We'll have to evaluate the crisis package objectively. It is important to know if the right things have been done, that they are done there and then and that things have been done quickly to get there. But what can we learn from this for tomorrow? Höganäs AB, Pågen, Polykemi, Lindab and others must have electricity capacity, and our municipalities must be able to build and connect internationally. Everything must work and be able to evolve. It is important to get analyses and situational pictures for the future. It requires the government to look at the decisions that have been taken and what is going on in the future. I can see that you are about to do so, but please hurry! Get reports out! It was warned earlier about Malmö, Västerås and Uppsala. It could be a situation where we're stuck. Then it is important to be able to do the right things and be prepared. It also requires investigation. Authorities must be asked to look at the question of whether it is possible to pay for capacity and use of power. Last but not least: in view of this discussion, which I would have liked to have said more about, which I do not have the opportunity to do in this speech, I would like to ask the Government to really take on the concerns of Skåne and give a little more information from the government. We must not end up in a situation where we have plenty of electricity for a number of days a year but do not have it the day it goes off.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-314	Madam President, I would like I take absolute concerns in Skåne seriously. But it must also be based on actual facts. When we presented a joint initiative guaranteeing capacity for ten years, the Moderates voted against. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asks if the right things are done with this initiative. We only know if Parliament supports this. If the Moderates and other parties maintain their no, we know that none of these things are being done. Then there will be no district heating in Malmö, no flex markets, no transition to Swedish biogas etc. If we are to take these concerns seriously, then step one is to take the necessary measures to guarantee capacity. The government has done its part. Now it is up to the Moderates and the other parties to do their part. I think that's where you have to decide which foot to stand on. I have explained a number of things that the government does in addition to the joint initiative. I can tell you about a few more. We have given assignments to Skåne County Governor and County Administrative Board, among others, who have written a report on the measures that increase capacity. That mission also received four other governors, who have also reported back to the government. We have developed a network capacity study that will halve the construction time of some important lines and cut it by several years for other lines. We in the government are therefore taking a number of measures – not that we should have a capacity shortage or a power shortage now, but that we should expand and electrify Sweden to meet the climate challenge and an expanding industry.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-316	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me First of all, I can see that Sweden has historically large electricity surpluses. I am pleased that we have been successful in attracting industry to Sweden, such as Northvolt, Facebook and Google. I am aware that there are places in Sweden where the capacity of the electricity grids today cannot cope with the connection of new industries; there is a need for network reinforcements. The data centre industry is an electricity-intensive industry operating in international competition. Aid through a reduction in the energy tax on electricity is therefore considered reasonable. At the same time, tax expenditure, in accordance with the tax policy guidelines, should be subject to regular review. In Sweden, new users are required to connect to the network. However, network operators have the right to refuse connection if there is no capacity in the network. It is thus a dialogue between connecting parties and network operators. If they cannot agree, the matter is ultimately examined by the Energy Market Inspectorate. At the same time, no actor can expect that there will always and everywhere be room for connecting new large electricity users to the grid. As the electricity grids are ultimately funded by users, such an electricity grid would be unreasonably expensive for consumers and industry. The government and the network companies in Malmö and Stockholm took a joint initiative last autumn to ensure the capacity in Malmö and Stockholm in both the short and long term. At the same time, the Government instructed the Swedish Energy Market Authority to investigate and propose measures to ensure capacity in other parts of Sweden. The mission was handed over to the Government on 1 October 2020. The Government will analyse the proposals in order to ensure that responsible actors take the necessary measures to ensure that there is capacity for existing customers and that additional customers receive electricity within a reasonable time. Finally, I would also like to take this opportunity to mention that Swedish power networks are making historically large investments in new electricity grid capacity. The next three-year period is planned for investments of SEK 17 billion, compared with SEK 7 billion in the last three years.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-322	Madam President, I would like Minister of Energy Ygeman notes that Sweden has historically large electricity surpluses, but that there are areas in Sweden where electricity grid capacity cannot cope with connection of new industries without network reinforcements. This is exactly what the Aftonbladet journalists who have done this study point out; they have been granted permission to build energy-consuming server halls in areas where there is already a shortage of network capacity. The articles also mention that Amazon has accounted for the amount of assets their server halls require. They need to build large diesel generators that correspond to the consumption in the event of power failure. Is this where the customers' millions should go, and in exchange for what? We know that this does not generate the amount of jobs envisaged. We also know that some of these companies are harmful both to industrial development and to workers' rights. I note that the Minister does not mention Amazon in his reply. It is important not to back up such companies, unlike Northvolt, a company that contributes to the transformation. Is this the way forward – to authorise energy-consuming companies in areas where there is a shortage of capacity?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-325	Madam President, I would like That is a question that cannot easily be answered with a yes or a no. The reason for this is that we basically have an accession obligation in Sweden. Where an undertaking applies for capacity, that undertaking shall also obtain capacity where it exists. The Swedish Energy Market Authority is now discussing in accordance with the mandate given to it by the Government whether to extend the obligation to connect, so that network companies will also be allowed to purchase capacity on the market. On the whole, I welcome the fact that people choose to locate server halls to Sweden, especially if we can control it in such a way that they interfere in those parts of Sweden where we have large overcapacity in terms of both grid and power output. Server halls are a power-consuming industry. Sweden can in principle offer completely fossil-free electricity and very much renewable electricity. Then it is also reasonable for these companies to choose to interfere in a country like Sweden – or in one of our Scandinavian neighbours, which also has very good renewable energy assets. I welcome them to Sweden. We give them the same conditions of competition in Sweden as other companies that use a lot of electricity. But we will also make demands on them. They must maintain a high environmental standard, use the heat in the district heating network, so that we can help reduce the need for bioenergy in the district heating network, as well as create reserve power markets, support service markets, so that the spare power available can be used on the network otherwise. Of course, their back-up power will be renewable, just like any other back-up power in Sweden. I told you earlier about the joint initiative, where we exchanged fossil oil for bio oil and fossil gas for biogas. Of course, we want the entire Swedish industry to do that.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-328	Madam President, I would like It may require more concrete work and a change in order to get these companies to join areas where we have the capacity. In this way, we do not risk other companies that do not have that opportunity. Madam President, I would like Minister Ygeman also mentions that Swedish power networks make historically large investments in new electricity grid capacity. But once again, it is the citizens who have to pay at the end of the day. Investment is good, and development is needed. We know that digitalisation and the transition to renewable energy will require much more. But it is investment that should benefit us all and not a few. It is resources we do not see again when liberalisation is fundamentally a system error. I can also note that the answer given by Minister Ygeman leaves smaller companies in the hands of the market, even though we know how much small and medium-sized enterprises contribute. Those numbers are different from the tech giants.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-332	Madam President, I would like Not only small companies are left to the market but also large companies. Basically, we have a free market where electricity grid owners have a connection obligation. Lorena Delgado Varas calls for more governance and coordination of where the companies establish themselves. I can only agree with that. There's more to do. We will also make sure that we can both attract server halls and ensure that they end up in places in the electricity grid where there is spare capacity.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-334	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that the Left Party wants to see a re-regulation of the electricity grid. The step that the government is taking today is to patch up a non-functioning system that is not sustainable in the long run. In principle, this means that we have to bribe the electricity grid companies with the consumer's money, i.e. your money and my money, to get them to even invest and maintain properly. Liberalisation has actually meant that the government is responsible for the high costs with consumers. The winners are the electricity grid companies. Instead, we should pay less, and the network should be nationalised. That nationalisation would give us the freedom to plan according to needs and future developments. Madam President, I would like The Left Party also puts small and medium-sized enterprises first. If State aid is to be granted, it is to be granted in the first place. It is small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs and drive development forward. Therefore, large tech giants should not be allowed to install wherever they want, but the space should be provided where there is the opportunity to cover the needs. Liberalisation is in fact a flop for consumers, future planning, maintenance and job security.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-338	Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that it is in small and medium-sized enterprises that jobs and value are created. I myself am probably so Marxist that I believe that it is labour that creates all value regardless of the form of organization in which it is made. We are not subsidising small or large companies. We have a reduction in the tax on electricity-intensive industries. When it comes to the electricity grid, regardless of the organisational form in which it should be operated, for the first time in 26 years we have reduced electricity grid prices in Sweden, for the benefit of consumers.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-340	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me when the government will present new initiatives to strengthen the school's work on issues of extremism and radicalisation. Roger Haddad has also asked me if the government plans to commission the National Board of Education to develop a model for how it can interact with the police and the National Board of Health and Welfare in order to improve both national and local practices in the work against violent extremism. Finally, Roger Haddad has asked how the government intends to strengthen the protection of school staff. I take very seriously the bestial teacher's murder that has occurred in France and have presented it to the French Minister for Education. There should be no place at all for extremism in school, and teachers should feel safe and have the support of the whole community when they address issues such as fundamental rights and freedoms. The school's work against extremism begins in the school's democratic mission. Students should learn about democracy and human rights. G democratic values and respect for human rights must permeate the school's learning environment. The goal is for students to develop abilities to actively work in democracy. To discuss with students the importance of freedom of expression for democracy and the responsibility that freedom also holds are important elements of this work. It is important that teachers do not back down for the difficult conversations. In order to combat extremism and radicalisation, it is better for controversial issues to come up in the classroom under the guidance of educated teachers than for young people to test the boundaries of democracy and extreme views in closed forums beyond the school's ability to influence. The school plays an important role in the prevention of violent extremism, a role that requires teachers to be given good conditions by principals and principals. The school system and the Segerstedt Institute at the University of Gothenburg offer support on these issues. The school has also been commissioned by the government to define the role of the school system in the work against violent extremism. Like UNESCO and the Council of Europe, the school's main role is to strengthen students in critical reflection and source criticism in order to resist violent messages, conspiracy and false news. In addition, a staff member of the school who becomes aware or suspects that a child is being misreported to the social welfare board shall report it to the social welfare board. Radicalisation and connection to extremism can be a reason for school staff to file a complaint. It is then the social services that have the task, if necessary, to investigate the suspicion and offer support and assistance. The government has also established a national centre against violent extremism, CVE, within the Crime Prevention Council. For example, C VE has the task of strengthening and developing the preventive work against violent extremism and providing support for various actors who in their activities deal with these issues. The sector is a target group for the school sector. All forms of threats and violence against teachers and other school staff are totally unacceptable. In its proposal, the Government announced the need for a continued analysis of the societal functions that are in need of enhanced criminal protection and how such protection can be achieved. Therefore, on 14 May 2020, the Government set up an investigation to assess the societal benefits of enhanced criminal justice protection and how such protection can best be achieved. The assignment shall be presented no later than 12 November 2021. In this context, it should also be mentioned that the Government has given the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Sciences the task of carrying out early and coordinated development work for children and young people. It includes targeting specific efforts towards risk groups among children and young people in socially vulnerable areas and focusing on structures for collaboration that work over time, are of high quality and are based on the needs of all children and young people. Madam President, I would like The government is prepared to take further steps to strengthen the school's work against extremism and radicalisation.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for the answer to my interpellation, which I put after the terrible attacks in France, which hit both Paris and Nice! Among other things, it was a history teacher who was bestially murdered by radical violent Islamists. The violent Islamist extremism, if not the only environment, is one of the environments that mainly threaten our democracy. For many years now, we have had major concerns about domestic extremism in our local community. This has been confirmed, among other things, by the Security Service. There are thousands of people who have been listed in the violent environments, from right-wing extremism to radical Islamism. This is an obligation. One of the areas we are trying to raise in particular is the important role of the school. Everyone usually says that if you are to work preventively – not only crime prevention but also, not least, in terms of democratic values and the democratic mission – it is ultimately the school and the teachers who have this important mission. I was surprised, Madam President, that the answer came so quickly. However, after reading through the answers to my questions, I think that it is very much hope-locked by what has been going on, but it is not so much new. One of my questions, Madam President, was what new initiatives the Government intends to take to strengthen the work against radicalisation and extremism. Unfortunately, I do not receive such an answer. Reference is made to a previous school work assignment. But it was rereported in 2018, and one was in on some of the issues I was discussing: If one is to strengthen and improve our work towards principals, school leaders, principals and teachers who face many of these difficult issues in the classroom, one must, i.e. the Swedish National Agency for Education, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the police, get a much clearer mission from the government and government. And you haven't got that, from what I understand. There is also reference to an investigation, which is, admittedly, very important in terms of socially beneficial functions. But it is not relevant to this debate at all, because nowhere in the 13-page committee directive is the school, the teachers or the education mentioned. Instead, it focuses on other important professions in society. This debate and this interpellation is about how I as principal or, more often, as a teacher should act when a student suddenly hux flux begins to deny the Holocaust and that it has happened. Or what do I do if a student suddenly becomes radical and starts quoting the Qur'an? This is a concrete example I hear of when I am out discussing these issues in schools, but also with the authorities involved in the problem area. Finally, reference is also made to the assignment of the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Education. However, Madam President, my questions about violent extremism are not borne by that either. The project is completed, and the final report will be sent to the government in a few months' time. But there is focus on student health, mental illness and honour problems. These are important areas in themselves, but this is not a response to what Liberals are asking for when it comes to how Sweden, which has problems with radicalisation and domestic extremism, should strengthen teachers' work to prevent and prevent this.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-357	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad complains that in my reply I am reporting a great deal that has been done in this area. It is a criticism that is very easy to bear. This is an area where several initiatives have been taken. As I pointed out in my reply to Roger Haddad, I have left the door completely open because more may need to be done. But I almost thought that Roger Haddad himself was into what, at least in my opinion, is the most important thing. No matter how many action plans and how many activities we decide on, no matter how much extra money we give and no matter how much reporting requirements we impose on the authorities, the really important thing, Roger Haddad, will always be what happens in the classroom – in the meeting between the teacher and the student. Our teachers have a difficult task but also a very important task. As Roger Haddad said, there are a number of very serious threats to our society that the Security Service reports. It can be about Islamism, and it can be about right-wing radical movements. I think we agree that the absolute best thing we can do in Sweden is to ensure that our young people are vaccinated against radicalisation and extremism and against the kind of criminal movements that are close to these views. And where is this vaccination better than in school, in the classroom, in a teacher who is educated, who has time, has resources, who has his school management in his back and who has the whole community in his back? It should be a teacher who also gets such competence development and development in his profession that he or she can cope with and manage to take these very difficult conversations. Madam President, I would like The research shows that when radical opinions are expressed in a classroom – opinions that run counter to the school's values and opinions that run counter to what we in our democratic society want young people to grow up and develop into – the easiest thing a teacher can do is a teacher who doesn't have the time or the resources and doesn't have the support of the school management, to pretend you didn't hear. The second easiest thing is simply to drive the student out. The most difficult thing, but what the research shows has the greatest impact, is to take a conversation with a student in an environment that is perhaps even threatening. This work deserves the greatest respect. In my work, I want to ensure that teachers receive support, resources and time in the form of skills development, in the form of the explicit and clear support of society and in the form of school leaders who support them when they do this. It is perhaps the teachers' most important mission, and we will ensure that they receive the support they need. That is why, Madam President, I am also a little proud that the policy we stand for is a policy that so clearly focuses on giving the teacher support to carry out her work in the classroom. That is much, much more important than any number of action plans.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-364	Madam President and the Government. I cannot take responsibility for the fact that the government, in its response to my three questions, refers to previous works and completed projects and decisions. That responsibility is left to the Government to take responsibility for its response. I am critical of these references, because they are not directly relevant and do not respond to the demands made by the Liberals on the government that we need to change up and improve. This is not about an additional action plan, but the Swedish National Agency for Education has said in its recommendation 2018 to the Government: We want to work, and we see a need to improve our work together with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Police Authority. But now that it has been two more years and we are at the end of 2020, they have not yet received such a mandate. There is no such assignment between the Swedish National Agency for Education, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Police Authority. The answer also refers, Madam President, to the Centre against violent extremism. I have followed it from the beginning because I sat in the negotiations on terrorism both in 2015 and 2017, when we, the six parties that sat around the table, decided to permanentize the national coordinator against violent extremism, which then became Cent you against violent extremism under the Crime Prevention Council. I have checked how they work, and they cannot be as operational as I would have liked. They provide support, they participate in conferences and they produce important materials. But when you listen and read between the lines how they have prioritised their time, you see that it is usually social services that they talk about. I have courted and visited this important center, and they also highlight the important role of the school. But it is different from the Government's response, where it says that staff in the school system is a target group for the operation. If I listen carefully to the center, I hear they say they haven't really had time to prioritise contact. Sure– they have some meeting per year or if there is something emergency about the National Agency for Education. But it is not that they have a clear mission or that this is in the ordinary business. They themselves argue – if I interpret their message correctly – that we need to do more about the school, the principals and the teachers. This actually reinforces, Madam President, what I am referring to: we need to do more at national and state level to strengthen the prevention of violent extremism and radicalisation. It always sounds like this when you debate these issues with the Social Democrats. I have been dealing with these issues for almost eight years, and we agree on a great deal. But it is not enough to agree, it is not enough to think that this is serious, it is not enough for us to strengthen the school and it is not enough for terrorism to be tackled if we do nothing. We have had debates today on both secular schools and extremist schools which are not secular. The other day it was reported that state subsidies to non-democratic organisations are still being paid out and that the regulatory framework has not been tightened, although this was a point on which we in the various parties agreed already in June 2015. We may therefore agree on the problem, but that is not enough. It is important, whether you are Minister of Justice, Minister of Home Affairs or Minister of Education, that you also deliver.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-373	Madam President, I would like It is a true pleasure to deliver important policies in this area. I would like to begin by thanking Roger Haddad for the announcement that the Centre against violent extremism, before the Member of Parliament, states that there is not enough time to have contact with the school. It is an information that I will follow up and that I will take with me. I think it is incredibly important that our authorities have effective cooperation. I also know that we do not really need any mandates from the Government Office in order for the authorities to cooperate. I am so old, Madam President, that I remember when it was stated in the statute of works that the authorities should hand each other over. With a little more modern language, it is stated in today's government regulation that the authorities should cooperate. However, I will naturally follow up on the questions Mr Roger is asking and I am grateful for this information. At the end of his speech, Roger Haddad says: That is not enough. There's got to be more. I am pleased that we are here today, the day after we have seen the application of the stricter legislation decided by the Parliament about two years ago and which gave the authorities an opportunity to make a much tougher ownership and management test that can ensure that inappropriate and criminal owners are not in the school world. I am proud to belong to a party that voted in favour of that bill.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-378	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely proud that the Liberals are the parliamentary party that has paid most and most attention to the issues of extremism in school and hunted Social Democratic governments, regardless of whether the minister has been named Anna Ekström, Anders Ygeman or Morgan Johansson. The fact that we still have such schools in operation shows that school policy has failed. The fact that Römosseskolan in Gothenburg only in May was decided to expand its operations is due to the fact that there are still gaps in the school law that need to be closed. However, this debate is about how the state can go in and support the teaching staff and the principals in their mission. It is not true, as it is referred to, that if you see radicalisation and a link with extremism, you can only make a statement of concern. That's not what the National Agency for Education went out with in 2018. It would be preferable not to go into this type of action. As confirmed by the Centre against Violent Extremism, this lack of clarity about methods and working methods has done that many efforts will cease as soon as one enters the School Department and school area. That is what is at the heart of this interpellation debate. Sweden is far behind in the fight against terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. If we are to get to the indigenous extremism that we see around our society, we must, the Liberals say, start school. Thank you for the debate.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-382	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Roger Haddad for bringing these crucial issues to Parliament's table. Our society is threatened by extremism and radicalisation. We have a terrorist threat hanging over us. The threat of terrorism, says the Swedish Security Service, comes mainly from Islamic and right-wing radical circles. It is a very important task for our society as a whole, not least for school, to ensure that we can give our young people who are growing up as good opportunities as we can only be bold and with democratic tools to contribute to our democratic society, not to counteract it. If we're going to succeed, school is important, and most importantly, the teacher. I would like to take this opportunity to express my strong sympathy and sympathy for the French school which suffered such a terrible loss when the teacher Samuel Paty lost his life. That very evening, I was already in contact with my colleague Jean-Michel-Michel Blanquer, who is Minister of Education in France, and expressed the dismay and sorrow we felt in Sweden, we who are in the Swedish school. I still feel that it is an inviting duty for all democrats to stand up for our school to have a democratic mission. Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the opportunity to discuss these important issues!
i-ebaa496a384116ee-386	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I have a comprehensive national picture of how extensive the cheating is regarding the Folkbildningsrådet's grant payments. He has also asked me how to ensure that the study associations meet the basic requirement laid down by the Riksdag, namely to strengthen and develop democracy, unless the Folkbildningsrådet knows which partners and local associations, such as Ibn Rushd, cooperate with. Furthermore, Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how I intend to resolve that the Folkbildningsrådet does not meet the government's requirements for government grants. He has also asked me why I have not followed up the Swedish National Audit Office's follow-up report to correct identified shortcomings and whether I intend to now take initiatives in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's requirements. Finally, Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether I intend to take steps to change the rules so that the study associations cannot accumulate large amounts of money while State subsidies are constantly increasing. First of all, Madam President, I would like to stress that the actors in public education have a great responsibility to ensure that state aid is used properly. Cheating with state subsidies is contrary to the foundations of public education. The improper use of the benefit system and the use of tax resources other than those for which they are intended will not be accepted. Every crown of education that goes to other than folk education is one less crown for those who need study circles, reading, culture and education. According to law, the Folkbildningsrådet has been given the task of examining questions about the distribution of state grants between folk high schools, student associations and student organisations within the folk high school. It is the Folkbildningsrådet that decides which associations of students can participate in the state support for adult education according to the regulation(2015:218) on state grants to adult education. It is also the Folkbildningsrådet that monitors and reviews activities linked to the state grant. It is essential that control mechanisms are in place when state subsidies have been incorrectly used. The Government therefore demands that the Folkbildningsrådet be monitored and reported on the state grant. The Folkbildningsrådet takes an emerging situation of subsidy fraud very seriously and, together with the study associations, carries out extensive work to identify the fraud detected. The Folkbildningsrådet also works to review its procedures and state grant conditions. At the Board meeting of the Folkbildningsrådet on 9 September, decisions were made on measures that will tighten state grant conditions and strengthen the Public Education Council's office with a particular focus on developing control and follow-up work. Department of Education for a close dialogue with the Folkbildningsrådet on this ongoing work. Furthermore, the government has made it clear that government grants should not be given to organisations that carry out activities that run counter to the ideas of democracy. I would like to emphasise that the funds paid to study associations should contribute to the fulfilment of the State's objectives with the state grant. Developing and strengthening democracy is one of these aims. Each individual study association has, under the terms of the state grant decided by the Board of the National Education Council, the responsibility to ensure that any arrangement organised on the basis of the state grant complies with the state grant conditions. The Folkbildningsrådet has the opportunity to claim back state grants if the state grant has not been used for the intended purpose. As mentioned above, the Folkbildningsrådet is working to strengthen its control and follow-up of the state grant. In order to ensure that public funds only go to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society, the Government appointed in 2018 an investigation that was tasked with reviewing the democratic conditions in the state grant to civil society and proposing a clarified, legally secure and uniform democracy condition. The report was submitted to the responsible Minister in the summer of 2019. The report contains proposals for a clearer and uniform democracy condition for state grants to civil society organisations. The proposals also cover the regulations on state aid to adult education. The report has been referred, and the Council intends to come back during its term of office with proposals for a new democracy condition. In addition, the Government has indicated in its decision on guidelines for the Council of People's Education for 2020 that the Council will provide an in-depth assessment of how the state grant's so-called democratic aims have been achieved in the course of its accounting of the 2020 activities. Based on the report on Ibn Rushd's activities commissioned by the Board of Folkbildningsrådet in 2018, the Council's Board of Directors has concluded that the state grant was not incorrectly used on the basis of the state's purpose with the state grant to strengthen and develop democracy. At the same time, the report shows the need for further development for Ibn Rushd and for general education. On the basis of the report's conclusions, the Folkbildningsrådet started work on strengthening and developing the Council's follow-up to the whole process of adult education, which has resulted, among other things, in the measures decided by the Council's Governing Board in September. As regards the Swedish National Audit Office's follow-up report from 2015, I would like to highlight, in line with the Swedish Audit Office's report, that both the Government and the Swedish Public Education Council have taken several steps to address the shortcomings identified by the Swedish National Audit Office in its review. The Ministry of Education is currently reviewing whether further measures need to be taken to strengthen the Swedish Public Education Council's work on monitoring and control of state grants to study associations. With regard to the question of the accumulation of equity by study associations, I would like to stress once again that the state contribution should go exclusively to the intended purposes of the grant. As I mentioned earlier, the Folkbildningsrådet may recover the grant in the event that it has not been used for the purpose for which it was granted. Several measures are therefore taken together to ensure that the state contribution to the formation of the population is used as it is intended. I'm following this work closely. Finally, I cannot stress enough that state contributions to the education of the people should go exclusively to activities that fulfil the aims of the state with the grant and strengthen our common democracy.
i-HQWtWV4GGQpjwDZc53j9pv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Ekström, for your answer. The origin of this interpellation was the data that TV4 presented earlier this autumn when they showed the cheating that had been discovered in Järva outside Stockholm. 291 000 study hours were removed from a study association, and eight out of the ten study associations were found to be involved. It was rents that had been paid both one, two and three times, and it was businesses that did not exist. Then there were signals from around the country that this occurs elsewhere as well. I had a question about this in the interpellation that I was not allowed to answer. If we are told that there is a lot of cheating in one part of Stockholm – in one of the study associations, one third of the activity was deleted – there should be a lot of interest in really getting to the bottom of it and looking at what it looks like in the rest of the country. With regard to what the Swedish National Audit Office said five years ago about self-control being unreasonable, my question is: How can the Minister think that self-control is the right way to go anyway? It will be as strange as if we said that the religions would distribute funds to themselves. But they cannot do so, but it is a special authority that does. This is what the Swedish National Audit Office pointed out, i.e. that external audits are needed to see that this is right. The way it is now is as strange as saying that you would have self-control when it comes to speeding. That might seem nice to some, Madam President, but we cannot have it that way. Time and again internal reports now show that there is widespread cheating. It is also a system error when it comes to having volume requirements. Then it has come into the wrong hands – partners for Ibn Rushd have the most terrible activities in Gothenburg, for example. There are imams who preach that Jews are pigs; they have the most terrible anti-Semitic activities. And it's only 5% that's being checked out! That's what's so unreasonable. You say yourself in Ibn Rushd's case that you've looked at 20%. But, Madam President, there will be 80% left! Now, if it turns out that we have these problems, how can you imagine dealing with them? It is, of course, the study associations themselves in the cooperation body Folkbildningsrådet, which is mainly made up of them themselves, which then distributes the money. If it has not worked, should it not be reasonable to say that you have to find other means, especially when the Swedish National Audit Office has said this? When it comes to conflict, we know how important it is whether we are in Parliament or in the municipal council of Örkelljunga, Ödeshög or Stockholm. If it's a bitch, you get to go out. But here it is the same people who examine each other. There are very good activities, and both the Minister and I can tell you how good it has been historically. But now it's another time. I know that the Government itself is committed to anti-Semitism. But there are now countless examples that Ibn Rushd is also related to the Muslim Brotherhood. Such connections are unhappiness, so we need to change.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-416	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll just have to start by trying to sing up after our little stop. I have to start by saying that I was almost devastated when I listened to Mikael Oscarsson's speech, where he complained that I had left something out in my reply. It is by far the longest answer I have ever given to an interpellation, perhaps because there were very many and very long questions in the interpellation. I really hope that I will be able to answer all the questions. I would like to pick up some of the things that Mikael Oscarsson raised in his speech and point out that the report that came from the Swedish National Audit Office quite many years ago is a report that has been very important and that has brought about changes for both the Government and the Council of Folkbildningsrådet's way of working. The Swedish National Audit Office has also confirmed in a follow-up that most of the information in the report is taken care of. What the Swedish National Audit Office itself says is not taken care of is above all the objectives that are described and that are about meeting a certain number of elements. They count, so to speak, how much you've accomplished. I can certainly agree with the National Audit Office. To the extent that Mikael Oscarsson is personally critical of this way of measuring the business, I humbly admit that there are problems with counting sticks, keeping track of all the elements or how many actions are taken. However, it is a problem in this area that is shared with quite a few areas. We want the state to keep an eye on the efficient and efficient use of the money. It is therefore quite common to have this type of accounting, which must always be combined with clear high-quality objectives and evaluations. To the extent that criticism can be levelled at this, it is a criticism that can be levelled at quite a lot that we do in our tax-funded activities. Mikael Oscarsson made a big point of keeping track of what is happening, and I agree, Madam President. We're gonna keep an eye on the tax crowns. The money we spend on public education should go to public education. But we should also have a great respect for a principle that was kneed already under the construction of the folk home – I think it was 1944 – when it was said that the education of the people would be free and voluntary. Society is bigger than the state. There may be very important and useful activities to be carried out but not within the state's activities. Therefore, it is an important principle that peoples' education is free and voluntary or, in order to use Olof Palme's well-known expression: Sweden is a study circle democracy.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-422	Madam President, I would like What is at the heart of the criticism from me and from the Swedish National Audit Office is the lack of external control. It's all internal control. Here in the Riksdag, we have established the mission of the Folkbildningsrådet to strengthen and develop democracy. But how can it be checked if the Folkbildningsrådet cannot even control the partners? Ibn Rushd, for example, said that they had 205 partners. The crux of the matter is that it becomes completely unreasonable when we now see that there is cheating and the worst form of anti-Semitism. I know we share the fight against anti-Semitism, but I want to see even more commitment from the Government. The municipalities can do audits, but from the state side it is almost zero. For example, the municipality of Gothenburg has talked about the imam who was there preaching, and hate preachers, one after the other. Much has changed since 1945. If we now find that there is cheating the worst, we cannot simply say that we should continue with self-control. You can do that if you see that it is reasonable, but here it is a question of bullshit. As I said in my previous speech with regard to the religions, it cannot be the same people who control the same as those who pay out the contributions. There must be a change here. Otherwise, the risk is obvious that a great deal will continue in exactly the same direction. The Folkbildningsrådet does not know Ibn Rushd's local partners. It was also what was revealed in the review that was done by Erik Amnå and that had the title When trust was tested. That is exactly what has happened, and it must have a consequence if confidence has been put to the test and it turns out that it does not work. The connection with the Muslim Brotherhood is confirmed by the investigation, although some details are lacking. But Magnus Ranstorp and others have shown, unfortunately with all the necessary clarity, that there are clear links to the Muslim Brotherhood. In the near future, the heads of government in both France and Austria have more or less taken up the barricades to fight against Islamist separatism, which they call a poison in society. Is the Swedish Government in the same line? Are we drawing the necessary conclusions that we should stop funding this with subsidies, or is it a naïve approach that continues to apply and that makes it possible to feed more or less the Islamists with subsidies? These questions go hand in hand with the other questions I asked, which need to be answered.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-429	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that anti-Semitism has no place in Folkbildningssverige. The kind of remarks that Mikael Oscarsson just quoted in the speaker's chair do not belong either in public education or in a legal society. To the extent that such opinions are criminal, I assume that they will be reported to the police. To the extent that they are present in the context of adult education activities, I would like to say quite clearly that this type of activity should not receive public education money. They will go to bioculture, choral singing and novel reading, not to the type of activity that it was just referred to. I would also like to point out the report raised by Mikael Oscarsson, when trust is being tested. It is a long and interesting report written by Professor Erik Amnå, where Erik Amnå goes with great care through Folkbildningsrådet's collaboration with one of the organisations, namely Ibn Rushd. I'm not going to review the report, but I can certainly recommend it for reading. It asks the most difficult questions, namely how a peoples' education movement, student associations together, should act in a situation where one wants to secure democracy and at the same time reach out to more groups. That is the mission of the education of the people, and that is what the education of the people should carry out. However, it should be done with respect for democracy and without damaging democracy, and not a penny going to activities that do not support democracy. As Mikael Oscarsson knows, as a minister, I am forbidden to comment on how the Folkbildningsrådet – or if it had been an authority – should apply the legislation when it comes to assessing which organisations are eligible for state funding. I am forbidden to speak about this under the government form. I can't help but think it's a little interesting that Mikael Oscarsson's argumentation is based so much on the assertion that there is no audit or control. Let me remind you then that the Folkbildningsrådet, at its Board meeting in September, took decisions that will tighten the state grant condition and that the Public Education Council's office will be strengthened with a particular focus on developing control and follow-up. I would also like to remind you that the Folkbildningsrådet will then check is not itself, but the Council will check and ensure that the study associations have sufficient control and activity. It is a bit ironic that so much of Mikael Oscarsson's argumentation about the lack of audit is based on two reports from the Swedish National Audit Office, which, on behalf of the government, reviews this. I can also point out that the government has had Statskontoret connected to the somewhat broader issue of the activities of public education and, not least, that the government has wanted to highlight that this is an important issue. We recently indicated that we are not only reviewing the democracy condition, as Mikael Oscarsson is well aware, but also that we have ensured that the Folkbildningsrådet will conduct an in-depth review and reporting to the government on how to ensure that the contributions go right.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-438	Madam President, I would like The basis for my interpellation was the revelation that came this autumn about the extensive cheating on Järvafältet in Stockholm. They had to deduct 291,000 study hours, and that was one cheating after another. I did not get an answer to my question: If the Government is told about a massive cheating in Stockholm and internal reports from Malmö and Gothenburg are coming that it is as extensive there, is the Government not interested in finding out how things are really going around the country? Shouldn't the lack of control of partners worry? That is a crux of this. Ibn Rushd himself says that they do not know the local partners. How can one claim that democracy is strengthened when, according to Ibn Rushd's annual report, the Folkbildningsrådet controls only 5% of the activity? Ibn Rushd controls only 20% of what the local partners do, leaving 80% behind. There is an obvious risk of cheating here. In addition, as the National Audit Office pointed out, there is a lack of independent control and a search for sticks. It is in itself a driving force. As Magnus Ranstorp and others have pointed out, this will ultimately become a cash machine that enables the fertilization of extremism and Islamism. We must put an end to that.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-443	Madam President, I would like At the risk of getting tangled, I would like to remind you once again that, in view of the fraud that has been discovered, the Folkbildningsrådet has tightened up control and ensured that better accounting can be enforced. I can assure everyone who listens to this debate that I hate cheating and hate cheaters. I particularly hate cheaters who cheat with one of the most valuable things we have, namely our education and all the activities that should take place in the Swedish study circles. I'm mad at those who cheat. I also demand that the Folkbildningsrådet keep a good eye on its activities. But the real anger I am pointing at those who cheat.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-446	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether I intend to work for trade agreements to be used as a political instrument and to demand Brazil to comply with its climate commitments and whether, otherwise, I intend to say no to the Mercosur Agreement. Furthermore, Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether I intend to work towards using trade agreements to drive change in climate and human rights, in particular workers' rights, women's rights and indigenous rights. Lorena Delgado Varas has also asked me whether I intend to continue to advocate signing trade agreements with countries that do not comply with the Paris Agreement. A little more than a year ago, Lorena Delgado Varas asked the same questions, and I explained the answers in an interpellation. The questions raised then remain relevant. The challenges remain and there is an important discussion within the EU on the agreement and sustainability. This underlines the government's position. We continue to drive free, fair and sustainable trade. We are still concerned about developments in Brazil. In June 2019, an agreement in principle was reached between the EU and Mercosur, the largest trading bloc in South America, on the trade component of an Association Agreement. The agreement will benefit the economic development, growth and employment of both regions. The agreement is also of great strategic importance as it brings the countries of the EU and Mercosur closer together. The agreement represents a clear commitment by the EU and Mercosur to a rule-based international trade that will give companies from both regions greater business opportunities in their respective markets. The importance of trade in the implementation of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement is becoming increasingly prominent. The EU must be a leader here. In this context, EU trade policy can be an important tool for promoting sustainable development in the world. There is a balance between, on the one hand, putting pressure and, on the other hand, creating contact surfaces to be able to influence in the right direction. Trade agreements are such a contact area. Sweden will promote more deep and broad free trade agreements between the EU and third parties and that they take into account the environment and sustainability, including the Paris Agreement. One of the EU's demands to proceed with the Mercosur Agreement was for all parties to commit themselves to respect and effectively implement the Paris Agreement. Brazil has ratified the Paris Agreement and has thereby undertaken to reduce its climate emissions, prevent illegal logging and reforest the Amazon. The European Commission has announced that it will now hold a dialogue with the Mercosur countries on further commitments on sustainability issues in order to improve the conditions for ratification. The willingness to reach an agreement with the EU was also partly the reason why Brazil chose not to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. In this way, the EU's trade policy has already had an effect. At the same time, it is clear that the situation of the Amazon is becoming increasingly serious. We have previously expressed our concern about the forest fellings in the Amazon. I repeat my previous message in this House: these developments may have an impact on the ratification of the agreement. The government hopes that Brazil will act with the strength and seriousness required by the situation. In a letter to the European Commission, I have expressed the full support of Sweden to take further steps towards the effective implementation of the sustainability chapter. For Sweden, it is important that the EU has an action plan for how to fully influence in accordance with the agreement. The Mercosur Agreement and its dialogue mechanisms provide a platform for monitoring these commitments. Through increased contact areas, we will also give you the opportunity to engage in dialogue in order to try to influence the parties' climate and environmental policies in general. With a trade agreement in place, we can also facilitate the export of Swedish environmentally friendly solutions that help to combat climate change. Sweden has been a driving force in the EU's trade agreements to include the protection of workers' rights. In addition to wordings on climate and environmental protection, the sustainability chapter also includes provisions on labour law and requirements for the implementation of ILO core conventions. In other words, demands are made that the parties comply with their commitments within the framework of the ILO. As far as women's rights are concerned, the Government is actively committed to trade policy contributing to strengthening women's conditions and contributing to gender equality. The government has a feminist trade policy in which trade agreements play an important role. The agreement with Mercosur also provides for cooperation through political dialogue to promote respect for human rights, including the enjoyment of human rights by indigenous peoples. To oppose the MERCOSUR agreement means allowing trade between the EU and MERCOSUR to proceed on the basis of existing regulations, without new binding rules on the environment and climate and with limited scope to influence developments in a direction that we wish to see. Sweden supports the European Commission's initiative to improve the conditions for ratification and continues to closely monitor developments in Brazil. As a basis, the government's initial value is that trade agreements allow us to influence for the better.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-467	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Swedish Government uses the contact areas to push sustainability issues forward. Having said that, however, I think we need to clarify certain things in this debate. Minister for Trade Hallberg believes that the agreement will benefit the development of both regions. The question is what development we are talking about. The MERCOSUR agreement is highly export-oriented. Here the differences between North and South come in and why trade agreements benefit the EU in economic terms and not at all the Mercosur countries as much. The EU is much more protected. We have stronger animal welfare and stronger labour law than the Mercosur countries. There is a big difference in terms of wages, working conditions, animal husbandry and environmental requirements. Therefore, trade takes place unfairly and without regard to the consequences. What does it really mean to encourage an increase in, for example, meat production or soya? We know that industrial large-scale agriculture accounts for a large part of greenhouse gas emissions. The 50% increase in meat imports into the EU and the increase in soya, for example, without there being any changes in agriculture to a more sustainable one, will not have the effect described so nicely in the negotiations. So how will the Mercosur region develop? We know that the Amazon is burned down and destroyed to make way for the agro-industry. This affects the forests of Paraguay, Brazil and Argentina. To say that the agreement, as it stands today, is a tool for sustainable development is a chimera, an illusion. It will be a free trade agreement that encourages deforestation and forest fires. Just such a thing as the fact that greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation are not included in the total emissions of products gives a free lease to continue as usual.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-471	Madam President, I would like I and Lorena Delgado Varas really agree in our concern about the destruction of the rainforest, for example. There are many other areas where Mercosur countries – gender equality, the protection of human rights and so on – are concerned too. But on the climate issue in particular, first of all, it can be said that Brazil, in particular, has a unique natural resource in the Amazon rain forest and also a deep responsibility to protect it. The central question is how the EU can encourage, support and put pressure on Brazil to enforce the legislation it has in that country and to ensure that illegal deforestation is suppressed. Is the answer to leave the MERCOSUR agreement as of today and instead allow Brazil to sell to other countries that do not have the same environmental requirements as the EU? Or is the answer to involving the Brazilian government, the private sector and civil society in a longer-term trade relationship, with sustainability as an absolutely essential core? The government's view and my view as Minister for Trade is that without the Mercosur agreement, politics and trade would probably continue as it does today, with the difference that we cannot participate in influencing them. The contact areas provided by a free trade agreement would then be completely lacking, and this applies above all to the sustainability chapters. With the Mercosur Agreement in place, there will be institutionalised cooperation between the parties. It is necessary to sit down and agree on the joint projects that should be carried out with regard to the sustainability provisions of the agreement. And if conflicts arise between the parties, for example because someone does not comply with their commitments under the sustainability rules, expert panels shall be convened. The issue needs to be examined and an action plan presented, and this is to be monitored by a committee under the agreement. The agreement has a more ambitious sustainability chapter than previous free trade agreements that we have signed. It regulates the conditions for civil society, which plays a much greater role than before. It is and remains the government's initial value that this gives us the opportunity to influence for the better and set clear sustainability requirements. I would like to point out that, in the case of illegally harvested forests, there is actually a ban on the sale of such forests within the EU. The illegal deforestation in Brazil in recent years has therefore hardly been affected by trade with the EU, but rather has to do with ineffective enforcement of existing environmental protection laws and rules for the use of land in Brazil in particular. I would also like to point out that Sweden is very committed to development cooperation. Through various political initiatives to protect and preserve the world's rainforests and other unique forest areas, we work in development cooperation on a broad front with environmental and climate issues, including through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' major contribution to the Green Climate Fund, the Global Environmental Fund and so on. Having said that, I would like to emphasise that we see that developments on the ground continue to go in the wrong direction. The situation of the Amazon is becoming more and more serious. The Brazilian government has now proposed a new law on land ownership that risks speeding up the devastation, despite the fact that new large-scale fires are ravaging the rainforest ever since September. We see the seriousness of this, and if Brazil does not take its commitments seriously, this will have an impact on the ratification of the agreement.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-479	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I would like to continue on the subject of how the Mercosur Agreement puts development at a disadvantage. To continue trading by encouraging long transport routes solely for the sake of profit is yet another proof that trade agreements are not up to date. How long should we continue to encourage imports of goods that can be produced close but that the EU wants to import because of it is cheaper? If we consider three laps why meat would be cheaper to import from Mercosur, we will find the answer in over-exploitation, deforestation, poor wages and poor working conditions. What developments will the MERCOSUR Agreement benefit? It points out the Paris Agreement but introduces elements that imply a development in the other direction. It kind of doesn't make sense. They want the Mercosur countries to comply with the Paris Agreement, but they are opening up to production that is known to produce a completely different result. The truth is that the large differences between the EU and the Mercosur countries in terms of conditions in the agro-industry will lead to further over-exploitation of the agro-industry in the Mercosur countries, not to an improvement in conditions, because it is still the economic interests that are above all else.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-484	Madam President, I would like I return to the government's view that EU trade policy should be a tool for influencing other countries and contributing to sustainable development in the world and to combating climate change. Sometimes it may even be that in some cases trade is the only tool for influencing sustainability issues in a broad context. We must use the agreements to ensure, for example, that our trading partners respect and implement the Paris Agreement but also in a broader context. I fully agree with Lorena Delgado Varas that we should see this in a broader context and see the opportunity that we believe this would give us. It should be remembered that we know that our entire consumption of meat generally gives a great impression on the climate. The EU's meat imports from Brazil are a good example of how the Mercosur Agreement can give us opportunities for influence that we would not otherwise have had. If we take the issue of EU imports of precisely Brazil's meat, which would be affected by the Mercosur Agreement, as an example, it represents only 1.4% of Brazil's total meat production. Thus, a trade embargo on Brazilian beef would hardly have a major impact on the production of meat in Brazil. Brazil would probably only sell more to other countries that have less ambitious environmental policies than the EU and whose trade agreements do not have the same climate requirements as those of the EU. Brazil really wants the Mercosur Agreement and certainly wants to have access to our market. But this also gives us the opportunity to make demands and influence Brazilian production and affect the sustainability of Brazilian products, manufacturing, working conditions and so on in a broad context. All food products imported must also continue to meet the EU's strict food safety and management requirements. This agreement does not alter this, on the contrary. In addition, the agreement means that the EU and Mercosur will work together. We must work together to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal production and to improve animal welfare. Sweden will be the driving force for this to also be effective cooperation in this particular respect. I would like to comment once again on Lorena Delgado's question as to whether trade is really a tool for influencing in the right direction. In the environmental field, the focus is on issues such as not only forestry and meat production, but also sustainable fishing, forestry, biodiversity and more. This is an agreement that encourages and calls for the implementation of international environmental agreements and for us to have an important civil society forum. That is part of what we can call the institutional framework of the Mercosur Agreement. It also enables civil society organisations to participate in and engage in dialogue with the government. The implementation of a free trade agreement thus opens doors to concrete activities on sustainability issues. I would also like to point out that the presence of Swedish and European companies in Brazil enables us to work with not only sustainability issues for the environment but also labour law issues and sustainable enterprise in general. The European Commission has now announced that it is taking this situation very seriously. A comprehensive dialogue with the Mercosur countries on further commitments on sustainability issues is being conducted and to be conducted. We very much welcome it, and indeed we have greater expectations that this dialogue will lead to a result.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-492	Madam President, I would like If trade agreements are the tools, more demands must be made. Moreover, it should not be self-evident that trade will be conducted to that extent if the environment and human rights are not respected. Our presence does not provide total certainty that things will change. We saw Brazil having a quiet coup, you might say. Nothing happened from the Swedish side. We saw Bolivia, we saw Chile and so on. Finally, I would like to touch on the human rights issue, the rights of workers and the rights of indigenous peoples. By devastation, small farmers and indigenous peoples are deprived of their right to land. Last month, the Brazilian government called in the military to attack MST's legal settlements in the southern part of Bahia. Here there are about 20 communities that have been destroyed to the ground. Schools and organic production are completely destroyed. Here they criminalize social leaders and break down the organization of indigenous peoples and small farmers for a more dignified life. There is no place for organic small-scale production under the shadow of the Mercosur Agreement. The free trade agreements are designed to promote this macro, the large-scale crops, with all that that entails. It also affects small farmers both in Mercosur and in the EU. This will lead to an increase and acceptance of human rights violations against indigenous peoples, the environment and trade union activists, as countries are rewarded with the agreement, despite repeated violations of human rights and the lack of democracy, for example, in Brazil. This is something that at least the Left Party believes needs to be changed.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-498	Madam President, I would like I very much agree with Lorena Delgado Vara's view of how incredibly important it is that we also highlight the issue of human rights and take the opportunity we can have when we have a dialogue, not only when the agreement is signed but also before the agreement is signed. It's not just about dialogue. In fact, it is also a question of pressure, because it is of great interest for the Mercosur countries to sign this agreement with the EU. We now have an opportunity to influence. We've already done it. We certainly believe that it is a factor in Brazil's choosing not to leave the Paris Agreement, in that it has seen the prospect of stepping into a Mercosur agreement with the European Union. So it has already had an effect. But we do not see any effect until this has an effect in reality in the Mercosur countries too. With regard to the wording of the agreement on human rights in particular, there are wordings on political dialogue. We will work together to promote respect for human rights. It also includes indigenous peoples' enjoyment of human rights. The EU adopted Council conclusions on indigenous peoples in May 2017. This confirms, among other things, the EU's support for the UN Declaration on Indigenous Rights. This is incredibly central also in dialogue with the Mercosur countries. Furthermore, the EU also stated that it should have a particular priority in combating discrimination against indigenous peoples, such as threats and violence against indigenous peoples. The EU's line, and Sweden is indeed a driving force in terms of indigenous rights, is that this must be reflected in the dialogue on human rights in relation to Mercosur. It is central to the negotiations and also to the dialogue before. As I have just mentioned, a new dialogue is taking place between the EU and Mercosur precisely to bring in these incredibly central human rights issues, but also environmental and climate issues, before ratification takes place. In general, it can be said that Sweden is one of the countries that is driving this particular issue.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-503	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me what the government intends to do to address the problems for consumers regarding cancellations in the footsteps of the coronapandemin, whether the government intends to work to adapt the package travel directive and to ensure that the travel guarantee law is reformed so that they are adapted to situations such as the pandemic we are experiencing, what the government's work looks like, according to the representatives of the government parties, is working with and when the government will present measures to resolve the situation of cancellations. The outbreak of the disease covid-19 is primarily a danger to life and health but also poses many problems for consumers and businesses, not least in relation to travel services. Consumer protection in travel is basically at a high level and to a large extent harmonised within the EU. However, as a result of the ongoing pandemic, many consumers have to wait a long time for repayments to which they are entitled. Some consumers have also been affected by the bankruptcy of the travel company. In some cases, travellers who do not receive money for package travel or linked travel arrangements may receive compensation from the industry-funded travel guarantee scheme administered by Kammarkollegiet. This applies in cases where the journey has not taken place as a result of the organiser's insolvency. If the traveller himself has cancelled, or if the trip has been cancelled for some other reason – for example the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' advice – and the organiser subsequently goes bankrupt, no compensation is paid from the travel guarantee system. The reason for the restriction is that we in Sweden have chosen to implement the package travel directive's rules on insolvency protection without going beyond the requirements of the directive. During this time, many consumers have been able to obtain information and guidance from the Consumer Information Service of the Swedish Consumer Agency, and many have also turned to the General Complaints Board to have their dispute with the travel company reviewed. With regard to the mandate to Kammarkollegiet, it should be known that it referred to whether, and under what conditions, a voucher offered instead of a refund in cash is covered by the travel guarantee of the travel undertaking. It is an issue where it has been unclear how the legislation is to be interpreted and how the applicable travel guarantee schemes are. According to Kammarkollegiet's assessment, valuables are not covered by the travel guarantee. The voucher must be used to book a new trip in order for the journey to be covered by a travel guarantee. Kammarkollegiet has provided information on this on its website. The mission did not therefore address the question of the extent to which travellers have the right to receive their money back or have to accept vouchers or similar vouchers. Nor has there been any reason to investigate the legal situation on this issue. The need for possible changes to Swedish legislation and the underlying EU directive must be carefully analysed on various aspects. This is particularly true of how the balance between the interests of consumers and traders in harmonised consumer protection in the EU can be ensured in the long term. Discussions are taking place within the EU and the European Commission has initiated various consultations. Among other things, the Commission has found that the EU common regulatory framework is applied differently in different Member States during the current pandemic. The design of the travel guarantee scheme also needs to be considered in this context. In this respect, it should be taken into account, inter alia, that extending the system would increase the costs for tour operators, as the travel guarantee is financed by them themselves, for example, by bank guarantees. In conclusion, many issues need to be analysed in the light of developments. Such analysis work is ongoing in the Government Office. The government is following developments very closely and is also actively involved in the consultations taking place at EU level. Further measures cannot be excluded, but I cannot now anticipate the ongoing analyses. Finally, I will continue to work towards a high level of consumer protection in Sweden and in Europe.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-511	Madam President, I would like Today 241 days have passed since the Ministry for Foreign Affairs advised against unnecessary travel to all countries and the concerns of the travel industry took off. Several million travellers are affected, and Swedish consumers do not get back the money they are entitled to because the travel companies cannot pay back. Many travel companies, in turn, are waiting for reimbursement from airlines and hotels. The law says that the consumer has the right to receive the money back within 7 – 14 days if you have booked a flight or a package tour. That's the law. But the government and its support parties have consistently ignored helping travel companies to live up to the law and have thus failed both companies and Swedish travel consumers. We can also note that consumers affected by cancellations due to the pandemic and the advice of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs – i.e. the cancellations we are talking about here today – will not be able to receive compensation from the travel guarantee. The Government mentioned that guarantee today, and she has mentioned it on several occasions in the past. However, as the Government said, we must state that this guarantee does not apply to consumers who have had their journey cancelled because of the pandemic. Nor does it help to turn to the General Complaints Board. They too have already stated that the law applies and that consumers are entitled to reimbursement; there is no dispute about it. Increased pressure on the General Complaints Board leads to higher costs without giving companies greater opportunities to comply with the law, so that is no solution to the problem. And the situation is far from over. I would like to quote a paragraph from the Fplus newspaper, which writes as follows: a moment when Europe is now closing down and new restrictions are introduced, the future is black for the travel industry. 中 Didrik von Seth, Chairman of the Swedish Travel Agency and Organizers' Association, says that It's been 241 days, and the situation is night black. What has the government done to help businesses and consumers with their cancellations? Nothing. There is ongoing analysis work at the Government Office, says the Government. Is this analysis therefore what the representatives of the government parties refer to when they repeatedly vote down proposals in committee that could have helped consumers and businesses? It's kind of like looking at a boat full of passengers slowly sinking and noting that the action you're going to take is to analyse for eight months how to prevent boats from sinking in the future. It is a disastrous failure on the part of the government not to be able to present within eight months any targeted measures to help the travel industry and to resolve the situation, but instead to refer to an analysis work. After all, we must save these companies and give consumers what they are legally entitled to now. Doesn't the government understand that the situation is urgent?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-519	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that this pandemic is huge, and none of us really know today what the end of it is or how it affects the population, individuals and businesses. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has been very clear about all the support we have given. This year, aid amounts to over 200 billion, which is historically high. The support is both about health care and care and about companies. This week we presented additional aid for short-term lay-off, deferral of tax payments, conversion aid and turnover support for individual traders. It is important to say that much of this is general. Then there are absolutely specific industries that you need to look at, which the government has also done and works with. As far as the travel industry is concerned, I would like to say that the organisers themselves today estimate that 85 to 90% of consumers will get their money back. However, consumers have been waiting for this for a very long time. This is, of course, a problem, as the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Public Complaints Board point out. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the system we have in Sweden with the Travel Guarantee Act was something that both the Government and the Riksdag unanimously supported in order to find a balance between the interests of consumers and the interests of travel companies. This system, which also deals with individual guarantees, is different from that in many of the Nordic countries. I have said before and can continue to emphasise that when it comes to such a crisis as the pandemic, we need to see whether systems need to be changed. In particular, with regard to this issue, we are working on possible solutions in this area. As the Minister for Finance put it yesterday, we will describe further what might need to be considered as soon as possible. We are working on this as a matter of urgency.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-525	Madam President, I would like Let us talk a little about what the government has done in general to help all our important companies through the crisis and why general support does not help an industry that has lost up to 100% of its business while requiring itself to repay money already earned. The government has introduced conversion aid. It is a measure that certainly helped some companies but does not save the travel industry. It is a complex aid which is surrounded by many rules and which also involves costs for businesses. So if you manage to get the support, it will cover some of the losses you have because no one is booking new trips now. However, it does not help businesses to pay back money to consumers for already booked travel. The government has also given companies the opportunity to borrow. However, these loans require a personal guarantee. This puts the entrepreneur at risk of personal bankruptcy, which of course makes it incredibly difficult for entrepreneurs to dare to invest in this when the government has also been so unclear. This measure does not therefore help businesses to pay back money to consumers for already booked journeys. The third thing that the government has introduced is short-term leave. Probably this has been the best and most accurate action. Short-term lay-offs are vital to the travel industry, but it is not enough when companies also have an obligation to refund already booked trips without getting their own money back. Several other sectors have received direct payments even though they did not have the same legal requirement to repay consumers. By mid-October, 50 per cent were laid off in the travel agency industry, and 35 - 40 per cent of travel agents have either gone bankrupt or are in reconstruction. At least 85 to 90 per cent of the remaining employees are still laid off. I am pleased that the government announced yesterday that it is now extending short-term lay-offs for another six months. It's a long-awaited message in the travel business. However, the aid helps to cover parts of the income loss that is now occurring and to prevent more people from becoming unemployed. It does not help businesses to repay consumers for their already booked travel. What would help? SRF has proposed that the government set up a fund of SEK 6 billion that allows travellers who are entitled to repayment to receive money from the fund. The fund would be self-financed in the travel industry by passengers over the next 20 years paying a fee of SEK 5 for a flight and SEK 25 for a package trip. The fund would therefore not cost the state or taxpayers anything. The Swedish Democrats already proposed measures in April to help travel consumers. By September at the latest, we put forward further proposals to set up this fund. Several other countries have this solution, and Sweden risks losing business abroad if it does not act.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-534	Madam President, I would like This is a serious situation in many sectors. As far as the travel industry, which we are talking about now, is concerned, many travellers are affected. The travel companies have said that they will pay back. Some have more difficulty than others in doing so, but you do. Changing to a whole new system does not just mean pummeling money and saying: Now we have solved this. It is about finding a balance between industry, industry, and consumer protection. I am primarily Minister of Consumer Affairs. Individual sectors need to consider which general actions can help and what needs to be tailored. The government must constantly consider what further we need to do. And it is important that the proposals are truly substantiated, that we reason with the industry and that we see that it is sustainable over time. It's important that things go right. Speaking of us being part of the European Union, we must also, together with other countries – it is an international market – ensure that we can handle it well. It is logical and wise to ensure that the proposals put forward are sustainable over time. The Parliament took decisions in 2018, two years ago, and agreed on what it would look like. To completely change it is to do something urgent that may then not last. In order to support the industry, it is important to have good and concrete proposals that both support consumers and bring about changes for the travel industry. That's where we are now.
i-ebaa496a384116ee-540	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In 2019 the travel industry had sales of more than SEK 60 billion and over 7,000 employees. Now the industry has had what is termed a trade ban for eight months. Hundreds of thousands of consumers are waiting to get their money back. The last thing I heard today was that they treat trips cancelled in April. So you're pretty far behind. Many turn to the General Complaints Board, whose cases have increased by 140 per cent in terms of travel. Some take it as far as the bailiff. Of course it may help the individual consumer. Of course, this is not a solution to the problem. We have proposed a fund. It is a solution that could quickly be in place and could help travel companies to get rid of the black cloud they currently have hanging over them. Consumers could feel confident that they will get their money back and also have the courage to book future trips. As things stand, very few consumers dare to book new trips, as they do not want to end up in the same position again. Even the travel companies hesitate to say yes to large bookings because the situation is uncertain and they do not want to risk having even more refund costs. It's a locked location, but the government has the key. My question to Minister Micko is therefore: Will the government use the key to unlock the situation and save travel companies and consumers, or will it continue to watch passively as the ship sinks?
i-ebaa496a384116ee-545	Madam President, I would like The government and its cooperation parties, the whole of society, I believe, are experiencing what is happening in our country with the pandemic and the crisis that we are going through, affecting everyone in different ways. It will affect industries, and we do not know how many will survive. We have to do what we can to help save jobs and Swedish companies. We've got a lot of steam that can make a difference. It is important that the support that has now been given produces results. At the same time, we will constantly consider what more we can do. In this area, work is under way to consider what further needs to be done to meet consumers' interests. I know the travel companies are doing what they can to pay back, but it's a tough situation. At the same time, we will ensure that we have a travel industry that will continue to operate. That's what we're working on.
