i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-7	Madam President, I would like The parliamentary situation poses a number of challenges for the division of responsibilities between the parliament and the government: On the one hand, regarding the parliament's task of legislating, deciding on taxes to the state and determining how the state's funds are to be used, in accordance with the government's form of Chapter 1. 4 §. On the other hand, regarding the government's task of ruling the kingdom, permanently accountable to the Riksdag, in accordance with the government's form of Chapter 1. 6 §. And finally, our joint responsibility to protect and take care of our country Sweden with all that it means. This places demands on the association and relationship between the parliament and the government in order to ensure respect for the rules of the government and effective governance. And that is precisely what this issue is largely about. In the Government's letter 75, the Government describes the measures it has taken in response to the announcements adopted by the Riksdag. In our report, the KU2, we consider how the Riksdag views the government's handling of our announcements. In short, this document is about whether or not Parliament is satisfied with what the government has done to comply with our decisions in this House. Madam President, I would like This year, too, we in the Constitutional Committee want to reiterate what we have stated in the past, namely that the Government's report for several years has improved and gives a formal accurate picture of Parliament's letters to the Government. Of course, we are in favour of this development. As regards the handling of parliamentary letters in the field of the KU, 13 announcements are presented as closed. One of them, the announcement of trials involving the co-distribution of newspapers and mail, has been discussed in greater detail by the committee. The Government reported the announcement as finalised in the budget proposal for 2020. It highlighted why there is no possibility to use the role of owner in Postnord as requested. The Government has the task of actively managing the state's ownership in companies so that the long-term development of value is the best possible and, where appropriate, that the specifically decided social tasks are performed well. The Government considers it of the utmost importance that companies with state ownership are actively and professionally managed with value creation as an overall goal. This means that the companies must act long-term, efficient and profitable and be given the ability to develop. Postnord is jointly owned by the Swedish and Danish States. Postnord has none of the Riksdag specifically decided on community assignments. However, the Articles of Association of Postnord state that the object of the company's operations shall be to provide nationwide postal services in Sweden and Denmark directly or through subsidiaries.
i-Bor6XvAJRMd2vo7MajFTjr	Madam President, I would like Companies with State ownership are entities governed by private law and are subject to the same laws and rules as private limited liability companies. It is thus the Board of Directors and the management of Postnord that, within the framework of the company's mandate and applicable laws, rules and permit conditions, is responsible for and manages the company's operational activities, including any decisions regarding collaborations and trials. The committee believes that the announcement can be considered to have been finalised, even if, in the opinion of the committee, it cannot be regarded as being satisfied because new co-distribution experiments have not been initiated in the manner set out in the notice. This would therefore not have been possible since it is the Board of Directors and the management of Postnord that, within the framework of the company's mandate and applicable laws, rules and permit conditions, is responsible for and manages the company's operational operations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Opinions from other committees highlight a number of views on the government's handling of Parliament's letters. Several of the committees recognise the importance of the government avoiding unnecessary time spent processing announcements. In this context, the KU wishes to stress the importance of the Government dealing with Parliament's letters promptly and making efforts to avoid unnecessary time spent on handling Parliament's announcements. However, the reasonableness of the time required should be assessed taking into account the content of the notice and the preparation measures to be taken. Madam President, I would like Let me also take this opportunity to say that we in the KU note that in some cases the other committees have made a different assessment from the government of whether or not an announcement has been finalised. The KU does not make its own assessment of the cases in question, but refers to the points made by the respective committees in their opinions. I would like to support the proposal in KU's report 2 on the handling of Parliament's letters.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-18	Madam President, I would like Like the previous speaker, this debate concerns what is commonly referred to as letter 75. It is the Government's annual report to the Riksdag on how letters from the Riksdag have been dealt with. These letters may relate to budget decisions, and these types of letters are usually dealt with by the Government during the current parliamentary year. What is given a little more attention in our report and in this debate are, above all, announcements, which may, of course, take a little longer for the government to implement. Whether or not letters are completed and received and what remains is at the heart of the report. It is the report for 2018 – 2019 that we are now discussing. Usually this treatment and debate takes place in the spring, why it may be a bit late to do so in the autumn and not to take in this year's budget proposal when we assess whether something is finished or not. The reason for this is the pandemic that broke out in the spring and made other matters a priority. That is why we have the debate now and are going to put the matter on the table today. As you know, an announcement is a decision on an order from the Riksdag to the Government, for example that the Government will investigate something and come back with a bill. This is the result of the division of functions between parliament and government and also the result of the principles of parliamentarism. The division of functions means that for a couple of hundred years there has been a division of labour between the parliament and the government based on the fact that it is ultimately the government that has the resources to investigate legislative proposals and that governs the investigation system while it is the parliament's task to examine legislative proposals and decide on them and the budget. Parliamentarianism in Sweden is designed so that the government must be tolerated by the Riksdag in order to remain in office. Against this background, it will of course be important for the Riksdag to show the Government what political proposals there is support for in the Riksdag. The legal status of the announcements is regulated neither by constitution nor by parliament, but they are subject to legal standards that are firm and constitutional practice, not least developed by the Constitutional Committee for a long time. I will say something about this practice's main ingredients. The starting point is that the Government should satisfy the Riksdag's announcements. Preparation measures following a notice shall be initiated as soon as possible. The Government does not have to comply with an announcement and will then notify the Riksdag of this and why. The Riksdag will then have the opportunity to consider how to proceed instead – if you want to present a legislative proposal yourself despite limited investigative resources or ultimately, if you no longer tolerate the government, arouse various distrusts. Only in exceptional circumstances should it take more than two three years to complete a notice. Just as the previous speaker did, how long is reasonable depends on the complexity of the matter in substance. It should be added that it is important for the government to take preparatory measures in the complex cases to show that the issue is being pushed forward. A case may be closed but not satisfied. This may have several reasons. When something has been investigated, it can be concluded that this should not be done. There may be consensus on it; it does not just need to be the government that believes it. It can also be inappropriate in different ways. You can also disagree about what the Riksdag has actually ordered. Speaking of Postnord, one can also disagree on how to as owner can and should run a state-owned company. It is not only about what is legally possible but also about what is appropriate. In this case, we have come to the conclusion that it should be deemed to have been concluded by now. The Constitutional Committee has previously asked the government to return, so this has been taken for a while. In such cases, you will have to come back to the substance of how you can otherwise achieve the purpose of that announcement. Let me also say that all the committees in this year's opinions point out the importance of the government avoiding unnecessary time in dealing with announcements. Our report states that out of a total of 566 parliamentary letters, 276 are not finished. From 2014 onwards it's 243. If we remove from these the letters that are two three years old and look further back in time, there are still 120 left. So there are many announcements and assignments that are older and not finished. It can be noted in Table 2 of the report that 33 announcements from earlier than 2014 have not been finalised. The oldest is from 1999. This means that this year 49% of the letters are not finished. This is to be compared with the average for the whole period from the 1990s to today being 36%. It is also stated in the report that it takes longer for the government to close cases, regardless of whether you measure median or Middle Ages. In so doing, I request that the Parliament add the matter to the file.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-33	Madam President, I would like Since the early 1960s, the Government has in a letter submitted a report to the Riksdag on the measures taken in response to various decisions taken by the Riksdag. In this context, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs usually asks the other committees to give their opinion on the content. Since the 1990s, the Riksdag Board has also given an account of the letters they have had to deal with. As the committee has no objection to the comments made by the parliamentary board, I shall essentially refer in this speech to the letters of the Government. A unanimous Constitutional Committee notes that the Government's report on the handling of Parliament's letters for several years has been improved and can thus be considered to give a correct picture of the treatment of the letters sent by the Riksdag to the Government. The committee now assumes that the government will continue to do this and will not compromise on the quality of future reports. In this context, it is worth recalling the constitutional practice that has emerged with regard to announcements. The starting point, of course, is that the government is responding to an announcement. However, an announcement is not legally binding. Therefore, if the Government does not agree with Parliament's opinion on a matter and therefore does not intend to satisfy Parliament's wishes, it should inform Parliament within the possible time limit set in the announcement. The reasons why the Government has not complied with the Notice should also be disclosed. In the event that the Government, but not the committee concerned and the Riksdag, believe that an announcement has been finalised, the Government shall return to the Riksdag with an account of further measures or announce that the Government maintains its view that the announcement has been finalised. If the government fails or fails to observe these measures, the parliament's ability to control and monitor the government's work is made more difficult, which ultimately leads to the detriment of democracy. Madam President, I would like During the course of this year's discussion, a number of horizontal comments have been highlighted which may be useful for a brief discussion. Several of the committees recognise the importance of the government avoiding unnecessary time spent processing announcements. In this context, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wishes to stress the importance of the Government dealing with Parliament's letters promptly and making efforts to avoid unnecessary time spent dealing with Parliament's announcements. The reasonableness of the time required should be assessed taking into account the content of the notice and the preparation measures to be taken. Furthermore, it is noted that in some cases the committees have made a different assessment from the government of whether or not an announcement has been finalised. The Constitutional Committee does not make its own assessment of the cases in question, but refers to the points made by the respective committees in their opinions. As mentioned above, where a committee has stated in an opinion that an announcement has not been finalised, the government shall return to the Riksdag with its accounting and assessment. The committee therefore proposes that the Parliament add the letter to the file.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-42	Madam President, I would like Then it is time to get to grips with the KU6 Advance payment case in some cases of public document disclosure. The right to access public documents is fundamental to democracy. It gives all people the opportunity to see how our authorities function and do their job. A request for a copy of a public document shall be dealt with promptly. We now have a report on the proposal for advance payments in certain cases. It is based, among other things, on a report by the KU of 2015 in which the KU presented a proposal for an announcement to the House, which fell into good soil and was voted through by the Riksdag. There, the KU expressed its opinion as follows: 16 § The Parliamentary Order proposes that the Riksdag make an announcement to the Government to investigate the question of possible measures to, while respecting the principle of public access to documents, meet the challenges that may arise in the event of very frequent and extensive petitions. ..................................................... It was a rather precise description of the fact that this applies in exceptional cases in the case of very frequent and extensive petitions. In the report, it is exemplified by the view that in some municipalities, for example, there has been such an enormous burden on some people who demand documents, sometimes people and sometimes groups, that it has in principle paralysed parts of the administration. The committee was very strict in its mission, one might say, but what we have now received is a proposal dealing with another problem. The possibility of charging a fee for documents has always existed, but a proposal has now been made to deal with the problem of non-payments by requiring them in advance. It is not quite the same thing, and there is a risk of other effects. They say it's going to happen exceptionally. It must not be linked to specific individuals, but it must not be general. How this is to be done is a bit difficult to say. It can be done if it is a comprehensive request. At the same time, it must be done after assessment by a person, but it must not be registered who submits a request. It is rather unclear, we see it as. We believe that the announcement and narrow wish that the Riksdag has made to the Government on these issues require that the matter be looked at again. Requesting payment in advance is something that must happen exceptionally, but there is a great risk that it will become more the rule than the exception. The problem with this is that it increases the risk of long handling and that it takes time to obtain requested documents. We would therefore like the government to come back with a proposal which corresponds more to the problem, that is to say, to mismanagement. It is well described in the announcement made by the KU. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. As the speaker before me explained, a few years ago the Parliament decided on an announcement to the government that concerns exactly what we are talking about today. It was in the report KU11 of the Parliamentary Session 2014/ 15. According to the announcement, the Government should have examined the question of possible measures to respond, while respecting the principle of public access, to the challenges that may arise in the case of very frequent and extensive requests for access to public documents. That is exactly what has now happened in this case, where we are trying to solve that problem.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-52	Madam President, I would like As has been said, the Government's proposal aims to address the problem of non-payment of fees for copies of public documents and at the same time clarify the legal situation regarding the possibility for authorities to require advance payments. The committee agrees with the government's assessment that there is a need to introduce an option for the authorities to require advance payment in individual cases for copies of public documents. The committee considers that the Government's proposal is balanced and should be implemented. Having said that, the committee would also like to emphasise that the principle of public access to public documents is of central importance for the formation of opinions, for the debate and for the scrutiny and constitutes a cornerstone of Swedish government. Therefore, the possibility for authorities to require payment in advance for copies of public documents may not be applied in such a way that the urgency requirement and the protection of anonymity resulting from the provisions of the Freedom of the Press Regulation are in danger of being undermined. It is therefore very important that the application of the new regulation is closely monitored. The committee also shares the government's assessment that the Riksdag's announcement has been finalised. Overall, the committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's legislative proposals. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Madam President, I would like In view of the Left Party's follow-up motion and what Mrs Sydow Mia mentioned earlier here in the speaker's chair, I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about this. Unlike the memorandum on which the bill is based, the government and also the Constitutional Committee believe that no specific reasons should be required for an authority to request payment in advance. This assessment is based on the fact that a requirement for specific reasons may be problematic, because it risks being able to identify some of those who use the principle of public access. Moreover, it could be difficult to maintain a predictable and uniform assessment of the question of whether there are specific reasons depending on who requests a copy of a public document. There is also a clear risk that this could ultimately conflict with the constitutionally protected anonymity protection contained in Chapter 2. Section 18 of the Freedom of the Press Act, which deals with the search ban. It may also risk leading to privacy-sensitive processing of personal data. A regulation without any requirement for specific reasons will thus give the authorities greater scope to decide for themselves on the detailed arrangements for levying charges, and, as I have said, it is important that we follow this application closely.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-61	Madam President, I would like This report on advance payments for the disclosure of public documents raises a great deal of fundamental discussion about our principle of public access. The possibility of obtaining public documents and being able to remain anonymous in this, as well as the possibility of accessing other information from authorities, must be weighed against the possibility that there will be such large volumes and so problematic for the authorities to provide this that it will affect other parts of our general activities and, by extension, also welfare. These are not easy decisions, and they are also done with great caution. We must exercise restraint when making changes in such an important part of our democracy. That is why we have moderated that the proposal which has come from the government and which the committee has supported is a step which is worth trying and which is in the right direction. That is why I support the proposal in the report. The objections raised by the Left Party that these are really two different problems I can have some understanding of. When one finds just the connection that one seems to have found here, that large parts of this problem can also be attributed to those who make very large orders for public documents to be collected but who then never come and collect them, I think that it is a great burden for authorities to produce public documents and make them available. Then there will be little sense in it, since they will never leave the authority. Addressing this problem also solves some other knots along the way, a step in the right direction that is hopefully worth trying. It is also the case that there will undoubtedly be a test of how this is applied continuously within the framework of the other systems that we have in place to ensure that things are done right and right. We have administrative courts and we have an ombudsman who may both examine and look at how the application of this new possibility will actually take place. Before you collect documents and before the authority, so to speak, make the great effort to produce documents and copy them, you will know about how much this will cost and that you may also have to pay this fee, so that there can be better communication between the public requesting public documents and the authority. I myself have been in a situation where I have had to produce public documents for disclosure, where the reaction of the public who have requested the public documents was that it probably did not really understand that it would cost so much and that there was then a doubt whether they really wanted these public documents. Madam President, I would like From this point of view too, there is a good point in this way to play with open cards on the part of the authority vis-à-vis the public requesting the documents. This means that the public – before faced with a fait accompli, the work is done and the document is to be released – will have the opportunity to take a position on whether you really want this work to be done and if you really want to have this document out. Of course, there are extreme cases. In the Swedish context, the extreme case is the fact that it would cost almost SEK 1 million to request the parts of the Palme investigation that are public. I'm sure there's someone else who's got a thing to do. But it's probably a lot of money for an ordinary person to pay. It can be a fun thought, many may think, to take part of this material– until you see what it actually costs. Then I think it is reasonable, even in such an extreme case, to allow it to illustrate this connection between the fact that it may be right and proper that in specific cases when the volume is large or when there are other reasonable grounds for believing that there may be grounds for making advance payments, it is also possible to do so. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-70	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. Report KU6 deals with the difficult balance between maintaining the self-evident and very important principle of public access and the need to overcome the phenomenon of widespread and frequently recurring requests for large quantities of public documents. It is a problem that creates unreasonable and extensive additional work and costs for the affected authorities. The proposed legislative amendment allows an authority to decide in an individual case that the person requesting a copy of a public document will pay the fee in whole or in part before the copy is released. However, this possibility shall not affect the principle of public access to public documents or the fundamental right to access public documents. The starting point is to make it more difficult to order unwieldy, where the purpose is not really to get access to public documents but to create an unnecessary administrative burden for a municipality or an authority, for example. The principle of public access is and remains central to Swedish government, as it is a prerequisite for free opinion formation, debate and scrutiny. Therefore, the possibility for authorities to require payment in advance for copies of public documents may not be used in such a way that the urgency requirement and the protection of anonymity resulting from the provisions of the Freedom of the Press Regulation are in danger of being undermined. Nor is it intended to be able to systematically request advance payment in all cases. In the Committee's view, it is important that the application of the new regulation is closely monitored. Although the committee is now almost unanimous, the Swedish Democrats also intend to follow developments closely and ensure that this possibility is not misused by the authorities.
i-LeRGL6Fa5mbjM2isBuPBok	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion. In recent weeks, reporting on an increase in the number of patients in covid ‐ 19 has made it clear that the spread of the Corona virus is again increasing sharply. As early as February 1st, the government classified covid-19 as a social disease, and since then the government has been working on a clear strategy. In the first instance, the spread of infection should be limited. As Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has said several times: Money cannot, will not and should not stand in the way of the important work of healthcare and care against covid-19. Therefore, the government gave early warning that we are responsible for all the extraordinary costs of healthcare and care. Today we are debating the eleventh of the additional amending budgets that have landed at Parliament's table this year. It is about the extension of the right to compensation for risk groups. In recent weeks, the spread of infection has increased rapidly. This makes it important that we continue to take joint responsibility for protecting those individuals who are most at risk of experiencing a particularly serious disease course. The decision we are making here today extends the right to compensation from 90 to 184 days so that compensation can be provided until 31 December this year. It is an important and necessary decision to make it easier for the most vulnerable in our society to stay at home. In addition, the Government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has announced that the aid will be extended after the end of the year until March. The political support for this in the Swedish Parliament is very clear, so I hope that everyone concerned will feel confident that it will be so. Madam President, I would like I know that there is great frustration among those concerned that decisions on extension have been delayed. I understand that frustration, and in the rear-view mirror it is always much easier to see what should have been done before. However, during this pandemic, the government has followed developments closely and taken action when necessary. During this year, many exceptional measures have been taken, and they have all had to be dealt with in parallel. In this work, the government also has to take responsibility for ensuring that taxpayers' money is spent efficiently and accurately and that the right action is put in place at the right time. After the summer, the spread of infection was significantly lower in society than it is now. Unfortunately, the spread of infection has been very rapid in recent weeks. That is why the remuneration of risk groups now needs to be extended. Madam President, I would like As I said, it is easy to be hindsight, so when you listen to the coming speakers in this debate, it may be good to have the following with you. Firstly, neither of the other parties writes anything about the extension of this remuneration to risk groups in their budget proposals for 2021. Secondly, it is much faster to think and demand than actually do. Normally, it may take years to develop these kinds of changes. Now it's gone a lot faster. Thirdly, of course, it is important to continue to monitor that this compensation, as well as other measures taken during the pandemic, is working as intended. The government continuously monitors how the measures taken work in practice, and so does this compensation. Madam President, I would like It is thanks to a broad cooperation in the Swedish Parliament that we have been able to act together since the corona virus outbreak to save people's lives and health, jobs and well-being. I'm both grateful and very happy about that. Today we are continuing this work on an important decision to protect some of the most vulnerable in our society. Since the outbreak of the virus in Sweden, we have been able to act vigorously and invest huge amounts of money to reduce the spread of infection and alleviate the financial impact of the pandemic on jobs and businesses. We can do this thanks to very strong public finances. During the good years we have saved in the barns to now be able to use our common economic strength to take responsibility for Sweden. But the economic situation in the future is difficult to assess and depends largely on how the spread of infection develops both globally and at home in Sweden. We do not yet know when the crisis is over. That is why it is important that we continue to take responsibility, both for saving lives, health and jobs here and now, and for managing financially a situation where the crisis is getting worse and longer than we thought.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-93	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by expressing my sincere thanks to all of you who work in Swedish healthcare and care, to all of you who are at the forefront of this pandemic. You have done a fantastic job, and now further challenges await as the spread of the disease takes off again. I urge everyone to follow the advice and guidelines of the authorities. Now is not the time to be selfish. Listen! Give me a hand! Make sure that health care has time to help the people who get seriously ill in covid-19! They are now again starting to fill the hospitals. Let me also say something to you who are young and seemingly healthy. Even you sometimes get very sick from this virus. Above all, you are moving on to other people who are more fragile than you. It's about your parents and grandparents and others who are much more fragile than you are. It is people who are undergoing cancer treatment. It is people who, for other reasons, have a compromised immune system. Make sure you help them so that they don't have to get this disease! People get cancer. People get heart disease. Accidents happen. The health services were already busy helping us other citizens before the pandemic. Now a very large group fills the hospitals. Help to break the spread of the disease now! Madam President, I would like Today's extra amending budget is about Désirée, Bernt, Anita, Vanja, Eva, Stig in Umeå where I come from and many more. It is people who work and are at risk, and they are so vulnerable that a disease in covid-19 may have very severe consequences. Those people need some form of compensation in order to stay home from work in order not to have to risk their lives or to ruin their economy. Those people and many more talked to Moderate Social Policy spokesperson Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. I don't know how many people she's talked to who are at risk. It was also Camilla Waltersson Grönvall who, on behalf of the Moderates, took the initiative and put forward the proposal for what was then called a disease carrier's allowance and which we are going to extend today. A very good work with the other parties of the Riksdag, first in the Social Committee and then in Parliament's Chamber, led to all this coming into place. Now also Maria Malmer Stenergard, the Moderate Social Security spokesperson, together with members from other parties here in the Riksdag, has ensured that this support has been put on the table today. It is gratifying that the aid will be extended to next year. It's important. I cannot interpret the Social Democrats and Åsa Westlund in any other way than that there is now a clear majority in order that those who are at risk should not have to have a lump in their stomach during Christmas because they do not know whether they will be able to stay home from work or not. That is a very good message to those who are in a risk group. Madam President, I would like Everyone who listens! The truth is, however, that from the very beginning this government only wanted to find problems with the proposal that the Moderates put forward on the basis of the disease carrier's allowance. They wanted to try to explain why it wouldn't work. Instead of trying to come up with constructive solutions, time was spent on this. It is a good thing that the Riksdag and the parties of the Riksdag pressured and made sure that they did not escape their responsibilities. Madam President, I would like We Moderates promised from the beginning of the crisis to work constructively and to do everything we could to help Sweden get through the crisis in the best way possible. We didn't know what we were up against. However, we have put forward proposals to reduce the spread of infection. We have developed and pushed through proposals for more money for health care. We have developed a large part of and pushed through economic crisis packages that have saved Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. It's been necessary. The government has repeatedly been forced to act by the Riksdag. The government has often worked slowly. They've been bureaucratic. The focus has often been on renaming proposals for support that the Moderates have put forward instead of making them as little bureaucratic and as good as possible. When the Moderates put forward proposals for turnover aid, the government's contribution was to rename it as conversion aid and to delay it. The question we are about to deal with today is an extension of the Moderates' proposal in the form of infectivity pay. The government's contribution was to rename it, delay it and not contribute to anything but finding problems until a majority of the parliament clearly told the government which way to go. Last summer, when tens of thousands of jobs were threatened, the government chose to go on vacation instead of doing what was needed to help save businesses. Again, the Moderates took the lead. We made sure that Parliament pressed for the support to be put in place. The government is trying to hide behind their authorities. You don't want to take responsibility. They're sending out government officials. It is always the government that bears the ultimate responsibility, Madam President. If you are not prepared to bear the ultimate responsibility, you should resign. Then you shouldn't carry the government. You can't hide behind government agencies and government officials. This morning, I also saw that instead of taking responsibility, the government is trying to blame the health care system for the spread of infection and testing activities. Madam President, I would like I think this government should get its act together. It should do its job. We're in a crisis. Give me a hand! Work constructively! Make sure to have the same good spirit that we have many times in the Swedish Parliament! Make sure that together we can do everything we can to make sure that Sweden can get through this very difficult crisis that we are actually only at the beginning of. In conclusion, I would like to say something about what Åsa Westlund said in her speech that it is not easy for the government and that it takes time to produce things. That can certainly be the case. She also said that no one else had foreseen what would happen. I would like to remind you that in the moderate budgetary motion we had a very clear and large crisis buffer. We wrote in our draft budget that we do not know whether the pandemic is over and what further crisis measures will need to be taken. In the moderate budget motion there was thus the space that Åsa Westlund claims is not available for this support and many other support. The government planned for good weather and good times, even though we are in the midst of the crisis. The Moderates didn't. We had a proper crisis buffer to get this kind of support in place. In so doing, I support the committee's proposal to extend the compensation of risk groups.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-111	Madam President, I would like The situation is serious. More and more intensive care is being taken, and the spread of covid-19 is rapidly increasing again. That is why what we are discussing today, extended compensation to risk groups, is incredibly important. Madam President, I would like Society would stop if bus drivers, child nurses and nurses were to work from home. Class determines who is at risk of infection and who can escape. Working from home can certainly work if you work as a commercial in Stockholm's inner city, but working from home does not work as well if you are driving the night train to Malmö. All of us here depend on the shelves in the shops being filled with merchandise and on someone being able to take care of us if we get sick. The employer also has a responsibility to change and find other tasks for the person belonging to a risk group. There are already good examples of this today, but more are needed. It looks different in different workplaces, and it differs between municipalities. This is precisely why long-term information is needed. Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that the government has not been able to act more quickly to ensure the remuneration of risk groups. During the period, people have been hit hard. That's why we want to lift this up, not to say, what we said. However, it has affected people in need of compensation. The government claims that the regulation introduced is comparable to the design of a new social security benefit. I normally sit on the Social Security Committee and have previously been on the Finance Committee. I and the Left Party do not share that assessment. The structure chosen by the government was already proposed by the Left Party in March. Many have been refused their applications because of the delay, and several have felt a great deal of stress because of the ignorance of what is to happen. Employers who have changed have not known how long it will last, and the workers themselves have not been able to feel confident in knowing that they will also have to worry about being infected next month. Madam President, I would like The government first learned from the Social Security Committee and also from the public that at the end of the year compensation for risk groups would be stopped. Then you would have been away for more than 180 days from work, and then you had to change beautifully. The Left Party generally wants to change the kind of incomprehensible rules that unfortunately exist in our health insurance. We're running out of precipices in our insurance system, and that should apply to all sick people, regardless of their diagnosis. Perhaps the pandemic can bring something good. Perhaps more, perhaps even other parliamentary politicians, perhaps even Moderates, can understand that we cannot have it this way. If you're sick, you should have the right to be sick. That's just the way it is. Madam President, I would like The Left Party therefore proposed a committee initiative to compensate the risk groups after the end of the year. I don't want to say that it was the Left Party's merit - no, it even says in writing that we don't have any influence. In any case, the government has now announced that it wishes to extend the period of compensation and the number of days until 31 March. The Left Party, of course, welcomes this announcement and assumes that the government will also increase the number of days eligible for compensation during the same period within the temporary benefits of certain sickness benefit for preventive purposes, certain sickness pay and certain temporary parental benefit. The Left Party assumes, of course, that this will be in place before the turn of the year, so that people will not once again find themselves in a gap of uncertainty and economic stress. These things just have to work. Madam President, I would like I see it as self-evident that those who are entitled to compensation also receive it and that no misassessments are made on the basis of diagnostic criteria and other things. We are critical of the demarcation that the government has made for people living with someone who belongs to a risk group. We believe that the rules are too tight. Provisions on the care of children belonging to a risk group are also problematic as they only apply to children who have recently been seriously ill. Other permits that make them belong to a risk group do not entitle them to compensation. For example, a review of the newspaper The work from August showed that the data on relatives was produced in haste. Maybe the government can now take the chance and make sure this is right. I'd really appreciate it. Madam President, I would like We have put forward other proposals for major and important changes to health insurance that should apply to everyone affected by disease regardless of diagnosis. I want to be clear about this. People are not only now faced with problems in terms of insurance benefits, but every day. Sick people end up in situations where they are unable to support themselves and are not entitled to the compensation to which they are entitled when they are ill. We have also on several occasions proposed a more balanced response to the economic crisis that we are now in. Companies have received substantial support, while health care and care workers – those who are now working hard – are under pressure due to insufficient resources. Crisis policy must not contribute to widening gaps, but should be designed in such a way that we can build a more robust and stronger society. But better late than never, I say. Compensation for risk groups is an important part of crisis policy. I support the committee's proposal.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-123	Madam President, I would like We should all be careful and we should all take responsibility in these pandemic times. It is particularly important to protect the most vulnerable from covid-19, i.e. the people we know are threatened with a very serious disease if they are infected. The Christian Democrats have therefore called for measures that provide the best possible protection, not least for children and adults and their relatives. This is what we are discussing here and now, in other words preventive sickness benefit, parental benefit and some sickness benefit. We therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in order to ensure that this extra amending budget, albeit very much delayed, is implemented, so that people who have been unremunerated now get it back. Madam President, I would like It is on the ground that during the debate on the supplementary amending budget, we should also be allowed to express criticism of how the issue has been handled. As the government itself writes, it is a compensation designed to protect those individuals who are most at risk of suffering from a particularly serious disease from contracting the disease. It is precisely against this background that the slowness shown is not acceptable. It has affected vulnerable people not only financially but also mentally. In June, we decided in the Swedish Parliament that certain risk groups would be entitled to preventive sickness benefit. It has been in force from 1 July to 30 September. On 15 September, Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi joined the Social Security Committee. The minister then received a unanimous reply. All the parties in the committee, and also in this House, made it clear that the preventive compensation would apply at least throughout the year. That's the clear message he got. I then indicated that the position of the Christian Democrats is that the compensation should apply until a vaccine is available. It is now almost two months since the Minister for Social Security came to committee. Today, we are finally going to take the decision that will enable those people who have been unpaid for some time and who have asked for an extension but have been rejected by the Social Insurance Agency to get this back for them financially absolutely decisive compensation. It is an incomprehensible delay that has taken place in such an important decision, which is also supported by a completely united parliament. The Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats in the Social Security Committee, have proposed a committee initiative. This initiative involves the Government returning to the Riksdag with proposals that those belonging to a risk group should be able to receive preventive sickness benefit until 31 March 2021. The initiative was rejected in the light of the fact that, as recently as a few weeks ago, the government showed no attempt whatsoever to think beyond 31 December this year – despite the fact that for some time now we have seen a sharp increase in the spread of covid-19 in a majority of the country's regions. The initiative is that in January there would be no new gap in the compensation. Since the initiative was presented, however, the government has met us on this point. The Christian Democrats believe that the possibility of sickness benefit for risk groups for preventive purposes should apply until a vaccine is available, and this should be tested three months at a time. Why this story? It is not primarily aimed at criticising the slowness of the government, although it can and should be criticised, but it is absolutely necessary to confirm the frustration, anger and concern that these risk groups have expressed through countless telephone calls and emails. The feeling of insecurity in the face of a life-threatening virus should never be touched ever because the message cannot be given or decisions are not made in time. We assume that everyone has learned from what has happened and is happening so that we do not have to come back to this, but that we will continue to deal with risk groups in a wise and clear way. I support the committee's proposal.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-130	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by apologising for not being here because of unfortunate circumstances and being able to make my speech earlier when I was on the list of speakers. I'm glad it still worked out. We naturally support the Government's proposal to extend the reimbursement of risk groups until December. We have been clear that we have been all the way behind this compensation. We have been doing this ever since the committee initiative was raised in the Committee on Social Affairs. However, as the previous speaker, Hans Eklind of the Christian Democrats, I would like to criticise how the government has handled the whole process. This has put these vulnerable groups in an extremely vulnerable situation. They have always had to wait for information, and they have been left without compensation. Before this amending budget came, the government had only extended the application period but not the number of days to be paid out. Only when the Social Security Committee called Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson to the committee did the government speed up by squeezing this amending budget. It has had to be produced since September, and it was known that the entire Social Security Committee was behind an extension. It is good that this has finally been developed. It is good that, after the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates and also the Left Party in the Social Security Committee, the government initiated an initiative to extend after December finally to extend the compensation until after the end of the year. Just a few weeks earlier, Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi had said that it was out of the question to extend after December. I am delighted that the government is listening to the opposition, but I am concerned about what would have happened if the opposition had not been there and taken a stand for these vulnerable groups in their situation. This goes without saying to me: if you belong to a risk group and risk becoming seriously ill or even losing your life because you go to a job where it is not possible to work from home, you should receive compensation and have the opportunity to protect yourself from the pandemic. For me, it is so obvious that we should not even have a debate. We should not even have to discuss this today. I want to make it clear that the reservation we have absolutely has nothing to do with the extension. We support this 100%. However, we think that the government should also look at how to assess who is at risk, because here we have met frustration and many questions from those who belong to risk groups. For example, a person with a serious heart condition has been required to have diabetes or any other disease at the same time in order to be compensated. This has created many questions. It was also in the past that one could have a severely impaired lung capacity but would still have another diagnosis. This has now been corrected by the government, and there have been some directives from the National Board of Health and Welfare to look at this, and I have been told by an answer to a written question to the government. But on Försäkringskassan's website it still says that anyone who has a serious heart condition should have another diagnosis. We want to send a mission to the government to ensure that those who belong to risk groups and are at risk of serious illness receive the compensation to which we believe they are entitled. We think that this assessment is far too narrow today. There is, as I see it, no risk of over-exploitation. Approximately 100 000 applications were expected. In September we were given the task of 3 000 applications, so it is far below what was expected. The budget has not been used. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-140	Madam President, I would like I support the reservation contained in the report. Recently, situations have arisen where electricity shortages have occurred in Sweden. This is the case if electricity generation does not cover demand or if there is insufficient capacity to transmit electricity. The lack of capacity in electricity networks has become even more evident as a result of the growth of cities without the simultaneous strengthening and modernisation of electricity networks at the same pace. This affects both households and business in Sweden. At the same time, there is a general problem that is now found in almost all permit granting in Sweden, namely too long waiting times in permit processes. To obtain a licence for the development of electricity networks may take up to 10 to 12 years. These shortcomings have led to problems for companies around Sweden. It is not difficult to imagine the situation. Which companies would be pleased with the announcement to wait 12 years to get electricity to the factory or plant they were planning to build? It is not only investment that is missing, but it is also jobs and tax revenue that are being lost. This is a major obstacle to the development of society that is desirable in order to achieve fossil freedom through electrification, which is expected to significantly increase electricity consumption. The expansion of transmission capacity must also be more consistent with social planning. Madam President, I would like We support the Committee on Economic Affairs' proposal that the Government should follow up and analyse the measures taken by the various actors to counter the acute capacity shortage in the electricity grids that affected Stockholm and Skåne in particular during the previous year. The follow-up will also highlight whether there are other measures to be taken that are more effective and therefore more appropriate if similar situations arise again. On the other hand, we believe that the description of the situation is missing a key reason why the situation in the electricity market has gone from serious to acute, namely the fact that the government – also in the previous year – chose to increase the tax on, among other things, cogeneration through energy, carbon dioxide and waste incineration taxes. In an interpellation debate that took place in this House in May 2019, the undersigned and Social Democratic Minister for Energy Anders Ygeman discussed the announced taxes on cogeneration. The government's answer was then that it did not see that this could lead to a shortage of transmission capacity. Anders Ygeman commented: a decision is made by Stockholm's politicians whether they believe that there is a risk of regional capacity shortages if they want to produce electricity in their work or if they want to maximise their own profit and then produce heat. So the government did not see this problem coming, or – at best – they did not consider this to be their problem, despite the warnings that came from all the actors and consultation bodies when preparing these tax increases. The Swedish Democrats believe that this lack of understanding is part of the problem. It is at least clear to us that the shock-raised tax on cogeneration forced the closure of cogeneration in both Malmö and Stockholm. This significantly reduced electricity generation and the conditions for greater new connections to the electricity grids in these regions. We therefore believe that the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs should have included that the government should also monitor how the increased taxes on cogeneration contributed to creating the acute capacity shortage that arose. In this context, too, there may be grounds for analysing other relevant taxes that may have contributed to and had an impact on the situation. We think it should be quite self-evident to take account of the consequences of energy policy, but here we are, unfortunately, the only one who thinks so.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-147	Madam President, I would like We are debating report NU5, lack of capacity in electricity networks. I support the committee's proposal for a decision and reject the reservation. 150 years ago Sweden started electrifying. Kerosene lamps were replaced with light bulbs. Wood stoves were replaced with electric stoves. In fact, Sweden was the first country in the world where virtually all households have been electrified. Now we are on the threshold, or on the border, of the next generation electrification. We'll reset the transport system. We're already on our way. Faster than we think, large parts of the passenger car fleet will be electrically powered. We will also see the same developments in those parts of the industry that have not yet been electrified. Sweden has unique conditions to cope with the transition to renewable energy while ensuring security of supply and competitiveness. Last year, 163 terawatt hours of electricity were produced in Sweden. We net exported 26 terawatt hours, which is all-time record. We Social Democrats, which are a climate party, are very pleased with this development. But of course there are challenges. One of the challenges is the lack of capacity in electricity networks. We see a strong urbanisation where metropolitan regions are growing. Totally new electricity-intensive activities have been added, such as server halls with a power demand that sometimes corresponds to the power demand of a city of Västerås size. In Stockholm County, for example, the population has increased by more than 250 000 people. But investments in electricity networks have not increased at the same rate at all. That is why, Madam President, the government, together with the energy industry, presented an initiative to increase investment in electricity networks and to increase regional impact. The government intended to present a legislative proposal that would help increase investment in the electricity grid. The local electricity grid owners in Skåne and Stockholm would make efforts to secure the local and regional impact in each region. The direct results were that the combined heat and power in Malmö and Stockholm were not shut down, thus ensuring sufficient power. Now the committee wants to see what effects the government took last autumn to counter the acute capacity shortage in Stockholm and Skåne. Were they effective, or could they be done in a different way? Monitoring and analysis are always good to know if the measures taken achieve the desired effect and how cost-effective they have been. This is done to know in the future what is most effective to do. What we know is that most things in society now go much faster than a few years ago. These include, for example, the expansion of electricity-intensive activities. But it is also about the expansion of renewable energy. Madam President, I would like As society is electrified, electricity grids and the electricity market at all levels need to be developed, expanded and used more efficiently. Several measures are under way and are planned to create favourable conditions for a well-functioning electricity market. In the debate, it may sound like nothing is done, but it is of course wrong. Swedish power networks make historically large investments in the transmission network, and also regional and local actors make investments in their networks. These are investments in new connections, market integration and reinvestment in existing infrastructure. SVK makes a series of measures to deal with the capacity shortage in the long term but also as short-term solutions before new lines are in place. Other measures include shorter and more efficient licensing processes, market design, demand response, network stability and additional system services. Madam President, I would like Finally, when Sweden was electrified 150 years ago, society was characterised by the spirit of the future. Let's do it again. There are challenges with the electricity grids, but we have good conditions. We need to do many things at the same time, and we will have to help each other. Because I am convinced that in order for a small country to face major challenges, it will take us to do things together.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-160	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I highlighted the reservation that the Swedish Democrats have in the report, in which we want the analyses also to take into account the impact of the tax increases on the decisions taken in the case of cogeneration. From the government's side and in the responses that have been given in interpellation debates, one has spoken from the context that one has no idea whether it has affected or not. More has been done to ensure that it is left to Stockholm politicians to take the decision. It is believed that this can lead to lack of effect and so on. At this point, however, we feel that it is important for energy policy to have a political understanding of how rules, taxes and market functions affect the decisions taken by stakeholders to ensure that we continue to have an electricity system characterised by a high level of security of supply and a high level of reliability in operation. Madam President, I would like At some point, however, I would like to ask whether the Social Democrats believe that the tax increases affected or did not affect the decisions taken to shut down cogeneration.
i-8LRfjR3nKu8AjsgDY2HEDZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the question! This issue has been discussed, just as Mattias Bäckström Johansson raises, in several interpellation debates. The answer has been quite clear. You should bear your own costs and also environmental costs. That's what it boils down to. The municipalities own the CHP companies, so certainly the Stockholm politicians have a responsibility in this. This applies to how to design the business in the future. But this also applies to what you choose to charge for profits from each company. Whatever the case, it is the network companies that make network investments. We can see that in many metropolitan regions the network companies have not made these investments which we have still seen we need. That is why we are in this situation, I believe.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-167	Madam President, I would like I want to think somewhere that understanding is important. It takes a long time to build electricity grids, ten to twelve years. It may take just as long to build new power generation to compensate. It takes a long time to reset if you have a combined heat and power plant where, for example, you can use fossil-based fuel to fire at a peak load. It takes time to reset. Here the tax increases are thrown forward with a few months' notice and expect them to be able to reset. It was not possible, and this led to the closure of power generation. This means that problems of lack of power are forced to do very little or none at all. It creates restrictions in Sweden that companies cannot expand their operations. They cannot create jobs. We will then have to compensate for importing electricity from neighbouring countries. We can see both in Denmark and Germany and in Poland that it is coal power that we are increasing our dependence on somewhere. It leads us away from a path based on fossil freedom. Instead, we should see the benefits of investment being made, of changing and of allowing it to take the necessary time. Here we remain concerned. If you lack that understanding, it may be difficult to get us out of this situation. In such cases, I only agree that this should be given greater consideration in policy-making. It takes a very long time to build new facilities, and it takes a long time to get out of this. If we do not see this, we will not be able to solve the problems we have before us with emergency calls and various handshake leading to different forms of sub-optimisation.
i-AQ4sXhvkyuLGNUZs5q9aKq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the debate! The production of cogeneration is extremely important from the perspective that it is where people live. This is the great merit of both district heating and power generation. Of course, their conditions should be reasonable. But it can come as no surprise that we are moving towards a fossil-free society, not for any of us either in this House or in the power industry. I would say that the decisions on tax changes were announced in one way or another in good time. I still think you should bring that with you. Of course, it hurts to change. I think we know a little bit about that sometimes. But whatever the case, it's a necessary journey we're making. Nevertheless, I think we have come out of this well. I would like to point out that the situation we are now in is very much that the network companies have not invested to the extent that they should have done for a long time. That is the crux of the matter.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-174	Madam President, I would like Skåne, like the whole of Sweden, wants to switch to fossil-free electricity and become greener. But how can it be possible for Skåne when you do not have sufficient electricity capacity and are forced to use electricity from oil power plants in the middle of the summer? The actors and Skåne companies should be able to concentrate on their lives and activities and not on whether there is sufficient electricity capacity. In this committee report, we from the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals and the Center Party have taken the initiative that the measures taken to resolve the acute capacity shortage in Skåne and Stockholm in 2019 should be followed up and evaluated and reported back to the Riksdag. What specific investment space has been approved for investments in the electricity grid, and are these cost-effective? Skåne and Stockholm are regions that have had acute impact problems. It was something that we could see coming but that the minister in charge tried persistently to tone down until the problem was a fact. This is a political management problem. Both the production and distribution of electricity, although this is a form of market economy, depends on political decisions. Madam President, I would like Now we are here, and steps have now been taken to try to overcome the acute shortage situation. But what are the measures, how big are they and what is the cost? These are relevant questions. What is being done, and what can be done to prevent more acute electrical power problems? What is being done to ensure that the measures taken are the best and most cost-effective? Madam President, I would like Unless policies make the right decisions and promote the robustness of the capacity of the electricity system, much is at risk. It is not a shortage of electricity capacity that we need when companies are going to kick-start after the coronapndemine and in a recession. On the contrary, electricity capacity will be more important than ever. We see increased digitalisation and increased electrification as some of the strongest trends after the coronapandemine. The closure of the last part of Barsebäck in 2005 and the closure of Ringhalsverken now hit southern Sweden and Skåne especially – this is because the reliable hydropower is mostly located in the north and because the capacity in the pipes is not always sufficient. Skåne has been made vulnerable since the local planning energy from nuclear power has been shut down without being replaced by other planning electricity. You cannot rely on wind power or solar energy as long as the energy cannot be stored efficiently. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a welfare country. It has its background in the fact that we are a strong industrial nation and that quality and efficiency have always been a guiding principle. This is also due to the fact that we have had good access to reliable and relatively cheap energy for our business community and society as a whole. The whole basic concept of Swedish success is based on good capacity in the electricity grids. This has enabled us to be competitive in the basic industry, which still accounts for a large part of our export goods. We now have a business and a society that has taken on the great task of turning to an energy consumption that is fossil-free. It's a huge challenge. This is also partly why the new industry, such as computer halls and battery production, is actually located in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Despite working a lot on energy efficiency in industry and the rest of society, the transition to the fossil-free society we all want will require more, not less, energy. The basic industry, like steel and forest, needs a lot of energy. But this is not just true of them, but largely all industrial production depends on cheap and reliable energy – an energy that today must also be fossil-free for the sake of the climate. Otherwise, municipalities and companies are forced to turn down important business start-ups. It is a wrong order when the desire to establish itself as a company exists, but not the power capacity. What measures have been taken to ensure electricity capacity in southern Sweden and in the Stockholm area? And how effective have these measures been? These are two very relevant questions to which the Committee on Economic Affairs now wants an answer. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-185	Madam President, I would like We all know the background to the fact that we are here today. During 2019 my home region Skåne, but also Stockholm, suffered from a lack of capacity in the electricity grid. This meant, among other things, that companies could not get an answer if they could start new production, that new districts in Malmö had to be turned around and that uncertainty about the conversion of the bus fleet into electric buses was created. The government, the Swedish power grid and the regional electricity grid owners then took various measures to address the situation. It was a good thing, and it was necessary, that the government and others finally got a little bit of momentum to solve a problem that has been on the horizon for a long time. But it is also important to ensure that the decisions then made were the right ones. Therefore, the Center Party, together with M, L and KD, took the initiative to require the government to analyse the measures taken to counter the acute capacity shortage in Skåne, among others. It is important both to analyse the measures themselves and, of course, to ensure that the measures are cost-effective. This is particularly important in order to prepare for any future problems, because there is a risk that capacity problems will not be over. We are in the midst of an exciting transition to a more sustainable society with reduced emissions. One of the key solutions in Fossil-free Sweden's road maps is electrification of society. For a long time, Sweden has remained relatively stable when it comes to the demand for electricity; we have even had surpluses that we have been able to export. But now the demand for electricity is expected to increase sharply when electrifying what corresponds to approximately one and a half times Denmark – not in terms of size but in number of people. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been that much! Energy efficiency will remedy some, but it will not be consistent with increased demand. At the same time, a lot now points out that the network is undersized with many bottlenecks. The problem is not that there is too little electricity produced, but that the networks are unable to deliver in line with growing needs. This is a direct threat to the entire climate transition and Sweden's ability to reach net zero emissions by 2045. It is also a threat to the Swedish industry and all the jobs it contributes. We must take corporate warning bells about not being able to expand their business in Skåne very seriously. This also applies to the Stockholm region. With rapid growth, high housing in large cities, large server halls and more electric vehicles, the Swedish electricity grids today do not meet the growing needs. Unfortunately, it will take years to expand the backbone networks. Other short-term solutions are therefore needed. The Center Party has led the way with a series of proposals. Madam President, I would like We must make it more expensive with electricity when the pressure is at its highest and cheaper when there is more capacity. That's why the Center Party wants to introduce hourly measurement by 2025. We want the electricity tax to be adapted to use. Municipalities and the public sector need to be better at using electricity more efficiently and to adapt their use so as not to contribute to the peaks in electricity demand. In concrete terms, for example, it may be a matter of pushing on the heating of swimming pools for an hour or so in order to avoid overloading the electricity grids while households are doing so. The conditions for local power must be improved. It is partly about the competitiveness of cogeneration, as others have mentioned here today, and partly about opportunities to build offshore wind power for example in Skåne and southern Sweden and to drag the cables to the right places. Today, this often puts an end to the defence and local protests. We must also make sharper demands on the network companies to procure more local power. They in turn claim that the responsibility lies with the Swedish power grid. In this respect, we need to clarify the responsibility of the network companies to secure the power that is needed locally. The regions should review the use of electricity to identify who uses only part of the electricity they have in their subscription and whether it is possible to renegotiate certain contracts to free up capacity. It was one of the things we saw gave great effect in connection with the efforts in Skåne. It's relevant to the whole country. We must continue to stimulate innovation in order to store electricity in surplus situations, for example in batteries and hydrogen. Finally, Madam President, the electricity grid must be expanded, but the licensing processes are taking far too long. The Center Party therefore wants to introduce a sharp target of halved permit periods. At the same time, we need to create a fast track for climate-smart investments and ensure that the different parts of the process by the authorities can run in parallel and not consecutively. It would create much faster state processes. Madam President, I would like So there are plenty of solutions to take off to solve the capacity shortage in Skåne and the rest of the country. That Ygeman and the government eventually copied several of the Center Party's proposals to solve the capacity shortage in Skåne last year was very positive, but the government has throughout this fadäs been tough and unwilling to talk with the other parties. We can't have that! Other parties have been willing to talk, but nothing has happened. These are far too important issues for such action. Nor can we build the energy solutions of the future on the fact that Scanian electricity customers will pay for system errors they have not caused. It's time to ensure that the actors get an electricity system that ensures both sustainable urban development and green transport – and yes, of course, freshly baked fiddles. What kind of show would I be if I didn't finish with some good coffee? I support the committee's proposal.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-202	Madam President, I would like I will begin by quoting what the committee in this report actually requires to be done. The committee's proposal in brief is in line with the committee's statement that the government should follow up and analyse the measures taken by the actors involved to counter the acute capacity shortage in the electricity grids that affected the two regions of Skåne and Stockholm in 2019. ..................................................... I would like to take this opportunity to thank the initiators of the committee initiative for the fact that there is now an announcement that looks at the reasons which have led to a lack of capacity in the electricity grids of the above-mentioned regions. In particular, it is a text which makes me happy and which actually led me and the Left Party to support the initiative, Madam President. To taste these words, analyse the measures taken by the actors involved to counter the acute shortage of capacity in the electricity grids. Involved actors, it says. Here I believe that different parties will focus on different scapegoats or at least try to pass on responsibility to the government in particular. I should like to state firmly that the reason why we have ended up in this situation can be spelled by the liberalisation of the electricity market. Madam President, I would like When this market experiment was introduced, the arguments were that the energy industry would be more efficient, that electricity would be cheaper and that choice would be increased for consumers. It is true that you can choose electricity trading companies, but you cannot choose who is in charge of the electricity grids that supply your electricity. What about consumers? Did it get cheaper? It must be admitted that electricity in Sweden today is relatively cheap, but I would argue that this also has to do with policy measures, at least that the production of renewable electricity with incentives in the start-up phase has made this a success. I am also, of course, thinking of the certification system and everything that has brought in things that are actually competitive. But what about the electricity grids? Well, there is probably nothing in society that has had the same price trend as electricity grid prices, and I mean price increases that have affected consumers. It's complicated to go through everything about how this market experiment was supposed to work, but at least I'm doing an attempt to explain – and understand for myself, for that matter. According to the Electricity Act, customers' electricity network charges shall be objective and non-discriminatory. If a client in the least rural areas pays SEK 7 000 more for the transport of the same amount of electricity as a customer in the big city, isn't that a little discriminatory? The Swedish Energy Market Authority is a regulatory authority and decides on the revenue framework for electricity grid companies, i.e. the total amount that customers will pay together for network owners to operate, write off and return on capital. Then there are wordings that compare it with alternative investments with comparable risks and so on. The question I ask myself is whether there are reasonable returns when you raise the price by 7% to 8% on the grounds that the money should go to investments but when, with the result in hand, only 1% went to investments? Are the differences in the country and between the companies reasonable? Is it reasonable that something that we regard as social infrastructure has become a lucrative market, on which there is also a monopoly? There are billions that the network companies have rolled over to the parent companies and from there have been passed over as dividends to the owners. I tend to be a pragmatic politician most of the time, and I understand that the market can sometimes solve challenges in a decent way. However, when social functions are allowed to be the subject of profit maximisation where consumers become the payers and with the consequence that everything becomes more expensive and worse, my confidence in the functioning of the market in this area disappears. Back to the report, Madam President, and what is said about monitoring and analysing the measures taken by the actors involved. I very much hope that the follow-up will also provide answers about other actors besides of course the Swedish power grid, the government and the regulator. I hope that the responsibility of the network owners will also be examined, that you look further away from the annual report and see how much the owners can collect in a supervisory period. Here, I think, we should look at at at least a ten-year period: how much has consumers' money been collected that was meant to look at the whole of the electricity grids so that they work in future scenarios? Madam President, I would like If I could wish for something of capitalism, it would be to give away, in the name of decency, things that no citizen can avoid. Here I could mention many things that have been liberalised and where the policy should have acted differently. However, in order not to run the risk of being excluded from the subject, Madam President, I will stay by comparison. But as an appeal to liberal marketers: do not let greed break cohesion, which we can make so much good out of in this country!
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-214	Madam President, I would like In the last year, Sweden's electricity supply has been severely shaken several times. A year ago several companies in Skåne and Stockholm were forced to cancel extensive investments and new constructions. The reason was that there was not enough access to electricity in the right place and at the right time. Thousands of jobs were at risk, and Sweden's reputation as an entrepreneurial-friendly country was dragged a little bit into the dirt. The situation was resolved by a rapidly patched-up crisis package on the part of the government. This summer it was time again. Swedish power grids were then forced to take emergency measures to cope with operational safety in southern Sweden. A fast procurement was made to make Ringhals 1, Karlhamnsverket and Rya CHP plants available, to improve voltage stability and provide short-circuit power. Had it not been done, serious errors could have occurred. Madam President, I would like This is not how we can have it in Sweden. Companies and households must be able to count on a safe and secure supply of electricity. It is a hygiene factor for a welfare country like Sweden, where I feel that both citizens and companies want to contribute to climate change for real. But then we need secure access to electricity. Such shortcomings in the electricity system lead to expensive and ill-considered emergency measures. The fact that we are being forced to burn fossil fuels is a major setback for our climate work. This calls for political impetus, as the transition of society leads to increased demands for safe access to electricity. If industry, transport and all the companies that are facing enormous opportunities and have a desire to contribute to the transition, this means that we politicians must provide the conditions. The situation that occurred in Skåne and the Stockholm region in 2019 revealed serious shortcomings in network capacity, and the situation escalated rapidly from a serious to an acute situation. The reasons were several, including the delayed transmission connections that had been delayed but should have been completed. We also know that Barsebäck was decommissioned 20 and 15 years ago. Local production has also been decommissioned. Madam President, I would like Today we are a united committee because, together with the Moderates, Liberals and the Center Party, we have presented this committee initiative. We are a united committee that wants to look at the situation that has arisen and to see analyses of the measures that were carried out, which appear to be a number of ambiguities and conflicting data, such as measures where state emergency funds have been used to buy gas turbines or where electricity grid companies have been given the opportunity to finance the purchase of local electricity through the revenue framework. We Christian Democrats also see it as self-evident that the analysis will bring different perspectives to the cause and that it escalated so quickly. I am thinking, among other things, of the monstrous tax burden imposed by the government and the co-operative parties on cogeneration last year, which has thrown away the bones of these players and that it plays a role in the situation that has arisen. Since there is no public statement describing all the measures that have been taken – the effects they have produced and the cost of this – there are good reasons for the government to follow up on this and look further and analyse it in order to learn lessons when situations such as these arise again. The Swedish Energy Market Authority indicates that more cities may face similar situations in the future, not only Stockholm and Skåne's regions that already have a harsh situation. It is therefore important that this work is carried out promptly and reported to the Riksdag.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-223	Madam President, I would like I would like to start somewhere else than where we have now been in the debate. I sat and listened to the others who debated, and so I thought about those images from space, you know, where you see how the earth is lit up in different time zones. First, the earth is all dark, and then it starts glistening around the entire planet by lights lit, by cities waking up and by human activity. I am very warm in my body, Madam President, when I think of how people have created so much prosperity and so much freedom and opportunity for themselves and future generations! Madam President, I would like Electricity really is something that creates freedom. Every lamp lit and glittering on earth could be lit by a child who gets light to do his homework in. Or it is an industry that shines, where a mother or a father goes to work and creates prosperity and creates the foundation for all the well-being that exists around our planet and also here in Sweden. Any such lamp that is lit could be a headlight at a theatre or concert where culture is created. Madam President, I would like It is indeed true that electricity and the use of electricity is something beautiful. It is indeed a representative of human ingenuity, and it is a representative of our common desire to create freedom and opportunities. Madam President, I would like The world and the earth – the earth that we can see lit up from space – are facing an extremely big challenge with climate change. It sometimes sounds like time ends around 2045 in the debate, because that is where we stop talking about our goals. It's not like that. Time will hopefully continue even after 2045. My point of departure and that of Liberals is that emissions that damage the climate must be eliminated. It is not enough that we have a little more energy efficiency here and there and let out a little less and beat our chests because we think we are letting out a little less than our European friends, because emissions must be eliminated. It is not a question of reducing them, it is a question of removing them. If we do this, increased use of electricity with electrification where we switch to use electricity more and more will be absolutely necessary. In light of this, it is of course extremely tragic when the chambers of commerce in Skåne and Stockholm – we have talked a lot about Skåne and Stockholm here today – warn that companies do not want to establish themselves in these regions because they are afraid of capacity shortages. It is extremely painful to hear, because it is when companies turn on lights and turn on the machines of their industries and when enterprising people go to work and work that prosperity is created. That is when the foundation for our entire prosperity is laid. It is also then that a young child sitting at home reading his homework can see his parents as role models and go to work. I have to say that electricity and energy are basically one of the most primary parts of the core of welfare. It is, of course, totally unacceptable when power shortages, energy shortages or capacity shortages put people's wheels on the road. It must never be an obstacle to human development. That is totally unacceptable. It is against this background that one needs to get to the bottom of this and examine, look and find flaws and look at what opportunities there are to change it. The system we have cannot be built in such a way that we are talking in the debate about the establishment of, for example, server halls as a problem. It is fantastic regardless of which company or which business wants to establish itself in Sweden, and to create opportunities for more people it is something positive. Then we must have a system that is dimensioned for this, and it must be dimensioned to be able to deliver fossil-free energy, fossil-free electricity, no matter what time of day or day of the year we are talking about. And no matter what happens, this part, which is one of the most basic elements of the core of well-being, must be secured. Madam President, I would like I'm cosmopolitan in the heart. I want to travel the world. And when I go out and travel in the world I want to be able to say that I am proud of Sweden. I want to be able to say: in Sweden we can do this. We're able to reset and electrify. We manage to have economic development while protecting the climate. I want Sweden to be able to set an example so that more of these lamps around the world are lit with the help of fossil-free energy sources, electricity sources, and not with fossil electricity sources as it is unfortunately often today. Once again, it is unacceptable when we have to use fossil sources when the shortage is too great. That is unacceptable. Madam President, I would like Against this background, because I want to continue to travel electrified in the world and because I want to continue to be proud that we have economic development, because I believe in man and because I understand that electricity is a fundamental part of the welfare that creates freedom for people, I support this report.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-236	Madam President, I would like Liberals and Joar Forssell generally have wise views on energy policy. I can agree with much of what was said in the speech here. What the report does not support, however, is precisely to analyse and look at the impact of changes in taxes on the decisions that have to be taken for plant owners, how it affects cogeneration and so on, and precisely to analyse the energy policy implications of it. I think there is a problem in energy policy with a lack of understanding of rules, taxes and market functions and how it affects, and I think that we need to have an understanding of this when designing a sensible energy policy that will make it sustainable over time. I would like to ask the Liberals: do the Liberals not think that tax changes affect the decisions that plant owners need to take?
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-239	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the question! I'm glad we're having this discussion. This is my first debate as a new member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. It's always fun to get a line change. I just want to say it first. When you tax something, it is clear that it will affect. Of course it is. This is the case in all areas of tax policy and here too. I think it is perfectly reasonable to support the proposal as it stands. You have to start looking at this somewhere, and even if we look at these very effects and do the screening in that area, it does not close the door to other searches. I'm part of the January parties. Before I came to the Committee on Economic Affairs, I was a spokesperson for the Liberals, and I know that when we negotiate on tax policy in January, we are also considering effects in different directions. It is no secret that we in the Liberals have sometimes been critical of things that we have agreed to in negotiations because we have got other things through. But to lift this out and specifically point to it, I don't really fit in this particular product. Then it is natural to constantly evaluate the impact of all kinds of decisions taken in politics. It is clear that there are tax measures that affect this. There are certainly also things about the education system – do we, for example, have enough good engineers working on this? There is so much if we are going to expand this product, and then perhaps we should not stop at what the Swedish Democrats raise in their reservation, but there are certainly many other things that also affect. I hope that in an analysis we can find actors who point to that, so that we can do more in the future.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-243	Madam President, I would like What creates the specific topicality here is precisely the direct impact of taxes that were shocked in a few months without prior notice. In practice, there was no possibility of changing without going at a loss. This has forced the situation to move from serious to emergency. You miss the target somewhere. Of course, we may burn a little less fossil in peak load situations in Sweden, but instead we make ourselves more dependent on imports of coal power produced electricity from our neighbouring countries. Then there will be no benefit for the environment as a whole, either, because the climate is global. We find it boring to miss the realization of the direct impact of this. Then there are many other things linked to these taxes that can also be buried in, but they can be dealt with in other reports. However, we think it is very central to understanding that everything is connected and that decisions have an impact when you already had a lack of effect. They had the entrance that there would be no influence, but everyone said it would still be. As a result, the problem of capacity shortages escalated even further. If you do not have this understanding, we are afraid that you will not be able to solve the problems. The risk is that you land in other forms of sub-optimisation or go wrong when you fail to solve the deficiencies at all. Let's just be content with this being a part of it. Then we understand that we are negotiating on the substance and may not be behind everything, but in these particular parts we have not signalled that we have been great opponents either. It disappoints me a little. If we do not see the energy policy implications of the taxes that have been imposed on cogeneration, it will be difficult to get out of this.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-247	Madam President, I would like In a way, I can understand the question of the Swedish Democrats. Of course, when you're involved in a collaboration, you're behind a whole. Then this does not mean that you yourself have had inputs that support every part of that whole. That's how cooperation works. This product is about monitoring and analysing the measures taken by the actors involved. Of course, one can always discuss who is involved or not. I believe that, regardless of the tax system we have, it is absolutely necessary to examine how different actors can act in order to avoid such a situation arising. Then there is a legitimate discussion, as I understand it, about, for example, certain elements of the tax system, about research policy, about education policy or about other aspects of policy that also affect the possibility of good capacity. I think that the discussion that we are having here and now should be integrated into all kinds of debates and discussions, because this is such a big and social problem that we need to cave into it in a lot of different policy areas. In this particular product I think it is positive that one chooses to have a focus, but that does not mean that one should not analyse the kind of consequences that the Member Mattias Bäckström Johansson describes, for example the tax system. There is a broad discussion on how it affects future innovations, for example. It may be possible to use cogeneration in a climate-smart way, for example, if you have the right innovations and the right technologies in place. But this is another discussion that should also be taken.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-251	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal and taking the opportunity to welcome Joar Forssell to the committee and the energy debate. How much fun we'll have together in the future! Today we are going to debate the functioning of the electricity grids. To begin with, I will say that we have a very safe and stable electrical system in Sweden, probably one of the most stable in the world. I think it is good to have said that so that people do not get it wrong and misunderstand the debate. What the debate is about is in much the purely local perspective: h from it looks like in our metropolitan regions and how the network works right there. This has to do with specific challenges in specific situations. The background is that urbanisation, increased entrepreneurship, more people and increased electrification have simply contributed to the congestion of electricity networks at local level. It was precisely this that was the government's focus when a joint initiative was taken about a year ago. The initiative has dealt with a number of issues. The first is to increase investment in the networks together with the network companies. This is something that is important not least in the longer term, but we need to get investment started now. What this House has not debated sufficiently is flexibility, increasing the amount of flexible resources in the system, so that peaks and valleys can be dealt with. It is also a question of maintaining and securing local electricity production. For some speakers, it has sounded like it has been shut down for good during this time. That's not true. What happened was that the government made an excellent leap of steam against fossil power production. It is absurd that in 2019 we should retain coal power and fossil gas in our heating and electricity system. The government made a clever crypto maneuver. A tax was introduced, or rather, if you are to be concrete and specific, a fossil subsidy was phased out. Then this initiative was taken, which meant that we secured local production and also ensured that it was renewable. This that it would be renewable was something that the Green Party was pushing in, which I am very proud of. Finally, the authorities were asked to examine the roles and further measures of stakeholders. That is what is now to be followed up and analysed. I'm just gonna do a zoom-out before I round it off. Nevertheless, I would like to mention something about the challenges of the summer – for this was a year ago. We have also had challenges during the summer. I'd like to mention that. I want to explain the situation, because there are many misunderstandings. There are those who really believe that Sweden suffers from a shortage of electricity, i.e. that we suffer from a shortage of electricity at national level. It's basically as far from the truth as you can get. The challenge of summer was really due to three factors, or two main ones. The first was that nuclear power did not deliver. It was perhaps the most important factor in our being in an emergency this summer. Even a lot of the cogeneration was down. One reason why these power strokes did not deliver was that it was a low electricity price. We had a very large production from mainly water and wind throughout the spring. The second reason concerns purely safety aspects of nuclear power. They had to shut down reactors because they were simply dangerous. Emergency measures had to be implemented in the nuclear power plants themselves. The second major factor was that at the same time there were large maintenance projects in the network. This led us to a situation where, to a large extent, there was no electricity in southern Sweden. It had additional complications, and it was about the tension in the net. When you do not have local electricity generation, you lose part of the voltage required for electricity to be transferred from northern Sweden to southern Sweden. That's what the situation was like. It is very important that people grasp it: that it is about nuclear power and the maintenance of the networks. Had we had authorities who would have been better at forecasting and predicting this, we would have been able to avoid getting into that situation. If Swedish power networks had been forward-looking, installed voltage stabilizers and worked more with synthetic curvature in wind turbines and with different types of rotating energy mass in the system, we would not have had to end up in this situation. It's a lesson to learn, and we'll do that in the future. As far as local production, networks, flexibility and storage are concerned, things are now happening. The technology is developing very fast, and when we get these parts in place we will be much easier to deal with local capacity shortages and switch to 100% renewable electricity production. I'm sorry I oversold my speaking time.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-265	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you a little bit about Lorentz Tovatt's problem description. Urbanisation is described as one of the major problems when it comes to our lack of impact in Skåne. Then I want answers to what is in that particular thing that would have made it this way. When you switch to an increased share of wind power, you miss the base production. In fact, only water and nuclear power today can provide basic production and can be regulated so that we can have it when we actually need it. We have a society where we don't do what they did in Skåne: moths when it blows. We want to work daytime. We want our customers in Germany, for example, to get their goods on time. We want to continue to have a high standard of living. It is also our high standard of living that enables us to electrify and that we can switch to a fossil-free society. Madam President, I would like I think that Lorentz Tovatt gets away very cheaply by just blaming the urbanisation and saying that the mischmasch et in the system depends on it. We exchange basic energy for intermittent energy, and then it has consequences. No one would be happier than me, Madam President, if we were to have battery functions or any other storage function that would allow us to switch on and off wind power, but we are not there. I would like an answer to the question: how can one blame urbanisation and an increased need and not the fact that we have changed energy systems?
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the question! Lotta Olsson is surely part of a party that has been involved in drafting this report, and it points out that urbanisation is one of the reasons why we have ended up in this situation. I think Lotta Olsson will have to ask herself why we have ended up there. Then it's basic power. What's base power? What's adjustable? Nuclear power is not adjustable. There is a misunderstanding in the debate. The hydroelectric power is adjustable. It can be turned off and turned on. You can regulate it up and regulate it down per minute. That's how hydropower works. This is why it is an incredibly important resource in the Swedish electricity system. Nuclear power isn't. It costs a lot to turn off and turn on the nuclear power. I think that nuclear power during this summer proved with all due clarity that it is not to be trusted. They had planned long revisions because it was simply not profitable to operate the reactors. There were also several reactors down because of direct security threats. Nuclear power is therefore not adjustable. In today's system, nuclear power is not something you could even call basic power. Nuclear power simply has a lot of problems that make it not, and you cannot turn it off and turn it on. I noticed that Lotta Olsson came with the oil ghost. When Lotta Olsson was in charge of the country, we imported much more fossils from other countries. Thanks to the fact that we have made sure that there is now an expansion of wind power, we are importing much, much less fossils from other countries.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-276	Madam President, I would like Well, at least we can agree on one thing. Neither Lorentz Tovatt nor I want more fossil energy. But urbanisation means that we need more regulated energy, and then there is still nothing to replace nuclear power. We do not have battery functions that allow us to use wind power entirely. And as far as hydropower is concerned, we have been clear in this debate. It is located in the north, and it is not that Skåne's industries will get it. In addition, we plan to convert some of our heavy industry into fossil-free, and that will require even more planned energy. I understand Lorentz Tovatt's good intention to switch to completely renewable, but I don't see how we're going to get it done. Or have the battery functions gone much further than I know? It is also exciting, Madam President, that Lorentz Tovatt himself is problematizing this – when nuclear power stations have to be re-installed and maintained during the summer, we have problems. Yes, we will have even more problems on the day they do not exist if we cannot find a good substitute. It is also not easy to make us more flexible. It doesn't matter much if Lorentz Tovatt and I wash at night. It has a very small effect. It is the big, heavy industries and the new industry, which computer halls and so on, that will require a lot. We want these jobs, and we want the welfare society. That is why I am not quite satisfied with this. I do not really think that the argument is valid.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-280	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the line change, Lotta Olsson! Lotta Olsson says that hopefully we agree that we do not want more fossil energy. It really pains me to have to say that we do not agree on that. Lotta Olsson has a tax policy that involves subsidising fossil energy. Lotta Olsson represents a party that last year took a clear battle to maintain the subsidy to coal power plants in Sweden. It is the tax battle, of all the tax battles, that Lotta Olsson's party took. The same is true of the energy tax policy used in transport. Lotta Olsson represents the party that is fighting to reduce the carbon tax by SEK 7 billion. Lotta Olsson's party wants more fossil energy in the system, and it pains me. I would have liked Moderates and environmentalists to be united that we should phase out fossil fuels. We simply are not – unfortunately. Lotta Olsson is asking about alternatives to nuclear power. I mentioned that quite a lot in my speech. The sea wind can get started in southern Sweden and can contribute with voltage in the network, local production and a more continuous electricity generation compared to land-based wind. It is about hydrogen, batteries, cogeneration, flexibility and electric cars that work smartly in the system. Industries can certainly become more flexible. They can be used more when it comes to, for example, residual heat and the like. You can produce electricity based on your own processes and so on. This works as a good synergy with hydrogen. The industry of the future will have no problems at all to stay in a 100% renewable electricity system. Of course, it will take time, and we have a lot to do on the way there. But it's quite possible.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-284	Madam President, I would like There has just been a change of line between Lorentz Tovatt and Lotta Olsson. The Moderates do not want to cross Sweden. We want to see a future, which is why we cannot just pull the carpet away without something to replace it with. For Höganäs AB, Höganäs Municipality, Pågen, Polykemi, Lindab, Ystad Municipality, Malmö, Ängelholm, Båstad and Örkelljunga, yes, for all municipalities and companies in Skåne and for us in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it is important to get an analysis of the situation picture for the future. It requires looking at what is right and what needs to be done forward. The Scanian companies employ more than 380 000 people together. The more there are, the better for the welfare. Every new employee contributes taxes, and services are provided in both preschool and health care. Skåne is a region with higher unemployment than the rest of the country, and the number of unemployed is increasing sharply as a result of the Corona crisis. At the same time as Region Skåne, together with the Skåne municipalities, is struggling for more people to have a job to go to, the Swedish Growth Agency states in a report that up to 19 000 fewer people can be employed in Skåne in 2040 as a consequence of the electricity shortage and the electricity capacity shortage. This is the cloon on the urgent issue that is being debated today about electricity supply in southern Sweden and the rest of the country. The Government's mission is to produce a data base with an analysis. They warned from Malmö, Uppsala and Borås. What happens if you warn again and if it blows up in Malmö in some other place? Then it's a matter of doing the right things and being prepared. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the measures under discussion should be put in place. Measures must be taken to ensure electricity capacity in southern Sweden, Skåne and the rest of the country. These analyses really need to be carried out. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal, which gives us a proper analysis of what has happened, how it has been handled and where we are going in the future.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-293	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the report. The electricity certification system is a support system designed to stimulate the so-called renewables. Early after the introduction of the system in 2003, there were a number of minor, but positive, base power effects resulting from the certificates obtained. This involved upgrading hydroelectric power stations, the construction of cogeneration plants and supplementing district heating systems with a turbine for power generation. Of the electricity certificates issued in 2004, more than 90 per cent went to power generation that was planned and therefore not dependent on weather conditions. In recent years, however, more has gone on to deal exclusively with subsidies for weather-dependent power generation, mainly wind power. It is a level that has gradually increased. Since 2012, 75 per cent of the electricity input has come from wind power in the system. In 2019 wind power accounted for 83 per cent of new production. Energy policy has a key role to play in the development of society and in reducing fossil dependence. But electricity certificates are another example of targeted subsidies that are poor policies for seriously reducing greenhouse gas emissions, especially since Sweden already has a climate-smart, emission-free and secure electricity supply at competitive prices. This is a situation that must, as far as possible, be maintained over time. The electricity certification system has already cost electricity consumers tens of billions of subsidies paid in excess of the electricity price and for almost two decades has not led to a reduction in the fossil share either. In fact, the fossil share is as high today as it was at the time of its introduction. Instead, the money has been spent on effectively replacing fossil-free power production with renewables – with reduced margins and security of supply as a bonus. The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly expressed their views on the uncritical view of renewable and weather-dependent electricity production that permeates much of the energy policy stance of the government. The electricity certification system has helped to distort competition in the electricity market in favour of this weather-dependent power generation which has not necessarily been able to provide power at the peak of demand. As a consequence of this approach, we have repeatedly sought support in this House for proposals to phase out both the electricity certification system and other financial subsidies, which in various forms are aimed exclusively at weather-dependent power generation. We are therefore basically in favour of the proposal that the electricity certification system should now be phased out prematurely. However, the bill now presented in the bill, according to the Government's own assessment, will entail a redistribution of costs from Swedish electricity consumers to producers within the electricity certification system. These assumptions can be found in the Government's own impact assessment, an analysis that has been judged by, for example, the Agency's Growth Analysis. They say that the risk is that the cost to electricity consumers will be greatly underestimated. We see a significant risk that the substandard impact assessment could hide the fact that the chosen model for the shutdown of the electricity certification system is both unnecessarily and unjustifiably expensive for electricity consumers. We therefore believe that the electricity certification system must be dismantled in a responsible manner and in a way that is cost-effective for electricity consumers.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-302	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Electric Certificates – Stopping Rule and Control Station 2019. First of all, I would like to point out that the electricity certification system has served us well, which I also mentioned in my previous speech. This is one of the reasons why we have low electricity prices and have been able to phase in renewable electricity production in Sweden. Sweden should be a forerunner in the transition to a renewable energy system, but we think it is good that the government is now taking the initiative to end the system of electricity certificates. At the same time, it is our view that the proposal in the proposal risks being blurry. We therefore recommend that the proposal be supplemented by a so-called "end-of-end" option. Such a halt would provide certainty for producers and would provide an opportunity to secure the market and thus also production.
i-SWgTHckNzEV4wH7euJ5SrV	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you to accept reservation 4 in paragraph 2.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-304	Madam President, I would like In the transition to a system where our electricity is produced in a climate-smart and fossil-free manner, it is reasonable for us to have policy instruments that steer towards an energy mix, new technologies, infrastructure and innovation that drive development. We help in immature markets and when technology is not fully in place with support systems that allow companies and innovators to actually deliver what climate change requires. The issue we are now debating is that the electricity certification system has been fundamentally good to have in place. I share the view of the Left Party on this point. As a result, wind power has expanded considerably, and this has been positive. It has been good to have a greater share of renewables in our system as well. It needs to be part of our energy mix, and that's no wonder. But now wind power can stand on its own feet and is profitable on its own, and it no longer needs subsidies. We have said from the outset that the system will be phased out when the technology for which the instruments have been in existence has come so far as to be profitable. Technology development has been faster and access to capital on the market has been greater than initially thought. Therefore, the time when electricity production is profitable has come earlier, and the Swedish Energy Agency has said that aid is no longer needed. I believe that the Left Party also spoke of the fact that there are those on the market who have done wrong analyses of the future and acted on a wrong view of how quickly technology development should take place. It has gone faster than we thought, and the availability of capital has been higher than we originally thought. There are those who have made investments and planned to make investments in the belief that the system will remain forever, although we have said that it will go away when the system is no longer needed. Madam President, I would like We politicians should not subsidise things that the market can solve for itself, and we must stick to the fact that when a system expires, it should not be retained either. Otherwise, it sends strange signals to the market to make investments and then trust that you will always receive subsidies, even though they are no longer needed. Since the market is profitable without subsidies, and the price of the certificates goes towards zero, it is time to close the system. That is a good thing, and we support the proposal. When the system no longer gives anything, it just means huge administrative costs without us getting something for it. Now that we are dismantling the system earlier than it was originally said, it does not necessarily mean that the subsidies come earlier than intended, but that is what is being proposed. And that is what we are opposed to, that is to compress the quota curve. This means that prices are pushed up on electricity certificates, and this means a redistribution from customers, electricity users, to already profitable production. It is not reasonable for us from the political side now to tell electricity customers that they will get higher prices and that that money will go to production that is already profitable. It is sad that no more parties have reacted to this. It is a system that is expensive to administer and also involves a redistribution from ordinary people who want to buy electricity to often large companies that make huge profits from things that are already profitable. I have no problem with a large company making profits, but I have problems with the company doing so by means of subsidies. Madam President, I would like Then there is the objection that there is an agreement with Norway. It is true that there is an agreement with Norway, but we have already shown that the agreement can be negotiated. It has happened; we have renegotiated. You can renegotiate a deal. Norway's citizens, voters and electricity users are also affected by change in the same way. They will also see higher prices, and there is nothing to suggest that the Norwegians are less upset than we are about this. Nor do they want higher prices for their electricity users. There is nothing to suggest that it would not be possible to renegotiate with Norway. That is why this argument is somewhat devoid of reality. In the past, it has been a hypothetical issue that electricity prices should be negative, but now it is not. Now this has happened a number of times, and it will probably happen more times. It is again unreasonable to distribute subsidies when prices are negative. Madam President, I would like For the time winning at the vote, I only agree to reservation 2, but of course we support all our reservations.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-316	Madam President, I would like We are now debating NU6, Electrical Certificates – Stopping Rule and Control Station 2019. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision to approve the proposal, and I would urge that all reservations be rejected. The electricity certification system was introduced in 2003, and it is a market-based support system that will increase the production of renewable electricity in a cost-effective way. Since 2012, Sweden and Norway have a common electricity certificate market. Madam President, I would like The development of renewable electricity generation has exceeded all expectations. We Social Democrats – we are a climate party – are very pleased with the developments. Conditions have changed in recent years. In May 2019, the target level passed 28.4 terawatt hours of new renewable electricity generation by 2020. Until the end of 2021, this production volume is estimated to more than double. This means that our high expectations will be met by far, and we can therefore complete the electricity certification system ten years earlier than planned. The system is a major success, and this means that renewable production will soon operate on a market-based basis, which is positive for both consumers and the energy industry. In addition, we can save money by shortening the administrative burden, which a support system actually entails. I think we should be proud of how much new renewable electricity generation the system has pushed forward. Madam President, I would like The joint goal of Norway within the electricity certification system of 46.4 terawatt hours of new renewable electricity generation by 2030 is thus expected to be achieved in the near future. The development has meant that the electricity certification system has played its role as a driving force for the rollout and can therefore be phased out. Therefore, the proposal is now to approve the agreement between the governments of Sweden and Norway amending the agreement on a common market in electricity certificates. This means, among other things, that the electricity certification system is completed in 2035 and that installations, production increases and certain conversions carried out or put into operation after the end of 2021 are not awarded electricity certificates. In doing so, the current cancellation obligation, the so-called quota curve, needs to be compressed and demand for certificates of electricity needs to be brought forward. The amendment of the contract is necessary, inter alia, for the completion of the electricity certification system until 2035. The overall assessment of the impact of the proposed cut-off date and a compressed quota curve is that this will have no or possibly marginal impact on the price of electricity certificates.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-324	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the task of the Energy Market Inspectorate to analyse the economic conditions for owners of production facilities that have invested early in the electricity certification system. The analysis shall take into account the allocation of electricity certificates, and the Energy Market Inspectorate shall then analyse whether and in what way there is a need for additional financial support to those production facilities for an appropriate period of time. Any proposals for changes to the regulatory framework should also be made which, taken together, do not lead to a deterioration compared to the current situation of the production facilities concerned. The assignment shall be presented to the Government Office no later than 31 March 2021. As I have said, we Social Democrats are a climate party. We are very pleased with this development, which allows us to complete the electricity certification system ten years earlier than planned.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-326	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to say that it is good that the electricity certification system is now being phased out and that it can happen prematurely compared to what has been set up since before. On the other hand, this is a journey that has been marked by twitchiness since the Social Democrats took office in 2014. The system has been changed and expanded on several occasions. There have been two occasions to raise the level of ambition. It has also been in and adjusted in relation to the obligations – it moved them from law to regulation so that the government could tie this closer and make adjustments depending on supply and demand. The government has also, as has been mentioned here before, found itself in the situation of granting subsidies even when there are negative electricity prices. Now that we intend to close the system prematurely, we are making a major adjustment to the supply and to the certificates of electricity. However, demand is not reduced accordingly, but consumers are forced to buy electricity certificates. When policies have such a high presence and this is increasingly linked, it affects the conditions for whether it can be called a market-based support system. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask why the Social Democrats do not believe that this should hurt as a market-based support system and why we should subsidise already profitable power production.
i-VkjZ8yEUc3EXrH51SxiNmk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the questions! I understand that the Swedish Democrats and Mattias Bäckström have been deeply critical of the electricity certification system for many years. It was introduced in 2003 and has survived many governments. I note that there is a large majority in the Swedish Parliament that says that we need to promote and support technologies in the energy sector that are not mature for market foundations. This has been done by the electricity certification system. The challenge now is that things have gone so well. One could say, Mattias we can finish this earlier. What, then, is the price that consumers have paid for this? If you put it all together over the years, you can of course see that it is about billions. But if you look a little in the rearview mirror you can say that the price for the individual holder of an apartment that spends about 1,500 kilowatts per year during the period 2012– 2019 was 45 SEK. Of course, for homeowners it is higher; it may be about $600. Yes – the electricity certification system has cost consumers money, but we have also received a lot of renewable production in the system. Mattias Bäckström should see that it is good, because what would the system look like if we had not had the volumes we have in the system today?
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-334	Madam President, I would like I hear the message from the Social Democrats that the people can afford to pay their expensive electricity bills. It has to be borne in mind that tens of billions have been paid for a very long time, and this will continue to cost a great deal. The fossil share is not lower today than when the electricity certification system was introduced. It is not that we have made any contribution to the climate or to the environment. We have forced fossil-free power generation for the benefit of renewables, for no benefit at all to the climate. Now that we are landing in ensuring that this system is phased out, we are making it unnecessarily expensive for electricity consumers. It was intended as a market-based support system, but when market forces operate and ensure that prices are low, political action is taken between supply and demand to ensure that it becomes unnecessarily expensive for electricity consumers, rather than that it aches out in the way it was intended. The question, Madam President, is still why the Social Democrats want to make it unnecessarily expensive for electricity consumers to phase out the electricity certification system.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-337	Madam President, I would like A market-based system also sets the price. If we produce much more renewable electricity, the prices of the certificates of electricity will be much lower – it should still be so, based on supply and demand, right? The prices of the electricity certificates are likely to be very low. It is, of course, difficult to predict the future prices of electricity certificates, but there is much evidence that the prices of electricity certificates will be low in the long term. Some companies that have invested early in, for example, renewable energy in wind have great challenges with this, for it was part of their business model to have some form of support. This is of course challenging, but the fact that Mattias Bäckström claims that we are not valiant of the renewable power of the energy system makes me a little surprised. The alternative, which Mattias Bäckström often talks about, is nuclear power. We all know that the kilowatt price of new nuclear power is on a completely different level. I do not agree with Mattias Bäckström. This is a system that has gone very well. Now we are phasing this out in orderly and proper forms. The electricity certificates cost everyone something, but I still think it is a reasonable price based on what we have received.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-340	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the honourable Member for his speech and stating that it is good that this system has worked as well as it has actually done. We have had investment faster and development faster than we thought, and we have actually had a change that we wanted on the ground. It has worked so well that the system is now abolishing itself. It is amazing that prices have gone down as planned and that production has gone up as planned. However, Madam President, when I listen to the Social Democrats, I wonder whether Mr Engström agrees with the opinion of the Energy Agency that subsidies are no longer needed in this way. Do the Social Democrats and Patrik Engström share the assessment made by the Swedish Energy Agency that subsidies are no longer needed? Madam President, I would like If Patrik Engström shares this assessment, I wonder why it is so important to ensure that electricity customers continue to subsidise energy production that is already profitable in itself. Why is that so important? Then Patrik will perhaps say that it is about so little money. Yes, if we look at the development you have made yourself, Patrik Engström – 0.1 øre per kilowatt hour, or 5% – we see that it is about 663 million. You might think that's a bit if you knock it out on each one, but it's a pretty big money going to these companies and this production, which is already profitable in itself. Madam President, I would like Does Patrik Engström and the Social Democrats believe that the Swedish Energy Agency's assessment – that this production does not need subsidies – is correct or not correct?
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-344	Madam President, I would like New power production naturally produces energy based on different conditions, Joar Forssell. For example, if a wind turbine is built today, the cost of production is in a way. When wind power was built five years ago, when technology development was less advanced, the economy looked different. I think we need to be honest and have that with us. Today, subsidies are not needed for new wind power, but we cannot ignore all companies that have believed in the possibility of changing and doing so in a good way. We can't just leave them in the lurch. That's why this investigation is initiated with the Energy Market Inspectorate, to review this. Is there anything among those who have made previous investments that we need to take with us into the future and think about? Whatever the case, it is nothing new for 2020 that it is in a way now, but we have had wind turbines for 10, 15 or 20 years that also in some way need to exist in the future.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-346	Madam President, I would like I think that there are two mere falsaries in the reasoning of the Social Democrats, and I think there is a question of principle that cannot be answered. The question of principle, Madam President, is whether it is right that ordinary people who pay for their electricity should pay perhaps 663 million bucks for production that the Energy Agency says does not need subsidies. Is it right to do that redistribution? For me, this is a matter of principle, and I think it is wrong. It would have been necessary in the beginning, when we needed to get the system up and running. Now it is in place and the subsidies are not needed. It is a matter of principle, and I find it tragic that the Social Democrats are ducking for it. You cannot let electricity customers pay this much money to production that is still profitable. Then there are two falsaries. One is that, in their speech earlier, the Social Democrats returned to this issue with Norway – that this is necessary to dismantle the system, because we have an agreement with Norway. This is about the fact that we have renegotiated an agreement with Norway. The Norwegians agree to renegotiate things. It is clear that even Norwegian electricity users, who will also have to pay more for profitable production, want to see that the quota curve is not compressed. Why would it be impossible to negotiate with Norway? It seems completely absurd. Madam President, I would like The last point I would like to make, that is, the second false, is the idea that it was part of the business model and that we cannot come and change it afterwards. They knew, and we said from the beginning, that the system will be phased out. It's going to go towards zero, and you can't expect to get subsidies from the system-- because it's going to work. Then they made false calculations of how quickly technology development would go and of how many others would like to invest money. But we politicians cannot take responsibility for the fact that market players make bad business assessments! We can take responsibility for keeping our word, namely that the system should be phased out.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate, Mr Joar. If Sweden has a support system together with Norway until 2045 and then it closes ten years earlier, it will have consequences not only politically but also for the market. We have landed in this agreement with Norway, and I intend to stand by it. I don't think it's that strange. When it comes to whether consumers have to pay too much in Norway or Sweden: Yes, if we have a market-based system where there is a large oversupply of electricity certificates – that's why we're closing – the price should be zero, Joar. I think the price will be zero if we have 20-30% more renewable electricity production in the system. So for me the question becomes quite strange. The electricity certificates have certainly cost money, as Mr Joar said, but there is also an upside: we have received a lot of renewable energy in the system. Well, that's got to be good, isn't it? The alternative is that there had been no new energy in the system. What was the energy system like then? I don't even want to think about it.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-353	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the stopping rules for electricity certificates. The Moderates have chosen to support this bill. The transition to a fossil-free energy system is one of the predestined issues of our time. Here, wind power as a renewable, but not yet storageable, energy source is an important piece of the puzzle. Wind power also accounts for more than 80% of the renewable energy expansion that has taken place over the years since the electricity certificates were established. Wind power expansion in Sweden has developed beyond expectations. When the electricity certificates were introduced in 2003 to promote the deployment of renewable energy sources – a system that replaced most of the operating and investment aid that existed earlier – it was thought that this development would take longer than it actually did. Madam President, I would like This is also why it is now time to close the store with electricity certificates, ten years earlier than originally planned. This proposal proposes to close the system in 2035 instead of 2045. Furthermore, no new certificates will be granted after the end of December next year. That's good. The system has never been intended to be a support system for individual forms of energy, but it was a support system for a development which is now in place. The goal of wind energy is now to reach 46.4 terawa t hours with Norway by 2030, which we are expected to achieve. Madam President, I would like The common strategy for electricity certificates with Norway is good. It provides clear guidelines on what applies to producers, investors and the market. In addition, trade in electricity between our countries has increased, making common ground rules important. It is precisely predictability that has been called for, even at the closure of the system ten years in advance. One can argue that the system is now being compressed and that it is being made too attractive during the 15 years that it remains. A more cheap system these years could mean that there were actually resources available for other investments. At the same time, a system that is accepted by both Norway and Sweden is important, and new establishments in the system are only allowed until the end of next year. It may also be good to have with you that the time of establishment to get a work in place is long and that part of the costs exist even if the work is not in place. It can also be argued that no certificates would be paid when electricity prices are negative, but this is difficult to include for the promotion purpose. Besides, it's very complicated. But, of course, a support system for overproduction is not something we from moderate quarters are in any way in favour of. Madam President, I would like We know that wind power has the weakness that it produces when it blows and not when society needs more energy. That imbalance remains to be resolved. The wind power industry in particular, but also energy policy, has a challenge to make use of energy in other ways on the day when wind power is overproduced and thus creates negative electricity prices. It is a waste of resources to tear on wind turbines when the energy is not needed without creating a market for that electrical energy. This is not how we create renewable, green and climate-smart energy systems. Perhaps the surplus energy of wind power can now be used for other purposes. It is not a healthy market to produce energy at certain times when no one wants it, while at the same time paying off certificates of electricity. We believe that this is nevertheless a relevant way to close the store to the electricity certificates.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-362	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, the electricity certificates have been a matter of concern. We have been the driving force in both introducing and developing the electricity certification system. And now we've pushed to shut down the system prematurely. It may sound strange, of course, but it is simply because the electricity certification system has succeeded so well in producing renewable energy that the system is no longer needed. The electricity certification system has been crucial to bring about an increased share of renewable electricity in our energy mix at a low cost to electricity consumers. The system has now played its part. And we do not believe that the aid should be granted to technologies that can stand on their own feet on the market, because what has been the great advantage of the electricity certification system is that it is market-based. This means that the electricity certification system is designed in such a way that it is the most cost-effective energy production that is built first. We have now received so much renewable electricity and so strong price pressure and technology development that certificates of electricity are no longer needed. That is very positive. The expansion of renewable electricity generation has, largely thanks to the electricity certificates, gone significantly faster than anticipated when the electricity certification system was last extended. The Swedish Energy Agency's report Monitoring station for the electricity certification system 2019 shows that the current expansion of renewable electricity consists, for the most part, of approximately 82 per cent, of wind power. What the electricity certification system has done is that for almost two decades and under different political majorities it has served as an important driver for the accelerating development of renewable electricity production that we have seen in Sweden. Among other things, the system has stimulated the expansion of wind power over the last decade. During the first year of wind power expansion, the support from the electricity certificates provided a solid economic basis for technology development, design experience and exploitation of economies of scale, which now means that wind power booms, among other things, can be expected to continue on their own economic merits. Madam President, I would like Although the electricity certification system has played a major role in the expansion of renewable electricity production in Sweden, there is no reason to keep a system that no longer plays a role in the expansion. It can be said that for almost 20 years the state and capital have gone hand in hand on this issue. But as we know, one should not hold hands nowadays, so even in this way it feels good to close this system. That is why we, the Center Party, are in favour of the proposal. However, we should be honest and say that there are parts of the bill that could have been better. The proposed compressed quota curve is fundamentally positive in the light of the early achievement of the target. On the other hand, we in the Center Party believe that quotas should have been allocated earlier in the period and a smaller share at the end. It would have reduced the risk of insufficient compensation to existing producers at the beginning of the period and reduced the risk of oversized compensation to new plants at the end of the period, which is now a real risk. Madam President, I would like To help the pioneers who were involved in developing the market into what it is today, we are now looking beyond the limit of when the online fee will start to be paid. There are hundreds of wind turbines that can actually produce more but are shut down because the regulations benefit them not to produce fully. There are assessors who say that we can get up to half a terawatt hour if the wind turbines that already exist are fully producing. It is a waste of resources that corresponds to the entire annual use of a small Swedish city that these wind turbines are decommissioned. There's more to do here. We would also have liked to see changes that ensured that the principle of the energy agreement to close the electricity certification system in balance had been achieved, but we also note there that we have not reached a full goal. Overall, one can say that the electricity certification system is a success story. We have received large amounts of new energy at very low prices. In recent years, Sweco estimates that the price of electricity has been pushed down more than the cost of the certificates. It has thus been a pure profit business for both households and industry. But, as I said, it is time to move on and time for the renewable electricity market to stand on its own feet. The fact that we have managed to get to a situation where it is possible to close such a good system is in itself an amazing thing.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-373	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that a secure and secure energy supply is an important engine in our economy and crucial to our well-being. Swedish companies and consumers should be able to rely on a stable and reliable electricity supply. Long-term rules of the game and stable conditions are of great importance for Swedish jobs and Swedish competitiveness. Today, we are debating the Government's proposal Electric Certificate – stop regulation and control station 2019. The legislative proposal entails, among other things, the termination of the electricity certification system in 2035 and the non-allocation of installations, permanent increases in production and certain conversions carried out or put into service after the end of 2021, i.e. the closure of the system ten years early. At the same time, the Riksdag is to approve the agreement that has been reached between the two Swedish and Norwegian governments regarding precisely this amendment of the agreement, where we have a common market for electricity certificates. Madam President, I would like The electricity certification system is a market-based support system that will increase the production of renewable electricity in a cost-effective way. The system has been in place in Sweden since 2003, and the initial objective was to increase the production of renewable electricity by 10 terawatt hours by 2010. The agreement has been extended. By 2017, Sweden signed a renewed agreement with Norway with the aim of extending the electricity certificates to 2030 by the end year 2045 and then adding 18 terawatt hours. Now it looks like the target will be achieved well in advance. The expansion of renewable electricity generation has gone significantly faster than anticipated when the electricity certification system was last extended and the new target year was decided. The Swedish Energy Agency's report Monitoring station for the electricity certification system 2019 shows that the current expansion of renewable electricity consists mainly of wind power. Electricity certificates have largely played out their real role, and we Christian Democrats have stated earlier in the debate that we believe that a controlled closure of the system should take place. We call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-378	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the proposal for a decision. I'm not going to be long now but I'm going to say something about the electricity certification system, which has actually been a success. The expansion of wind power is now taking place at a pace that we have not seen anywhere else in the world in terms of new electricity generation. It is at about the same pace as the expansion of nuclear power in the 1980s. It is very exciting and a very fast expansion rate. In three years we will double the amount of wind in the system. Then wind power will account for one third of Sweden's total electricity production, which is incredible. Furthermore, the new power generation has actually contributed to lower prices for customers. Sometimes we hear debaters who are sceptical about subsidising a certain power stroke via the electricity bill. But it should be remembered that new production ultimately contributes to reduced costs for customers. Now we can see that the wind is on its own feet, which is why we do not need this system anymore. The Green Party would have liked to see a closure in as great a balance as possible, as it says. There have been some investments where it has been expected that the system will close just in balance. It is something that has been communicated from public actors. We have done our utmost to ensure that it would be so but not reached all the way. This depends, among other things, on the agreement Sweden has with Norway. However, this means the closure of the system ten years earlier, 2035. It also means a stop date for new power generation by 31 December 2021, and it means a compressed quota curve to get prices up. This is as far as we have got. This does not mean that we will manage to keep prices up enough to make it profitable for everyone who has invested early, but it will at least contribute to some extent. The system has served us well but is no longer needed because the technology is mature and courageous.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-386	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the government's letter on collaborative programmes and strategic innovation programmes. It is a response to the report drawn up by the Swedish National Audit Office on the state's efforts in the collaborative programmes and strategic innovation programmes. The programme forms are designed to meet societal challenges and to strengthen Sweden's innovation capacity and competitiveness. This should be done in the long term and with in-depth collaboration between universities, research institutes, industry and the public sector. The authorities involved are Formas, who is responsible for the Swedish Research Council for the Environment, Areella Industries and Society Building, the Swedish Energy Agency and Vinnova, the Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems. In its review of the strategic innovation programmes, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that efficiency has been created in several cases by the Government and the authorities. However, it is also said that there are shortcomings and ambiguities in the missions to the relevant authorities. The Swedish National Audit Office says about the cooperation programmes that the government has not created conditions for efficiency. It is proposed that the government should consider an evaluation of implemented cooperation programmes. To the Government, the Swedish National Audit Office also says that for future innovation efforts, it should be ensured that assignments are given with timeframes that allow for preparation and planning. This is stated by the government to be in agreement with the Swedish National Audit Office. The Government responds to recommendations and observations from the Swedish National Audit Office, including that no account has been taken of those parts of the collaboration programmes that deal with purpose and intervention logic. The government claims to want to review regulatory letters and instructions to the authorities in order to provide clarity in the mandates of the strategic innovation programmes. That is a good thing, but we would like to reinforce it. Now that the mission from the government to the strategic innovation programmes aims to strengthen Sweden's innovation capacity and competitiveness and contribute to meeting global societal challenges in collaboration between universities, industry and the public sector, it is a lot about the design of the important regulatory letters and follow-up. This must be properly taken into account, as is mentioned in our exercise. In fact, there is a dual message in the regulatory letters to the relevant authorities about how the authorities should choose programmes. Formulations in current research proposals and regulatory letters are not linked, and this risks sending a double signal in terms of the scope of the programme. There are significant uncertainties in the regulatory letters to each authority regarding the interaction between authorities, the composition of the programme portfolio and the overall form of the programme. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that there are shortcomings in how the assignments are formulated. For example, the limits on the responsibility of the authorities are unclear. There is a lack of continuous documentation of organisational and responsibility-sharing considerations within the programmes. It makes it difficult for the authorities to get an overview of the programmes. Moreover, the organisational memory of the strategic innovation programmes is at risk. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, these deficiencies can be largely attributed to the regulatory letters issued by the Government to the responsible authorities. The Government needs to ensure that these deficiencies are remedied in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations in the report. Clarifications shall cover the individual and joint responsibility of the authorities for the overall form of the programme, the interaction between them and the prioritisation of innovation areas. There is no coherent evaluation and evaluation process linked to either the form of the programme or the individual programmes. The views of the participating members have been compiled, but no further evaluation has been carried out. The collaborative programmes have at their table to coordinate innovation efforts between, for example, industry, academia, civil society and public actors. The programmes are based on identified focus areas identified. This must have an impact. The Swedish National Audit Office sees shortcomings in evaluation, which impairs the possibilities for efficiency in the programme form. It also makes it difficult to develop the programmes. The possibilities for reporting back to Parliament that is of good quality are also deteriorating. This is what we want the Government to take into account as well as the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that implemented cooperation programmes should be evaluated and monitored, which also includes the programmes announced in July 2019. Madam President, I would like That is why I am in favour of reservation l.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-404	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Time and again, in this House, both Members and Ministers of State, I have highlighted the need for us to ensure, to a greater extent than we do today, that public funds are used sparingly and efficiently, that allocation is justified and that, firstly, the benefits and results can be measured and, secondly, that they are desirable. When we pour public money into the market, with the risk of suffocating and inhibiting otherwise viable and competitive companies, we must be able to justify our actions politically. It is less important whether it is venture capital, innovation initiatives or part-financing of EU projects. We must ensure that they generate a desired result that exceeds the alternative cost of, for example, tax reductions. Apparently, Madam President, they rarely do so at present. On the contrary. In our reservation, we mention a number of studies that highlight shortcomings in the effectiveness of public support. Not infrequently has it been found that the subsidies at all generated nothing more than a temporary sugar injection in the companies that partake of them. Against this background, I and the Swedish Democrats welcomed the Swedish National Audit Office's report on collaborative programmes and strategic innovation programmes as well as the letter from the government that this report generated and that we are now debating. It is clear, as previous speakers mentioned, that the Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment of the collaboration programmes is that the conditions for efficiency are consistently weak. The detailed criticism contained in the report therefore confirms the picture of problems that I have just described, which is why we propose that the Riksdag should make it known to the Government that the Government should make proposals on requirements for efficiency targets for the cooperation programmes. Furthermore, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we propose clarifications in regulatory letters and evaluation of programmes, because most of the problems that the Swedish National Audit Office has found according to them are largely related to regulatory letters, which are why they need to be reviewed and changed. The Swedish National Audit Office problems with the lack of clarity in the regulations to the authorities regarding collaboration, the composition of the programme portfolio and the form of the programme – in other words, that there is a lack of continuous documentation of considerations of responsibility allocation and organisation, and that there are shortcomings in how the assignments are formulated and so on. Regarding our view of the need for better evaluation of the programmes, it stems from the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the shortcomings in the evaluation impair the possibilities for efficiency in the programme form. However, the fact that it is difficult to evaluate is not so strange that, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, the authorities have not documented their own considerations when deciding on continued funding of certain programmes. Madam President, I would like The least that can be requested should reasonably be to document why public funds continue to be spent on programmes whose effectiveness and existence can be questioned from the outset. Therefore, we believe that the Riksdag should make the Government aware that it should begin a thorough evaluation of the implemented cooperation programmes and ensure that the cooperation programmes announced in July 2019 are subject to follow-up and evaluation in accordance with the Committee on Economic Affairs' previous statement, in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. Madam President, I would like I am fully aware that the Government's letter claims to respond to the criticisms that the National Audit Office made in its report. I am also aware that most parties in this House find it useful, but this is far from sufficient according to the opposition parties The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. We do not oppose the government's proposals for action, but simply believe that in addition to these we also need adjustments in regulatory letters, efficiency targets and systematic reviews. We must do our utmost to ensure that public money is not wasted, and I find it absolutely remarkable, Madam President, that neither the government nor the representatives of the government parties in Parliament want to do just that.
i-8vwNudVojfCXsc9PBxkdfx	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the state's efforts on strategic collaboration and innovation programmes and made a number of recommendations regarding the continued work within the Government Office, Vinnova, the Swedish Energy Agency and Formas. In its review, the Swedish National Audit Office has presented various points of view and also quite sharp criticism and co-sponsor. This applies to both the regulatory letters, the systematic follow-up work and the absence of a coherent evaluation and review process that is neither linked to the programme form nor to the individual programmes. It also points out that there are uncertainties in the regulatory letters to the relevant authorities on how to choose programmes and how to interact with each other, that there are shortcomings in the way in which the mandates are formulated and that the limits on the responsibility of the authorities are unclear. The interaction between the authorities is also unclear as to the composition of the programme portfolio and the form of the programme as a whole. The review also shows that formulations in the current research proposal and regulatory letters are not linked. In this respect, there is a risk of sending a double signal on the scope of the programmes. At the same time, it is pointed out that there is a lack of continuous documentation on the organisation and division of responsibilities within the programmes, which makes it difficult to provide an overview of the programmes. Madam President, I would like We believe that the Government must ensure that the deficiencies in the regulatory letters are addressed in accordance with the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office. Clarifications should cover the individual and joint responsibility of the authorities for the overall form of the programme, the interaction between the authorities and the prioritisation of innovation areas. The list is quite long, and we believe that the government should take on board more of the sharp criticism. The Government states that it will review the regulatory letters and instructions of the authorities in order to achieve greater clarity for the mission. This is welcome, but with the sharp criticism that is being made in the report, we believe that the measures announced by the government are not enough. We therefore call for the reservation in the report to be approved.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-426	Madam President, I would like We debate the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 7 The Swedish National Audit Office's report on collaborative programmes and strategic innovation programmes. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals and for reservations to be rejected. I would also like to thank the Swedish National Audit Office for the report. The aim of the Government's cooperation programme is to identify innovative solutions to our major societal challenges and to contribute to Swedish competitiveness. The collaborative programmes include industry, academia, civil society and public actors. This is a way of working that will remove drain pipes and instead let us get gutters. Madam President, I would like There are four themes which form the basis for the cooperation programmes this term of office. It is the climate change of the business community, where Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Industry accounts for a significant proportion of emissions while being a crucial part of the solution. It is the supply of skills and lifelong learning, where climate change, digitalisation and improved health will place higher demands on skills. As a result, the tasks will change. It is the digital restructuring of industry. The collaborative programme will contribute to increased digitalization leading to business benefits, innovations and solutions to societal challenges. It's health and life science. Sweden will be a leading life science nation that contributes to improving the health and quality of life of the population, ensuring economic prosperity and developing the country further as a leading knowledge nation. Madam President, I would like There are now 17 strategic innovation programmes funded by Vinnova, the Swedish Energy Agency and Formas. What kind of program is it? Among other things, it is Bioinnovation, which promotes a bio-based economy with the aim of creating conditions for value added and competitiveness. It is Drive Sweden, which creates the mobility services of the future based on connected, self-driving and shared vehicles. It is Infrasweden2030, which supports innovative products and production methods for a climate-smart transport infrastructure. It is Innovair, Sweden's national strategic innovation programme for aviation. It is the Internet of Things, which works to make Sweden a leader in exploiting the benefits of things and people being provided with built-in sensors and processors. It's Medtech4health. It's Metallic materials. It is Piia, which is about data analysis in industrial value chains.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-444	It is Re:source, which focuses on developing circular, resource-efficient material flows. The goal is to achieve sustainable use of materials where we stay within the boundaries of the planet. It is SIO Grafen, who is working to make Sweden one of the world's top ten countries to exploit the material graphene and ensure industrial leadership. It is SIP Lighter, which is one of the biggest competitive means for Swedish industry with a clear trend – that the future requires low weight. It's a smarter electronics system. It's Smart Built Environment. It is Swedish Mining Innovation, which will contribute to sustainable growth and strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish mining and metal-producing industry. It's Swelife. And it is Viable Cities – with IT and digitalisation, we are accelerating the transition to sustainable energy systems for cities. Madam President, I would like Why am I saying this? Yes, I do because I want everyone to hear that this is important for real and super exciting. I am very pleased that there are experts in the fields in all these different programmes. Today, however, we will discuss the effectiveness of these collaborative and strategic innovation programmes and their governance. That is what the Swedish National Audit Office's report is about. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that there are shortcomings in preparation, evaluations and documentation. The Government replies that it intends to review the regulatory letters and instructions of the authorities in the framework of the ordinary decision-making process to see how greater clarity can be achieved. This term of office has been designed by the Government to enable systematic follow-up and evaluation of the ongoing cooperation programmes. This design has been done in dialogue with the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analysis. The Government also agrees that government assignments in future innovation initiatives should be given with the best possible timeframe to allow the authorities for preparation and planning for the implementation of the missions. The Government's ambition is and will continue to be to provide the best possible timeframe for assignments to authorities, given all the factors that need to be taken into account for new innovation initiatives. In response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Government has also sought the authorities' views on the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and recommendations in the parts addressed to certain authorities and intends to follow up how these are handled, among other things, in connection with the annual government dialogues. We welcome this. Madam President, I would like Over the past 100 years, Sweden has gone from being one of Europe's poorest countries, where very many of our relatives left the country to seek happiness in other countries, to becoming one of the most prosperous and innovative countries in the world. The driving force behind this development has been, among other things, innovation and constant renewal. In order to maintain this position, we, as a country, must ensure that we constantly implement changes that no one else has done in the past. Madam President, I would like All that often makes an audit report that we really want answers to more questions than the defined area that the Swedish National Audit Office has investigated. This report did not answer at all if Sweden is successful as an innovation country. Then you have to look at other reports. Then you can see that Sweden according to the European Commission is Sweden's number one in the EU. According to the UN's Wipo, Sweden is second in the world. And according to Bloomberg, Sweden is now in fifth place in the world. Madam President, I would like Having said that, there are constant improvements to be made. There is no time to rest in shape. A small export-dependent country like Sweden requires continued strategic, sustainable and hard work.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-464	Madam President, I would like In recent years, the state has invested heavily in innovation, also in how we strengthen Sweden's global innovation and competitiveness. Nor does it stop with this year's budget where the biggest research efforts in Europe are made. The areas that have been focused on include bioeconomy with, for example, new uses for forest raw materials, but also future transport, digitalisation to a large extent of industry, green cities and much more. The idea is that the investments will create a sustainable development force throughout the country, not least because there is a large innovation capacity in regional clusters and initiatives. Added to this is the fact that innovation often takes place locally and perhaps in small businesses. Apple started in a garage in California. Ikea started in Agunnaryd. We also have thousands of other companies in Sweden that started as small, dared to challenge the existing and have grown big. That is what these systems are meant to take care of. Today's debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the targeted efforts that the state has made to strengthen the innovation that I just talked about. What has been looked at is the collaboration programmes and the strategic innovation programmes, where there is also cooperation between universities, research institutes, industry and the public sector. Madam President, I would like It is clear from the report that the Swedish National Audit Office has some views on how the Government has handled the investments, ranging from unclear instructions to responsible authorities, which authorities should be responsible for what and what requirements should be made for follow-up of initiatives, to how evaluation should be carried out. But it is also a question of deadlines, that we have enough time to implement the programmes effectively and effectively. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore comes with both rice and rose, but also with concrete proposals for improvements, not least in order for tax money to be used effectively. It is incredibly important that we always stand up for the tax money to be spent effectively. The government seems to have taken on board what the Swedish National Audit Office has said and therefore gives feedback on what you want to do. Among other things, the Swedish Agency for Growth Analysis will develop a better way of working to monitor and evaluate the programmes. Responsible authorities should provide feedback on things that the government experiences need to be clearer. The criticism of the tight deadline, which made it difficult for the authorities to prepare and plan the programmes properly, has also been taken on board. Nevertheless, it seems that this time the government has actually listened to the criticism that has been made. We would like that to be done more often. But it's nice that it's happening here. Of course, in all contexts where taxpayers' money is handled, the government should be careful and work with clarity, efficiency and evaluation. But this time the government seems to have taken on board the proposals for improvements that the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out, given the response to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticisms. Now we just hope that it will also be visible in the real world and in the continued efforts in this area in the coming years. I support the committee's proposal to add the letter to the file.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-473	Madam President, I would like I shall be exemplaryly brief in this debate. It is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on collaborative programmes and strategic innovation programmes. In fact, we trust that the government will take into account what the Swedish National Audit Office points out. I therefore support the proposal in the report to add the letter of the Government to the file.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-474	Madam President, I would like I'm going to be a little more tedious than the Left Party Member was. I would like to thank the Swedish National Audit Office in particular for a very good and incredibly necessary report. Sweden has built up a rather crappy system, I can honestly think. We have one of the highest tax burdens in the world. We in Sweden are living under one of the world's highest tax pressures. We have a lot of rules and bureaucracy. That is why we have a lot of obstacles to innovation for entrepreneurship and for entrepreneurship. We have a lot of things that stand in the way of people actually being able to drive innovation and create values and growth with the innovations that are being pushed forward. At the same time, we have built up a rather large grant system. With one hand we push down and hold back enterprising people with tough rules, a lot of bureaucracy and extremely high taxes. With the other hand, we pamper grants and various subsidies. It is clear that this system is not very effective if you want to see sustainable growth, innovation and so on. Some projects may sometimes need some support – absolutely. But in essence, economic and innovation policies must be based on deregulation and tax reductions and on removing barriers for entrepreneurs and innovative people. In fact, it is people who are not politicians who are driving development and not political goals and some contributions here and there and a little support here and there. Madam President, I would like I am quite proud of what the first alliance government did when it came to clearing up rules and bureaucracy. The first alliance government was very ambitious and successful in this. Then I think that they slowed down a little too much and lowered their level of ambition a little too much. It is clear that our policy must basically be about making people free – free from high taxes and free from too much regulation – and not making people or businesses dependent on different subsidies and subsidies. For this reason, this report should perhaps be called Riksrevisionen's report on part of the subsidy industry complex or something similar, because it is clear that a lot of the support we provide is not effective and does not fulfil its purpose. It would have been better to spend those resources on tax cuts and liberalisations – or reregulations, perhaps we should say in the January agreement; what do I know? Having said that, Madam President, I think that it should be taken with it that the government says it should look at these issues and make changes in the right direction. I think we have quite a long way to go. It is clear that one might ask why we – not we in the Liberals, perhaps, but the government – moved from a policy of removing regulatory interference to the system that I have described. I believe that this is about much of what we have heard from the speaker's chair here today. It's about if you pamper money from the political side you get nice anecdotes about innovations that you imagine politics has conjured up. As a politician, you may have to make fine study visits. Ibrahim Baylan sees impudent Powerpoint presentations from different parts of the contribution industry complex in his office. You get to feel like you're doing something as a politician, and that's a little nice. But the truth is that it is not politicians or Vinnova – or Ibrahim Baylan, for that matter – that are driving innovation in this country. It is individuals, entrepreneurs, enterprising people, who are creating development. Even if you get nice anecdotes here and there, I think that if you are such a politician who likes to show cool Powerpoint presentations and bring some grant contractor to a nice press conference and show up to the world, then you should read this report and think about whether it is not that we need much clearer follow-up and efficiency in the systems. It is true, as has been said here before, that Sweden has many patents and innovations. It's just that they don't come true. They are not realised and will not be sustainable in the market when trying to move from being a grant contractor to being an entrepreneur and a part of the market economy for real. That's our problem. Our problem is not that we have too few patents or anything like that. Our problem here in Sweden is that we do not create sustainable companies with the innovations that are being brought forward, and it is about the system that we have built up. There is one thing – certainly one among several – that we have actually subsidised through this system. Then I talk a little wider than what the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed, but since the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed some of this system, it is part of the debate. There are some where we have actually made progress, and that is the research that the business research institute Ratio has done. It shows, among other things, that companies that receive support – normally; of course we do not talk about during Coronatimes – are less productive and, listen and marvel, charge higher wages than companies that do not receive support. Companies that themselves have an idea and themselves have momentum, entrepreneurs that create real value and are not grant contractors, are thus more productive and add more value to the economy but charge lower wages. Madam President, I would like We will have to come back to the issue of the subsidy industry complex and how to remove a lot of regulatory problems, bureaucracy and other obstacles for entrepreneurs and lower taxes so that we get real entrepreneurship and real innovation power. Then Ibrahim Baylan may unfortunately get a little less brazen Powerpoint presentations to sit and stare at in his office, but we may get a little more growth in this country.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-489	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate the Social Security Committee's report The Swedish National Audit Office's report on return operations. In a letter, the Government reports its assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and the measures taken or planned in response to the report Return operations – results, costs and efficiency. I would like to begin by calling for our Amendment No 3 to be approved in the report. A person who, following a decision on expulsion, does not have the right to reside in Sweden shall return to his or her home country or to another country, primarily voluntarily and on his or her own. Decisions on expulsion or expulsion are carried out as a general rule by the Finnish Immigration Service. The Finnish Immigration Service may, however, hand over a case to the Police Authority for enforcement if the person stays away or if coercion may be required to execute the decision. In certain cases, the police authority decides to reject the decision and will implement it if the person does not leave the country on his or her own. The Correctional Service assists both the Migration Agency and the Police Authority with transports and travel orders. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed in the review report how the Government has governed the return operations and how the authorities have carried out these activities between 2013 and 2018. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that there are signs of a lack of results, including based on the relatively high proportion of persons who do not return after a decision on expulsion becomes enforceable. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the tasks of the authorities in some parts overlap and that there are coordination and border drawing problems as well as the risk of loss of efficiency as a result of an authority implementing or bearing the costs of decisions taken by another authority in some cases. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore recommends that the Government review, among other things, the tasks and responsibilities of the authorities. In its report, the reception inquiry presented an organised reception – joint responsibility for rapid establishment or return, a similar proposal that the Government should commission Statskontoret to map and analyse methods and working methods to increase voluntary return. On 9 July this year, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to analyse and propose measures to streamline the return work of the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Criminal Service. In addition to proposals for concrete improvement measures, the report may also include recommendations to both the Government and the relevant authorities. Statskontoret must continuously keep the Government Office informed during the implementation of the assignment. The assignment must be presented in writing to the Government by 16 June next year, i.e. 2021. According to the government decision, it is not part of the mission to fundamentally review the division of responsibilities or to consider a major organisational change. We believe that this is a reasonable demarcation of the mission, because a change in the division of responsibilities, for example by moving missions between authorities or forming a new authority, would use a large amount of resources but would not certainly significantly improve results because many factors other than the division of responsibilities and organisation have an impact on return. In addition, even with a change in the division of responsibilities, coordination and close interaction between the relevant authorities, given the core tasks and powers of the authorities, would be necessary. Madam President, I would like We therefore think that the Government has taken the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism very seriously. It may also be relevant to make a comparison between relations in Sweden and internationally. Since 2010, about 60 per cent of return cases have been closed by persons leaving Sweden. It may seem to be a bad result, and the result should of course be better, but it is still a significantly higher level than the EU average. During 2014 – 2020, more than 80,000 people with expulsion decisions have been registered as displaced from Sweden. It may be useful to add to this discussion that the number of asylum cases this year due to the pandemic is expected to be the lowest since the turn of the millennium – about 13 500. Let us hope that there will then be room to concentrate on these kinds of issues.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-498	Madam President, I would like A cornerstone of regulated immigration is the return of those who have been denied asylum to their home country. If you are granted asylum, you should get help and support to become a part of society. If asylum is denied in a final decision, in the context of a legal process, you should leave the country. Unfortunately, this is working extremely badly today. It is the report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which is the starting point for today's debate, yet another proof of. The problem is not new. The negative consequences are considerable. We get growing shadow societies with people living in the country without having a right to it. Shadow societies are associated with social vulnerability, illegal work and, in some cases, crime. Children in particular are hard hit by this. We also have a relaxation of regulated immigration. This is particularly serious given the extensive migration of asylum Sweden has had in combination with poorly functioning integration. Immigration policy now needs to be very tight. Our resources should go to people in need of protection, not to those who lack such protection. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which makes an important contribution to the debate, shows how badly it is. The Swedish National Audit Office has followed 23 000 cases from 2013 and 2014 where it has been decided that a person should leave Sweden. Four years later, just over half of the cases studied had been closed with a registered departure from the country. Thus, in nearly half of these cases, an exit from Sweden was not registered after four years. In a very large number of cases, the asylum seeker does not voluntarily leave the country after a refusal decision. He or she goes underground or otherwise refuses to follow the decision. The Finnish Immigration Service will hand over the case to the police. The police, in turn, find it very difficult to execute expulsion decisions. The Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of shortcomings. For example, the management of return operations is assessed as weak, unclear and fragmented. The ultimate responsibility for how badly it works rests with the Social Democratic-led government. For six years, it has been possible to strengthen return policy, including through:
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-506	中 clear priorities
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-508	New tools for the relevant authorities - measures in the field of foreign policy. But the government has done too little, and what has been done has unfortunately had little effect. The result that the Swedish National Audit Office reports speaks for itself t. Stronger efforts are now needed to actually expel more people who are to be expelled. The Moderates have recently presented eight proposals for how more people will leave the country after expulsion decisions. I would like to mention some of these in this House today. The first is the anklet, as a complement to detention, when persons are deemed not to be fully willing to cooperate with the authorities in order to enforce an expulsion decision. The second is the obligation to notify asylum seekers. An asylum seeker must be available to the Finnish Immigration Service. A person who deviates without providing contact information shall lose the right to both accommodation and benefits. The third is information obligations for public Sweden. The Swedish Tax Agency and other authorities shall be obliged to inform the Finnish Immigration Service and the police in contact with persons who reside in Sweden without being entitled to it. The fourth is to stop subsidies during unlawful stay. We Moderates want to introduce national legislation which in principle prohibits municipalities from providing financial support to people who are illegally present in the country. The fifth is to make aid conditional. The consequence of refusing to receive nationals who have been expelled from Sweden should be that the aid from Sweden should be withdrawn or reduced. There must once and for all be an end to double messages in immigration policy. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office mentions that target conflicts make return operations more difficult. The Upper Secondary Education Act is perhaps the most obvious example. It is a law that the S-MP government has pushed forward and that the S-MP government now wants to make even more generous. The Gymnasie Act sends a message to the outside world that anyone who comes to Sweden can stay even though he or she does not respect an expulsion decision; there is in Sweden sooner or later the chance of amnesty. That is, of course, very unfortunate. Madam President, I would like This is in many ways a bleak area. There is therefore reason to highlight one positive point: the majority in the committee, which includes the Moderates, supports the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal for a thorough investigation concerning the assignment and division of responsibilities between the three authorities responsible for return operations – the Migration Agency, the Police Authority and the Prison Service. The Social Democrats and the Green Party alone are opposed to this proposal. As the Swedish National Audit Office writes, there are today significant problems with overlapping responsibilities, unclear responsibilities, identical tasks and broken responsibilities regarding return operations. A thorough investigation in this area is highly justified. The mandate should include considering a change in today's agency organisation. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to support reservation 1 by the Moderates and Christian Democrats and the Social Security Committee's proposal under paragraph 2.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-519	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by apologizing for the fact that I may be a bit boring in my speech. I am the substitute for the one who would have taken part in the debate. I am, therefore, in fact, much more slick when I debate. Perhaps you can see that later. The Left Party is very critical of the priorities made by the Government in its efforts to increase the return of those who are refused asylum applications. We believe that the focus should be on effective return, while maintaining the rule of law and human dignity and not on repressive measures. Considerations within the framework of return must also be made against a serious lack of humanity and legal certainty in the asylum process itself, in our view. Therefore, there is no reason, as the majority of committees have chosen to do, to emphasise further precisely the return perspective before other important balances. The work that Statskontoret is already doing in this area should be enough. Madam President, I would like In the Swedish Red Cross's long-standing work on these issues, it has been clear that there are positive incentives that increase the willingness to and opportunity for return. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the debate today and in the committee should focus on exactly the opposite. What is the purpose of a debate on repression and harder hold if it does not have the desired effect? Could it be that the debate should not be about other important issues-- what do I know? But we should have a more decent entrance. We want this to work well, don't we? It can't just be that we hit the big room to show ourselves cool in this Chamber. This is about extending the start-up aid to include more nationalities and providing needs-oriented advice after rejection of the asylum application and for return. It is also a question of targeted support measures for particularly vulnerable groups such as women who are victims of violence and people with disabilities. To prepare for a return so that both material and psychosocial conditions are as good as possible facilitates return. These insights should guide cooperation and agreements with other countries rather than threats of withdrawal of development aid. Madam President, I would like The discussion on target conflicts leads wrong. An asylum process characterised by efficiency and legal certainty with short processing times would result in decisions that are more acceptable and reduce the risk of a strong connection with Sweden. This would facilitate return work. In this way, the objectives can work together for a better functioning process rather than being opposed to each other. The government should therefore come back with a return policy strategy based on experience of what actually works and where migration policy objectives work together. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-525	Madam President, I would like In the new proposal for an EU Asylum and Migration Pact, the Commission writes as follows: This is, of course, true in every way. However, it is also a huge challenge, because we know that only about a third of those who are going to return are going to do so. That only those who have the right to stay can stay is, of course, as true for the Swedish part. Here we are discussing the Swedish National Audit Office's report on return operations, and it is a less cheerful reading, to put it mildly. The Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, have submitted a follow-up motion in response to the sharp criticisms of the National Audit Office. Of course, I am in favour of reservation 1 but also of the committee's proposal to set up an investigation to review the division of responsibilities for return activities. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that it is difficult to assess how many people remain in Sweden or the EU without a permit despite registered exit. Let it sink in properly! It is a mystery to me that we do not have a larger and more committed and intense debate on how we can ensure that return is improved. The Swedish National Audit Office questions whether it is possible to significantly improve the efficiency of return operations with existing administrative assignments and the existing division of responsibilities between the authorities. For this reason, we have therefore proposed that an investigation be set up to review the division of responsibilities and consider further whether it should not be an authority that should have overall responsibility for return work. We in the Christian Democrats have exercised this in the past. In this part there is thankfully support in the Swedish parliament. Let me dwell a little on what is called target conflicts. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that these conflicts make return difficult when the signal sent out is that a no may not be a no. The Swedish National Audit Office exemplifies with the change of track, i.e. that you can get a new trial for work or studies even though you have a final decision on expulsion. The Swedish National Audit Office also mentions the unaccompanied minors who, instead of being rejected or expelled, are now allowed to study at upper secondary level. Little knew the Swedish National Audit Office when they wrote that this conflict of objectives would pick up further through the development of the last few days. On Friday, the Finnish Immigration Service suddenly announced that probationary employment is now sufficient for permanent residence permits. However, under the Temporary Act in force, young people who are granted a permanent residence permit must be able to make a living. The preparatory work makes it clear that this should be about a sustainable supply. It has been interpreted by the Finnish Immigration Service in so-called legal positions and concluded that it is a matter of having an open-ended or fixed-term employment of at least two years. This has been communicated over and over again by the authority, even during this year. Now, all of a sudden, this is no longer going to apply. Note that nothing in our current legislation has changed or been adjusted. Madam President, I would like The fact that I am sticking to the terms of the PUT is not solely due to the fact that it is a highly topical issue. Handling shows a fine example of how it should not work if we see that target conflicts are a problem for achieving effective and voluntary return. The fact that goal conflicts are a definite problem is not something that only the Swedish National Audit Office or the Christian Democrats claim, but that many others have also highlighted. This applies, among other things, to the Delegation for Migration Studies, Delmi, which, as recently as this year, has written about this in a report on return policy. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying something very briefly about asylum applications. The Christian Democrats proposed in 2015 that so-called asylum application areas be established near our major border crossings. You can register your asylum application there. There will also be an initial assessment of the cases. This is one way of achieving faster registration, but it is also a decision-making process that is both effective and legally secure. The proposal was, of course, met with customary harsh criticism from the government and Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. But since then a government investigation has presented a proposal for so-called arrival centres. They bear very clear similarities with the Christian Democrats' proposals. Asylum application areas make it possible to have a single reception and a single decision-making process that clearly improves the possibilities of preventing people from deviating and ending up in a vulnerable position. Those who deviate from the asylum application areas before an asylum application is completed must meet with the police who inform that they no longer have the right to be in Sweden. If you do not apply for asylum, you must leave the country. I hope, on the basis of the obvious problems that exist with the return, as the National Audit Office well points out, that our proposal on asylum applications will thus be the subject of a constructive discussion in the future. I am in favour of reservation 1, which the Christian Democrats have written together with the Moderates, and of the committee's proposal for an inquiry into the responsibility for return operations.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-535	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on return operations, that is, how the Swedish authorities work to ensure that people who, for example, have applied for asylum but received a rejection of their asylum application can return to their home countries. The Green Party considers it useful to evaluate the activities, but at the same time does not think that the majority of the Social Security Committee's proposal to investigate a total reorganisation of the activities is appropriate. There are, of course, things to review in the division of responsibilities between the Prison Service and the police in terms of return. But with my experience following the reorganisation of the police, I can say that if there is anything that does not lead to greater efficiency quickly, it is reorganization. Statskontoret has previously stated that it can take five to seven years after a major reorganisation before you are even back at the level you had before. It is not the right time to reorganise the return operation now. However, the Government has given a mandate to Statskontoret to evaluate other improvements that can be made. Madam President, I would like It is very important that this business works well. People who do not get the right to stay in Sweden should return to their home countries. But what leads to an effective return? One of the factors that has already been raised in the debate is the question of reasonable processing times by the authorities. A person who has applied for asylum and waits for several years in Sweden to get a message takes root here. There are people who came in 2015 and then waited for two, three or even four years before they got their final decision. If you get a rejection there is a lot that has happened during the time in Sweden that can say that it is more difficult to return. For example, new asylum reasons may have arisen, such as conversion to a new religion or falling in love and having children here. Legal certainty – and people's experience of having legal asylum procedures – is also central to whether or not they are inclined to leave the country voluntarily. It is important that we have legal asylum procedures. If people seek protection, for example, because they claim to be persecuted because of their sexual orientation, but are rejected because the Migration Board does not believe in them, for example does not believe that they are homosexuals, although they actually are, there is, of course, an incredible fear in the people concerned, a fear of what will happen if they are sent back. I believe that the fear of being oppressed and persecuted is one of the main reasons why people do not return voluntarily to their countries of origin. The Green Party does not think that the legal certainty of the asylum procedure is good enough. This applies not least to matters relating to LGBT people and converts. Incentives for voluntary return are also important. There are people who have come to Sweden after the whole family has collected money for the trip. The assistance that can be provided in the event of voluntary return may be crucial for a person to choose to return voluntarily. But then, Madam President, there are those who cannot return, even though they have been rejected and despite their cooperation. There are countries that do not accept their citizens, and there are cases where countries do not agree on whose citizens a person really is. People who cannot return, who have what is called practical enforcement barriers, should be given a sanctuary in Sweden. During my time as a Migration Policy spokesperson for the Green Party, I have met people who have been in Sweden for 13 years without being able to either root here and gain security or return to their home country. Living 13 years in limbo without the right to work and without the right to study is unworthy. Madam President, I would like I apologise for the fact that I am going to suspend my speaking time, but I need to comment on some of the things that previous speakers have raised but which were not part of my planned speech. The members of both Moderates and Christian Democrats have commented on the changes planned by the government in the new High School Act. These changes are very urgent and well motivated. The unaccompanied youth who arrived in 2015 and who were affected by illegally long processing times, legal uncertainty of age and also new practice from the Migration Agency are now facing applying for permanent employment or two-year jobs six months after the student. It is gratifying that the Migration Agency has now changed its practice, so that the usual probationary period of six months can also be valid. But still! Imagine the young people who have now trained in the hotel and restaurant industry, full of eagerness to contribute to Swedish society. However, if you enter the labour market now in the coronapdemin, there are no jobs. In the same way that society has changed so that those who become unemployed are better entitled to unemployment benefit, so that those who run a business can receive conversion aid and deferral of tax payments and so that we have contributed to the cultural and sports movement in order for them to cope with the pandemic, we need to review the rules for this group of unaccompanied people too. Anything else would be unreasonable. With regard to the Moderates' proposal to make aid conditional, I have to say that the analysis is an incredible basis. So the Moderates want to make people poorer in countries from which people flee. It is believed that fewer people will flee to Sweden. We take it again: Lowered aid will lead to fewer people coming to Sweden fleeing the countries that receive reduced aid. This doesn't make any sense. In fact, the Moderates must take a step forward and see that cuts in climate policy and aid policy are counterproductive. If we want fewer refugees in the world, we should invest more in aid that combats poverty and promotes democracy. We also need to resolve the climate crisis. The UN University's findings indicate that 200 million people are already at risk of being climate refugees within a few decades. That's three times what's on the run today. This is the destiny of our time. Madam President, I would like People who have applied for asylum and been rejected are not criminals. These are people who have fled for their lives. Sometimes it turns out that the Migration Agency believes that instead of fleeing to Sweden, they should have fled to the other side of their own country. Sometimes it's about not being believed. Sometimes it is that they simply had no reason to flee fundamentally. But they are no matter which people have the same rights and the right to freedom as us. We must remember that, even when discussing return operations. With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal in the report, except in the part in which I support reservation 3.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-546	Madam President, I would like I think most people can see that there are extensive deficiencies in return operations even without a report from the Swedish National Audit Office. But it is of course great that the Swedish National Audit Office now confirms what everyone already knows, i.e. that the return operation in Sweden is under all criticism. The report is definitely a harsh reading. Parliament's and the government's objectives are not being met. Costs increase both in total and per case. The whole operation is plagued by severe conflict of interests. Since 2015, some 130 000 people have been refused their asylum application. Of them, about 45 000 have returned voluntarily. Some 40,000 cases have been handed over to the police. But only a little less than half of them — or about 18,000 cases — have been executed. The total return does not even amount to 50%. Madam President, I would like Now, please note that I'm saying something about these numbers. It's not because I'm ill-read or like to make overdrafts for some particular reason. It is simply because no one knows the exact figures. Just as the Swedish National Audit Office writes in the report, the disturbance is so great that the authorities do not even count the same things or in the same way. But one thing is absolutely certain: tens of thousands of people who should leave Sweden immediately do not. That's because in Sweden a no is not a no, but rather a nja. Or, if you're good enough to hide for long enough, then a no can be a yes. For years the Swedish Democrats have been trying to draw attention not only to this government but also to previous governments to all the problems that exist when it comes to a 'no' being a 'no'. This applies in practice to all regulated immigration. It is a question of anyone who does not have the right to be in the country also leaving the country. It is, of course, the best thing to do on a voluntary basis, but otherwise it must be done with the necessary coercion. I listened here earlier to Erik Ottoson. I think it is great that he raised the eight points of Moderates for an increased return. That is almost even a little sweet, given that all eight points were included in the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats to the Migration Committee. I can raise by another 25 points that are included in our motions on shadow society and illegal migration. I hope, of course, that the Moderates will be happy to support the 25 points when they are to be raised in this House this year. Madam President, I would like The whole of society must work together to find and expel those who simply lack the right to be here in Sweden. Sweden must stop sending double signals. It cannot be okay for those who have used the generosity of the asylum system to their own advantage when they receive the expulsion order to just ignore it and go underground with the good memory of the state. We need to eliminate the conflict of objectives involved in the change of track and phase out the high school amnesty. We must ensure that there is the order that everyone is talking about but that few seem prepared to do something to implement. Either we have regulated immigration, or we don't have it. It would be nice if all parties could tell us where they stand on this issue. It seems a little unclear in some places. Where the Swedish Democrats stand on this issue, I do not think anyone needs to hesitate. If we are to reach the net minute in asylum-related migration that is required today, after the 2010s' total headless migration policy, we need a return that is effective and rational. Our authorities need the right tools to carry out their mission. It is not only possible to stand and say: we should have the best return in the world, or what the slogan of the Social Democrats and the government can be just today. The government that has been in power for six years still talks about what it will do in the future. Why haven't you done anything? That's my question. Madam President, I would like A good start could have been to listen to what the Swedish National Audit Office says in its report: There is a lack of an overall perspective both within and outside the relevant authorities. Despite the fact that the Finnish Immigration Service, or the National Immigration Service at the time, was given overall responsibility for return operations back in 1999, as mentioned earlier, the responsibility in practice today is divided between three different authorities: the police, the Prison Service and the Migration Agency. Madam President, I would like It seems reasonable to concentrate a larger part of the activity to an authority, and then suggest the Migration Agency. There is already the whole process of immigration to Sweden, and it is to be hoped that it would increase its effectiveness if it were given real responsibility for the return operation as well. This would apply in particular if the government were to give priority to this particular area. The government should therefore review the agencies' tasks and responsibilities as soon as possible and consider a change in the agency's organisation in this area in line with what the Swedish National Audit Office proposes. In so doing, I am in favour of reservation 1 in paragraph 1 and I support the committee's proposal in paragraph 2.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-558	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the issue of return in migration policy. From my liberal point of view, if I look back on my political commitment, which now goes beyond a quarter of a century, I have always stood up for a tolerant and humane migration policy. There are many people around the world – actually hundreds of millions, or billions if we are to be honest – who are not as fortunate as I am. They are not born in a country of freedom and democracy. They may be forced to grow up in war zones or where they risk being arrested by the secret services and tortured and so on. It is extremely important that Sweden has a migration policy in which we help people who are in need of protection. The whole condition for this to work is that those people who do not have a sufficiently strong need for protection under our legislation also accept and respect the Swedish authorities' decisions. Madam President, I would like I would like to say that, in the longer term, it is impossible to maintain the idea and the system for Sweden where Sweden is an immigration-friendly country if we do not have order in our migration policy. I can understand those who are strongly opposed to immigration. They want a lot of return. I can well understand that, because it means that people leave Sweden. But it is just as important to me as a strong supporter of a humane and humane refugee policy that the rules are maintained. Otherwise, we undermine the entire legitimacy of the order we are going to have in Sweden where we stand up and help those in need of protection. It also, by extension, undermines the right of asylum as a whole. The right of asylum does not mean the right to obtain a residence permit in another country. The right of asylum means the right to be tried in order to obtain a residence permit. In the long run, undermining this right will ultimately affect refugees and those who really need protection. The more people who burden the Swedish reception system, the more people who try to fix and trick, escape regulations, stay in the country even though they have a final judgment about leaving the country, the more people who do so, the more the legitimacy of the entire Swedish reception is undermined, and the less resources, power and commitment we can spend on the people who are most in need of the system. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed 23 000 cases where people have been refused asylum applications from 2013 onwards. It turns out that in just over half of the cases the people have actually left the country. Then there is a quarter who have kept out of the way in various ways so that the limitation period of four years has expired. Then there is the last quarter, which you can call the pot with the others, where most people have probably managed to get a residence permit because you have invented some new reasons or as you have received support for and then been able to stay anyway. But it is only every other person in the 23 000 cases that have been reviewed who has left Sweden, even though our authorities and courts have decided that they should do so. It turns out that in half of these 23 000 cases the person has not left the country voluntarily. Then the Migration Agency has been forced to hand over the cases to the police. When the police get their hands on the cases and are going to execute them and find these people, they must prioritise this among all other police activities, i.e. gang shootings, robberies, burglaries and all sorts of things. It also turns out that it is only in one third of the cases that come to the police that there is a registered exit from Sweden four years later. Madam President, I would like It doesn't make sense anywhere that it works this way. That is why a majority – a majority means all parties except the government parties – in the Social Security Committee, which is responsible for this – has decided to review the division of responsibilities between the three authorities, the Migration Agency, the police and the Prison Service, in order to be able to get right on these issues. In addition, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that it will be very strange when almost all politicians stand together on the barricades in Sweden and say: We must have order. We need an orderly and sustainable migration policy. At the same time, however, different types of special rules, derogations, new rules and temporary provisions are being implemented, which will ultimately lead to more confusion in policy. The clearest example of this is the so-called High School Act, where almost 9 000 people who have all received a final judgment about leaving Sweden on a board are given the opportunity to stay anyway. When new concerns arise during the journey, new changes are made, and now there are further changes sent for referrals and so on. We can't have that either. We must be able to stand up in the Swedish Parliament because Sweden has regulated immigration. In the long run, it is only this system that guarantees that those who have the greatest need for protection can stay in Sweden and have the opportunity for good integration and establishment in our country.
i-b1cac6f9fe7c82d8-573	Madam President, I would like On this matter, too, I am in reserve today, so please excuse my somewhat meagre speech. But I hope that I will find out what the Left Party thinks on this issue. Actually, my favorite issues are raising pensions or safeguarding health insurance, but now I have to deal with another important issue. Personal integrity is of particular importance for individual freedom and, by extension, also for security. It is important to recall this in times when freedom is curtailed by various directives and legislative proposals. This also applies when we are discussing this matter today about the processing of sensitive personal data in testing activities under the Alien Data Act. Madam President, I would like It is important that sufficient testing activities and the like can be carried out before IT systems are put into operation. However, it is regrettable that in this case the government has not taken sufficient account of the problems and risks involved in allowing more extensive testing activities. Several consultation bodies have called for a more detailed analysis of risks to individuals' privacy, and alternative less privacy-impairing approaches have been presented. Many have also asked for an analysis of whether there is a need to abolish the ban on the processing of sensitive personal data in testing activities. It has also been pointed out that there is a lack of clarity as to what constitutes a processing of biometric data and that further guidance is needed in the assessment of what constitutes an absolutely necessary treatment. Madam President, I would like The shortcomings of the government's current proposal are so great that the bill should not be adopted. The issues of privacy should be given greater importance in a legislative case of this kind. The government should therefore return to the Riksdag with a more thorough proposal to enable this particular test activity. The proposal must include a more robust analysis of the risks to privacy. All in all, the Government's proposal, in our view, is so flawed that it should be rejected. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation 1 in paragraph 1.
i-N6gKCJFrXbhwGY2NPqXr1q	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the Social Security Committee's proposal in the report on the processing of sensitive personal data in testing activities under the Alien Data Act and the rejection of reservations. We support the Government's proposal for amendments to the Alien Data Act. The proposal allows the Migration Agency, the Police Authority and the foreign authorities to process sensitive personal data in accordance with foreign and citizenship law, for example to check that existing IT systems operate in an efficient and legally secure manner or to test and develop new technologies in order to participate in international cooperation. Madam President, I would like We share the Government's assessment that it is necessary to be able to process sensitive personal data in testing operations. Like the Government, we believe that the same requirements should apply to the processing of sensitive personal data in testing operations as for processing in sharp operation and that processing should only be permitted if the data is strictly necessary for the purpose of processing. Nor does the Constitutional Committee, which has expressed its views on the government's legislative proposals on the protection of personal integrity, object to the approval of the bill. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 December this year.
