i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-1	Madam President, I would like For more than 200 years, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee has examined that the Government and the Ministers have complied with the constitutions and other laws and regulations governing the government's work in the performance of their duties. The members of the Constitutional Committee are all elected by the people and belong to different political parties, but the review is formal and is not about what can be considered politically desirable or reprehensible. The review by the Constitutional Committee can be said to require political responsibility on a constitutional basis. The fact that the constitutional rather than the political perspective is the basis for the committee's review work is of central importance. It commits but at the same time offers openings to consensus across party boundaries where consensus does not always prevail. This year's review work has been different as a result of the pandemic that the world is now experiencing. The committee decided last spring to postpone the so-called spring review until autumn. The autumn is normally used for a more administratively oriented review. This year it has become the case that the committee has had to work in parallel with these two reviews. This means that in this report, the KU10, we are presenting the results of the whole year's review work. The 2020 review is based on 30 notifications, which may be considered normal but in the higher part of the normal range. In the last 20 years, the number of notifications has varied from just under 20 to around 40. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, we will come back to this in more detail during the debate, but I would like to mention, overall, that the committee is pointing out shortcomings in 12 of these 30 dossiers. The ministers involved are Isabella Lövin, Ann Linde, Peter Hultqvist, Ylva Johansson and Per Bolund and a number of other ministers who have spoken, which we will return to. For about 20 years before 2015, there were on average nine reservations per review report. But from 2015 it changed. The Constitutional Committee then began to work actively to keep political overtones away and instead focus on objectivity and strict legal, constitutional scrutiny. The ambition led to results: The audit reports in 2015 to 2019 had only a few reservations, which may well be described as unique. In 2018, there were parliamentary elections, and new members took place in the Constitutional Committee. The question was raised whether the KU would thus deviate from the facts and allow breast tones and politicisation to color the work. But that has not been the case. Madam President, I would like This is a completely unanimous report without a single reservation, and we have reason to be delighted and proud of that. However, it is not only agreement that is pleasing with this year's review. If the committee had agreed on a poor-quality report, it would hardly have managed to make up for the shortcomings. There would have been nothing to be proud of. But that's not the case. Today, the committee can present to the House a solid and well-prepared report with unanimous conclusions, and that is a success. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee secretariat for a very good work done, and I would also like to extend warm thanks to all members of the committee for good cooperation despite the challenges that the pandemic has brought to us in various ways. I also believe that, through this year's review work, we have built on last year's good foundations to succeed in this, including the rest of the term of office. Madam President, I would like After the initial debate, the committee will debate the chapters and dossiers of the review report in more detail. This year's review report begins with a chapter describing the Committee's general, administratively oriented review. These are matters which the committee puts forward on its own initiative. The review based on Members of Parliament's notifications is then presented in various chapters. The first of these chapters deals with certain questions concerning the government's relationship with the Riksdag. The next two chapters deal with the handling of certain government matters and some questions concerning the government's responsibility for administration. The report concludes with a chapter which addresses certain issues relating to the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. Madam President, I would like I would now like to comment on some of the committee's scrutiny matters, and I will start with the issues where the committee has found shortcomings. The first is two notifications which have been merged into a case in which we have examined the Government Office's handling of data on the Iraqi Minister of Defence. It is about the information that has emerged that the former Minister of Defence in Iraq, Najah al-al-Shammari, has been resident in Sweden since 2009 and has become a Swedish citizen in 2015. The investigation also revealed, among other things, that a preliminary investigation into crimes against humanity had been initiated against the Iraqi Minister of Defence. The KU questions the assessment that neither Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde nor Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist needed to be informed about the situation. At the same time as this information was available in the Government Office, Sweden had military personnel in Iraq, and the question of extending the mandates for the Swedish operation was on the government's table. The information did not come to the attention of either the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence until later this was reported in the media. The Constitutional Committee has previously reviewed and criticised the government's handling of information provision within the Government Office in the matters concerning the Swedish Transport Agency in 2017 and in the handling of the tsunami disaster in 2004. During the committee's hearings, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence have argued that the assessment that the information did not have to be provided was correct. However, KU's assessment is that it is not possible to escape the fact that the government and responsible ministers have an overall responsibility to ensure that responsible ministers receive relevant and necessary information. The lack of information management is also highlighted by the committee in its review of the handling of information on what has been referred to in the media as the false officer. The fact that the committee has again found shortcomings in the information management of the Government Office therefore raises questions about the government's ability to learn lessons from past events and correct mistakes made in the management of information in previous crises. The second case I want to raise is the permit review on the extension of Preem's refinery in Lysekil, where the government chose to take over the process after the Land and Environment Court decided to allow the extension. The committee notes that a decision by the government to require an admissibility review should be taken as early as possible in the process and that the government should strive for this to be done at first instance. The government should be careful to take over the admissibility test at a late stage. Even greater caution is also required as the higher the case is dealt with in the higher court. This is particularly important in the light of the constitutional independence of the courts. The committee also notes that the statements made by the Minister for Climate and the Environment on the need for new fossil investments may give rise to doubts as to whether the test is objective and impartial. The committee also questions the suitability of the form and content of the communication that has taken place between the Government and representatives of Preemraff before the company withdrew its application. Madam President, I would like The third matter I will raise is the application for a processing concession for Kallak. In that government matter, no visible action was taken for nearly three years, which, according to the committee, is an unacceptable delay. Both these cases, the permit review for Preem and the application for processing concession for Kallak, are cases that, although in different ways, risk affecting individual companies' ability to conduct business in Sweden and put light on issues of legal certainty in individual permit processes. Finally, I would like to say something about the administrative review. The committee has continued to monitor developments in the number of officials in the Government Office. We have reviewed the government protocols from 2019, including the sub-protocols from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure. In its opinion, the committee assumes that the government will take the necessary planning measures to maintain the time between announcement and entry into force. In the review of administrative matters, the committee has examined matters within the Ministry of Infrastructure. The committee stresses in its position the importance of not delaying the handling of cases unnecessarily. The committee has also re-examined the power of appointment. As in the past, the review focuses on political background and gender. The proportion of women among those appointed as heads of government in Sweden has increased and has for several years been just below 50 per cent. Among appointed managers of foreign agencies, the percentage of women has also increased and is now at 49%. In its position, the committee points out that we welcome the development of the proportion of women among the appointed Heads of Government, which is now about the same as the proportion of men. Madam President, I would like With this, I shall report on behalf of the Constitutional Committee the results of the examination presented in our report under Chapter 13. Section 2 the form of government.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-25	Madam President, I would like The KU has the task of submitting an audit report to the Riksdag once a year. It is usually divided into a spring report, which deals with complaints against individual ministers from MPs, and an autumn report that is more focused on reviewing processes and administrative procedures. Due to the pandemic, the KU postponed the examination of individual ministers in the autumn to enable the government to concentrate on dealing with the acute crisis, in the hope that the situation would be calmer in the autumn. It turned out later that autumn did not get much calmer, but the KU's constitutional review must of course be carried out despite the difficult conditions. I would like to thank my colleagues in the KU and our fantastic office for their work. In spite of the circumstances, we have been able to carry out a thorough and thorough examination. This year, we've reviewed 30 cases. Of these, a majority has been written off without comment. A number of comments have been made to provide guidance for future handling of the corresponding cases. One could say that the KU there has acted as the good accountant. In a number of cases, the KU criticises the actions of the ministers. It is important that in such cases the KU can make its positions in broad political agreement so that it becomes clear what is constitutional criticism and what is criticism of government policy. The KU has now been able to deliver such a report for the sixth time in broad agreement. When we see, to say the least, complex processes on the international stage, it feels stable when we can formulate a common perception of reality here. It goes without saying that we are all marked by the political environment from which we come. It is necessary for Members to try to be a little bigger than what a narrow political perspective would result in and for the individual parties to give Members the opportunity for the integrity of the mission. In a number of cases, notifications have been made against statements in the media or in debates. This is something that comes back year after year. It is a difficult balance of what is a reasonable space to express itself in a political debate in polemic and biased terms, without being contrary to the so-called objective requirement. For what would a political debate without that particular nerve be? A lukewarm gruel. I hope, of course, that our report will provide guidance for the future on this point, but I suspect that the breach will continue to occur in the future. As for the details of the notifications in the various areas, my fellow party members will go up and discuss our conclusions. Finally, in order to save time, I would like to say a few things about the power of appointment. It is important that a political background is not disqualifying when recruiting for higher positions but that merit and skill are assessed on a case-by-case basis. We can see that the number of political appointments, if you say so, is not increasing but is at a stable level. It is important that it is not the party from which you come that makes decisions, but the very merit and skill. We also see an increase in the proportion of women in appointments, which we find very satisfactory.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-37	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the committee for its good cooperation, which has resulted in a united report, in which I and my party see great value. I would also like to extend my sincere thanks to our excellent and very knowledgeable office staff. They have incredible patience with our whims and usually manage to guide us through a tangled jungle of response memorias, facts, laws, opinions and late text adjustments. This year's reviews have sometimes been rather complicated, and without the support we have had from each other and from the office, our work would have been more difficult to carry out. The work has also been made more difficult by the pandemic that is currently raging in the world. Normally, the committee presents its review of the ministers during the spring. This year the work had to be postponed, and new solutions for the work of the committee were introduced. Among other things, a hearing has been conducted digitally, which is said to have been the first time ever. The fact that the work has nevertheless been completed, albeit somewhat late, may be seen as showing that the work of the committee has been able to continue despite the pandemic's influence. It is a good report and shows that the Swedish Parliament is well equipped when it really is. The Constitutional Committee has dealt with 30 notifications, and the committee has had views in 12 cases. As has just been said, we will go through the notifications in more detail in the forthcoming speeches. In general, however, certain recurring trends in government work can be seen. Some of the committee's opinions relate to the information that has reached, or rather has not reached, the ministers. In these cases, the ministers have not been informed of serious deficiencies known in the departments. In several cases, the information in question has only reached the ministers after the media have reported on the shortcomings. It is, of course, up to the ministers to ensure that they have the necessary information on serious shortcomings and other major events within their areas of responsibility, as the committee also points out. Some of the complaints that the committee has had to deal with have concerned the statements of the Council of Ministers. The committee notes that misleading statements by ministers have been made in some cases. In some cases, ministers have been misinformed, and it is difficult to load them. In other cases, the statements have been made as party representatives or in a debate situation, which does not make the same demands as in other cases. Where the statements of the ministers have been misleading, they should have been corrected where possible, something that has not always happened, unfortunately. In the administrative review, the committee continued to monitor developments in the number of officials in the Government Office. Government protocols have been reviewed, administrative matters within the Ministry of Infrastructure have been reviewed and the appointing authority has also been reviewed. The committee notes that the proportion of appointed heads of government with a political background has remained constant since the turn of the government in 2006. The same applies in the foreign authorities. The committee wishes to stress its previous view that political background should not be disqualifying from appointment, but that consideration should only be given to factual grounds such as merit and skill. As far as the government protocols are concerned, the committee notes that in several cases less than four weeks have elapsed from the publication of a constitution until its entry into force. The committee assumes that the government, in so far as it is in charge of the decision-making process, will take the necessary planning measures to keep the time between announcement and entry into force within the said timeframes. As far as administrative matters are concerned, the committee has examined 11 cases concerning appeals against decisions made by the County Administrative Board and the Swedish Transport Agency respectively. In appeal cases, it is important to keep the processing times as short as possible because the cases have often already been ongoing for a long time. However, in five of the cases, several months passed between the end of the exchange of letters on the matter and the decision of the Government. In general terms, the committee would like to stress the importance of not delaying the handling of cases unnecessarily.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-50	Madam President, I would like Then we have a review report from the KU again to debate. This is, as many have said, a bit unusual because it contains both the administrative review that is usually carried out in the autumn and the review of the government and ministers that comes from individual Members' reports. We usually come with that review in the spring, but for obvious reasons we now run it all in a jiffy. Part of the administrative review concerns how the government has handled certain so-called administrative matters within the Ministry of Infrastructure. This concerns appeals against decisions that have been taken on, among other things, water skiing, speed limits and anchoring bans. Often when the KU has examined such appeals, we have been critical of the fact that it has taken far too long for the government to reach a decision. However, this year we have not actually had such clear cases with far too long processing times in the cases that we have examined in this administrative part. On the other hand, we have this in the part relating to notified cases, and it will be discussed later in the section dealing with the handling of government matters. The next block and chapter of this debate are called Some questions about the government's relationship with the Parliament, and I would just like to comment on one issue in that package and take this in the introduction. This is a report from the Left Party about answers to a written question about the investigation of medical age assessments – or a lack of answers, perhaps one should say. Ministers have a great deal of freedom when it comes to answers to written questions, but there are still rules on how soon a question should be answered. The very point of the question institute is that Members should be able to get answers to their questions. Since it is not regulated how it should be answered, the questioner and Minister quite often have different views as to whether it is a good answer, whether it is satisfied with the answer and whether it is at all about what the question concerned. It is, as in politics, that this is the case. In this case, the KU has considered that it needs to be reminded of the importance of the Government giving answers within the regulated timeframe and that the answers contain, to the extent possible, the information requested by the Member of Parliament. We will come back to this with written questions this spring because there is a new notification on that subject. We'll have the usual review in our spring, we'll have to hope. We also have a chapter in the review entitled Certain questions about the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. This year it is very much about what ministers may or should say and not be allowed or should say. Sometimes I get the feeling that there are Members of Parliament who really do not think that ministers should be allowed to take part in the political debate at all. However, the view of the KU is that they should not only be allowed but also participate in political debates. Of course, it is important that what is said cannot be understood as attempts at government control or that the Minister has his own views on matters that are the subject of a later government decision. Of course, it is also important that what is said is correct so that it is not perceived as the Minister trying to mislead those who listen or minimize problems. Sometimes it may also be that ministers do not actually have knowledge of things they speak about, and then they have reason to learn something new from the KU's reviews. This year, the Foreign Minister has been taught that fire blankets and first aid equipment are not war material and that there is no absolute ban on the export of war material to a state that is in an armed conflict with another state. It is nice that the KU can also help for educational purposes.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-63	Madam President, I would like Much has already been said about this year's review report for obvious reasons. Nevertheless, I would like to say something about an approach that is important to me personally, and that is what is described in the state values. It is for my own part that when I am a member here I am on leave of absence from a job in the state, and these are important values for me and indeed for everyone who works in public administration throughout the country. On the basis of this value base, I would like to comment on the review in general terms. The state values are based on six principles that guide the work. It's about democracy. The people give us power and our mandates here in Parliament. It's about legality. Land will be built by law. The decisions in this House are not a contribution to a debate, but the laws that are passed here are those that apply. It is also the basis for our review in the Constitutional Committee. Objectivity is a third principle of state values. Everyone who works in the state must carry out their work objectively and impartially. That is also what is expected of us in the KU in our review. Free opinion is the next principle. These are constitutional rights which everyone has, such as the right to freedom of expression and information, but also those which may not be relevant precisely for scrutiny here, such as freedom of assembly, demonstration, freedom of association and freedom of religion. These are values that apply to everyone who works in the state, and freedom of expression applies, of course, even to ministers in the performance of their duties, as the KU has commented in slightly different ways. Respect is the fifth key word in state values. It is about respect for everyone with human rights as their starting point. The last principle – that's a total of six principles, so it won't be a much longer list – is efficiency and service. This means that cases should be handled easily, quickly and cost-effectively, but of course while maintaining legal certainty. This is also something that the KU has had reason to comment on. When it comes to democracy, legality and objectivity, the KU often leaves what we can call advice. Sometimes shortcomings are mentioned, but often it is about advice that can be taken with you in future work. We examine the reports, which all Members of Parliament can submit to the KU, based on the actual nature of the law and from a constitutional perspective rather than a party political perspective. We defend freedom of opinion by pointing out that ministers, like others, have the right to express their views. But they also need to exercise restraint in view of the fact that they have a special position in society that most others do not. The freedom of opinion for all of us depends on having access to information. It is the principle of public access that makes Swedish political debate unique in a way, but it is also the one that gives everyone the opportunity to read our reports and documents and, in fact, also examine the work of the KU and form their own opinion. Efficiency and service are essential for the whole public administration. There are administrators around municipalities, regions and state authorities who in their daily work live with the Administrative Act as the guiding principle. Of course, we expect the government to do so when dealing with administrative matters. Overall, the state values are also a stable basis for the KU when we examine the work of the ministers and the government. I would like to add my thanks to the services and colleagues who have spoken before me.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-78	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, like many Western democracies, there is a division of power. According to our constitution, it means that all power is based on the people and that the government governs the country and is accountable to the parliament. This also means that the administration of justice is guaranteed independence and that our representative and parliamentary governance is realised through municipal self-government. The fact that there is a division of power, where the various tasks of the state are divided into different bodies of power, is not very interesting in itself. It is only when these organs of power balance each other that the division of power becomes worth something in practice. The system of balancing power agencies is called in Swedish for controls and counterweights and is a foundation for sound governance. The task of ruling Sweden includes the task of deciding government matters. Every week the government makes decisions on government matters. Last year the government made decisions on 4,633 such matters. Ultimately, it does so because, according to the Constitution, the task lies with the government and because the government has to decide whether to appoint governors, governors or ambassadors or to examine certain appeals against decisions of the authorities. Decisions are often preceded by a long and thorough preparation process within the Government Office. The government's rules on the forms of government work are based on the idea that it should be limited to matters that typically require a position from the government or someone in the government. The government must therefore only examine matters that require a position from the government as a political body. For a long time, there has been an effort to relieve the government of ongoing administrative matters, so that ministers and ministries can devote time and effort to reform work, overall planning and prioritising. Thus, over a period of years, a large number of case groups in different administrative areas have been transferred from the government to authorities under the government. How, then, does the government handle the matters it has left behind or through various legal channels choose to take in and reserve the examination of? This is something that the Constitutional Committee has once again had occasion to examine in this year's review. In the debate on the handling of certain government matters, I will come back to and focus on a couple of such matters. One of the most important tasks of the Riksdag is to check how the government and the authorities do their work. The Parliament has several control tools at its disposal. The review of the Constitutional Committee is an important part of the parliament's total power of control. With this examination – thanks to the good cooperation in committee and the huge support from our office – we have been able to fulfil this task at this difficult time. We have thus taken our responsibility as part of a functioning system of controls and counterweights.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-85	Madam President, I would like As has been mentioned in the debate, all parties report on the joint results and conclusions that we have agreed in the review. As others have also mentioned, we are in agreement this year, despite the fact that it is a record year in terms of the number of missing cases. What is the purpose of our review? I get the relevant question quite often. I will go into it a little bit, because it is particularly relevant in Chapter 2 of the review report that we are now going into. It concerns the government's relationship with the Riksdag and how it exercises its mission in relation to us. The Constitutional Committee cannot impose any criminal sanctions, ask for deductions on the state ministers' fees or, if we wish to do so individually, dismiss ministers. That is not the ultimate aim of our review. As our President previously mentioned, it is a matter of political accountability on the constitutional basis. An important effect of this is that the constitutional and formal shortcomings are visible to Parliament and to anyone following the debate and media reporting. It provides more opportunities to take a stand and form a sense of what political accountability it considers necessary as a result of our scrutiny. That's where this chapter will be important. If the Riksdag is to exercise its control power, it needs transparency and information. For example, the question instrument must work. We have gathered these kinds of questions in this chapter. I would like to deal with two specific cases which are of particular interest. The first concerns the government's reporting on climate change. Climate change is a name for various government support given to local initiatives aimed at reducing our climate emissions – one of the most important tasks of our time. How the government calculates and reports its calculations of the effect of Climate Change is, of course, very important in terms of substance policy. Constitutionally, it is also important, because the government's reporting to the Riksdag according to the form of government must always comply with the principle of objectivity and the requirement of objectivity. In this review, we also focus on the reporting that has taken place in the budgets for 2016, 2017 and 2018. Then the government's provisions that it is the Riksdag that decides how the state funds are to be used will also be relevant. The Government has reported the estimated effects of Climate Change with reference to the form of government and to the Budget Act, which specifies that the Government has accountability to the Riksdag. If we are to be able to assume our responsibilities with regard to the budget, the government needs to report to us properly. That's how it's connected. We have reviewed this by asking questions to, obtaining answers and getting information from the Government Office and by ensuring the audit that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out in this area. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Riksdag, among other things, emphasised in 2016 that the government's report on measures in the field of climate change is not sufficiently transparent. It calls for both general and specific regular reporting on climate change. Such reporting has since increased, as we note in our review. In 2017, in addition to the amount of the grant, data on expected greenhouse gas emission reductions were also available. In the 2017 spring bill, a box of facts was added with a description of the expected effects of climate change. In 2018, the projected employment effects were reflected on the basis of a specific evaluation carried out. However, it was not recalled that the same evaluation also noted a number of other things, such as the fact that those employed in the Climate Region would probably have had employment without the support. Furthermore, there were no criticisms of, for example, double calculations of emission reductions or of other climate economic instruments that obviously affect the estimated effects. There was also no mention that the statistics on emissions reductions from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency used in itself were uncertain. In conclusion, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the government's reporting on Climate Change to the Riksdag has given an overly positive and one-sided view of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's reporting to the government. We in the KU are not making a different assessment, but are highlighting this in our conclusions. It is always the task of the Riksdag to ask for information and more information if you need it before making a decision. This has been done in this case, including in 2016. Therefore, we now stress that it is of the utmost importance that the reporting back to the Riksdag is factual, correct and, in this case, that the selection made by the Government of the tasks that are included in its accounts must respond to the requirement that information to the Riksdag should give a true picture. I mentioned two points. I'm going to go into the other one very briefly. We have learned from the government's anchoring and anchoring processes on Parliament's decisions in view of the EU's annual budget in the Council. I think it is a good example to see how our lessons can be of great benefit in the future. We have been able to note that the Government in question expressed itself very strongly and confidently on a future scenario. He did not think it would happen that the Council would vote against the EU's annual budget. However, this was then done. We can see that the decision itself was within the framework of the government's mandate, but it would have been relatively simple and helpful if the government had used the written consultation available to clarify the matter.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-100	Madam President, I would like In this speech, I would like to refer to the review of the actions of the ministers and the government in relation to the Parliament's budget decisions in 2019. The review can be found under 2.3 in the report of the Constitutional Committee. The notifier in this case argued that in a number of cases the government had not taken the necessary governance measures to comply with the Riksdag's budget decisions. Furthermore, it was argued that in the cases that the Government had implemented the Riksdag's budget decision, this had been done mainly in March 2019. The notifier argued that it was remarkable that the Government had reported all of the decisions made by Parliament regarding grants and commissioning authorisations that were finalized despite the fact that in some cases the Government had not taken the necessary measures to implement a budget decision. Government form 1 cap. Section 4 states that Parliament is the main representative of the people. The Parliament makes laws, decides on tax to the state and decides how the state's funds are to be used. The appropriations decided may not be used in any other way than determined by the Riksdag. The Government shall implement all parts of the Riksdag's budget decisions as a matter of urgency. In the current review matter, the committee notes that in several cases it took time for the Parliament's decision to be implemented. As an example, the mission to the Migration Agency for an increase in the number of detention places was not included in the regulation letter until March 2019. At the same time, the committee notes that there were special circumstances in the autumn of 2018. The long formation of the government and the fact that the budget proposal from the transitional government lost in the vote of the House meant that there was little time to prepare for the implementation of the budget in the Government Office. Against this background, it is understandable that the Government needed to make priorities in the implementation of the budget and that certain decisions therefore came to be missing in the December 2018 regulatory letter. Moreover, in some cases the government was bound by various circumstances that it itself could not influence. For example, in the allocation for the increase in police salaries, it is the usual wage-setting scheme for the parties to settle this among themselves after the allocation of appropriations. Even in the case of increased salaries for first teachers, the Parliament's budget decision for 2019 lacked an authorisation for the addition of these funds, so it had to wait for this. Also for the decided funds for the grant Contribution to public health and medical care required central agreements with SKL, which made it all delayed.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-105	Madam President, I would like I know I have mentioned this before, but let me mention once again the unique relationship that prevails for the Swedish Government and the Swedish Parliament in its work on European issues, something that is very close to my heart. This is something that we in the KU are once again dealing with in a review report following two notifications. One concerns the government's anchoring of Sweden's position on the EU's copyright directives. The second concerns consultation with a view to the Council decision on the EU's annual budget. These are two not entirely insignificant questions for Sweden. Reported members of parliament have clearly been concerned that the government did not comply with the form of government and the parliamentary order, which says that the government should continuously inform the Riksdag and consult on what is happening within the framework of cooperation in the European Union. The deliberations are intended to strengthen the role of committees in the work on EU issues through a substantive consultation at a political level, in which Members are given the opportunity to ask questions and comment. As discussions take place at lower levels before the issues come up at the Council meeting itself, it was considered important in the preparatory work that the Riksdag should also monitor the stages before the Council meetings, for example through discussions with the Government. This also applies to issues that come up at the Council meetings but are not intended to be decided. With the more formal meeting between the government and the EU Council, we have together a model that I would call unique to the extent that the elected representatives of Parliament are very instrumental to the government's, and Sweden's, position on EU issues. This is something we should both be proud of and defend, whether we are in government or opposition. Madam President, I would like I am not going to take the time to explain in detail the two cases notified. The whole process is described in a very educational and good way in the report for those who want to get nerded in the Swedish EU craft. But the important thing here is the conclusions of the Constitutional Committee, which both the government and the parliament should take on board, despite the fact that there is no criticism on the part of the committee. I would like to point that out. However, both the government and the committees should be aware of when the decision-making process within the EU differs from the usual one in a particular matter. If an issue is not raised at a Council meeting and is therefore not the subject of consultation, it should be pointed out. This is where the government has a special responsibility through its information powers over the Riksdag, which means that the government should have called for consultation. In the case of the government's consultation with the EU Board on the EU draft budget, which was mentioned here earlier, the committee in its wisdom believes that it is wisest of the government to anchor its decisions in the EU Board once too much again too little to follow the commonly agreed line that we have and which is characterised by a well-functioning consultation between Parliament and the government.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-112	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has examined the notifications covered by Chapter 2, where the G9, G30 and G1 are concerned, among others, to highlight some. These three cases concern the reporting of climate change, the EU's long-term budget and the EU copyright directive, and I will dwell on them. I'll start with the G9 on the Climate Scene. Here, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs looked at how the actual reporting of the Climate Act had been made to Parliament. The committee noted that the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture considered the Government's letter in 2019/ 20:MJU4 and proposed that the Parliament add the report to the file, which was also the result. The Constitutional Committee has stressed back in time the importance of proper reporting to the Riksdag, which is repeated in a number of positions this time too. With the new climate law in the back of the head, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's position can read that extensive work was going on to develop the Climate Q & A. It was also stressed that it is of the utmost importance that the reporting to Parliament is as accurate as possible. The G30 is about the EU's long-term budget. It is a question of the Union's forward planning and the future budget. Sweden's approach is and has for a long time been a sparing approach. The mandate given by the EU Board on this issue was to keep the budget down. Given past experience, much was in favour of such an outcome. But that was not the case. The proposed budget to be adopted was contrary to everything that Sweden had said and was not included in the negotiating mandate given to the government by the EU Board. That is why Sweden voted against the proposed amendment. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will touch on the G1 on the EU copyright directive, an issue that went through Parliament's corridors for a long time. It is possible to read out in the documents of the Constitutional Committee that the issue has been raised a number of times in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, but also in the EU Council. To make a long and difficult story short: what changed the conditions for this issue was that the decision was finally taken in Coreper. We need to remind ourselves of what the different decision-making processes are and how they can be affected. In this case, it changed Sweden's margin for manoeuvre. The decision was made in a way that caused Sweden to lose influence on the issue. Is that unfortunate? Yeah. Have mistakes been made? No. Madam President, I would like The reviews in this chapter have a common intersection, where the relationship between the parliament and the government is highlighted. We remind ourselves of the importance of communication between the Government and the Riksdag, but also of the role and position of committees and the opportunity to raise further questions to the EU Board when there is a need and it feels necessary.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-119	Madam President, I would like I will explain three cases in our examination under the chapter on the handling of certain government matters, etc. The first case concerns a position in the Prison Service. In the report we received to the Constitutional Committee, we were asked to examine Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson's statement on Twitter. The statement was made on 1 February 2019 and concerned that a person without a residence permit had received a security grade employment in the Prison Service. In the statement, the Government stated, among other things, that he had learned about this yesterday, i.e. in January 2019. The notification essentially claims that the statement on Twitter was misleading, as the Government had decided in December 2015 on this exception. What we have found in our review is that such government decisions are made on the basis of evidence from the authorities. It is not the case that the government examines the basis of any such decision, but rather it is something purely protocolal. It is therefore up to the authority, in this case the Prison Service, to carry out checks before submitting such decisions to the government. We note, of course, with pleasure, that after the incident, the Prison Service has updated its procedures for checking citizenship and residence and work permits prior to employment. Madam President, I would like The second case concerns the application for processing concession for Kallak in Jokkmokk municipality. We note that the procedure has taken far too long. Kallak, for those who do not know it, is an iron ore discovery. Since 2013, a company has applied for processing concession for the deposit. The process from exploration permit to mine is not a process characterized by fast pucks. It is a comprehensive procedure and should also be so, given the impact of a mine on nature and the environment. I think everyone agrees that there should be a comprehensive procedure. In order to obtain processing concessions for a deposit, the applicant must provide evidence that the deposit exists and that it pays to break. Extraction must not be inappropriate in relation to other public interests such as protected nature, communication routes or reindeer nutrition. The application includes an environmental impact assessment that is reviewed by the County Administrative Board and the Municipality. If the Bergmaster and the County Administrative Board do not agree on land use, the government will decide. That's what happened in this case. Madam President, I would like Although mining decisions may be subject to extensive review and processing, there is no reason for it to take more time than necessary. In this context, we can also mention that we have an announcement from the Riksdag regarding more effective decision-making processes. The Government has set up a special investigation to report its conclusions by 15 December 2021. Madam President, I would like Having had to wait for decisions since 2013 does not seem reasonable, as we have noted in committee. We should also remember that it is not just the applicant who is waiting for decisions. Jokkmokk municipality also does, as does Jåhkågasska Sami Village and other stakeholders. Another point we point out in this case is that parties who have cases for processing with the Government must be allowed to be involved in their cases. It appears from the material that the applicant has, on several occasions, sought contact with the Ministry of Industry with a request to present his case at a meeting, but that the Ministry has stated that a meeting is not possible because the matter concerns a forthcoming government decision and the matter is under consideration. It is not that there have been meetings between the applicant and the Government Office on the matter. But this may not have happened to the extent or extent desired. It is not unreasonable for a party that has had to wait so long to have its case settled to want a close dialogue with the Government Office in order to be able to follow the preparation of the case. The government must also ensure that the same approach applies throughout the Government Office as regards parties who wish to express their views on a case. Madam President, I would like The third and last matter I would like to comment on is perhaps the most interesting matter in principle in this year's review. This concerns the government's handling of a permit case for the expansion of a refinery in Lysekil. The big question has been whether it was in order for the government to take over the admissibility review from the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal. The answer to that question is yes. But that's not an uncomplicated yes. First of all, we should remember that the government is part of the trial chain and that the environmental code requires this in certain cases. The admissibility testing of certain activities and installations is mandatory on the government table according to the Environmental Code, and the mandatory testing has previously included refineries. It is therefore not a question of whether, as the notifier points out, the government does not hesitate to review decisions on political grounds, because, as the legislator, that is, we in Parliament, have meant that a government should be able to take over the admissibility test in decisions that are of an interventional nature, according to the environmental code. This is justified, among other things, by the fact that no one other than the government can achieve a comprehensive review with a balance of environmental protection, labour market policy and regional policy considerations, among other things. Another important part of why this particular system came about is that it was considered important that decisions on such major, interventional issues are made by a body that can demand political responsibility from. It is not possible to demand political responsibility from a court. We have also received the reply that the Government does not keep itself informed of such applications by any means other than by means of communications under Chapter 17. Section 5 of the Environmental Code or from individuals, i.e. the government is not out after such matters from our courts around Sweden. Just such a notification was received from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on 27 June 2019, in the present case after the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal issued a leave of appeal. The notification stated that circumstances had arisen at a relatively late stage in the review of the Land and Environment Court. In the committee's position, we argue that a decision by the government to reserve the examination should be taken as early as possible in the process. However, there is no formal obstacle to taking such a decision at a later stage, for example if new circumstances arise. We have also looked at the statement by the Minister for the Environment and Kilmats on the need for new investments in fossil fuels. No one jumps to surprise that a representative of the Green Party says that investing in more fossil fuel infrastructure is not sustainable. Although the State Council's statement was aimed at expressing party political views, it was made on a concrete question of admissibility. The committee has pointed out that such statements during an ongoing review by the government may give rise to doubts as to the objectivity and impartiality of the examination. The committee stresses that the principle of objectivity in the form of government applies when the government examines administrative matters.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-138	Madam President, I would like The chapter currently under discussion is entitled 'Administrative of certain government matters, etc.'. Behind that heading lies a large part of the very important craft that the government must exercise in order to lead the kingdom. These are difficult matters, in principle interesting and important matters, which are hidden behind that heading. One such case is the case concerning processing concessions in Kallak, as has been mentioned earlier. It is a complex matter, and complex cases must take time to highlight different perspectives, so that a complete basis for different decisions can be obtained and other preparatory measures can be made that sometimes need to be able to take time. But during such preparation progress must be made at all times. If no such progress is made or clear, visible efforts are made to make progress in the preparation process, it is problematic. This means that it is too long before the matter can come to a decision. As previously described, it is not an easy decision to make about such a processing concession. There are major economic interests at stake. There are major ecological interests at stake, and it is the interests of both local residents and indigenous peoples that are affected by this. It is therefore important that progress is made on such a dossier and that it does not go on for too long. The timing itself is problematic for the work and also for clarifying the future of this area. This is not just what we are looking at. We note that the timing has been unacceptable. It is also about what has been mentioned earlier about contacts between the department on the one hand and applicants on the other. In another case that we have examined, which is not this particular case, it has become clear during the hearing that it is important that applicants can have opportunities to come to meetings and develop their case. This has not been the case fully in this matter, and it also takes note of the Constitutional Committee. This is an important and interesting matter in principle that provides guidance on how to deal with a number of other similar matters that are on the government table. Another very important issue is the information management of Iraq's then Minister of Defence Najah al-al-Shammari. I'll give a brief background to the case. Najah al-al-Shammari became Minister of Defence in Iraq on 24 June 2019. On 8 October, the Swedish Embassy has a meeting with the newly appointed Iraqi Defence Minister, where it emerges, among other things, that he is a Swedish citizen. On the same day, the information comes to the Government Office. Two days later, the Government decides to submit to the Riksdag a proposal for continued defence efforts in Iraq with Swedish defence personnel working on site with training of Iraqi soldiers, among other things. Not long after that, on 8 November, the first investigation against Najah al-al-Shammari will begin. It's about a grant breach. On November 25th, investigation No. 2 on crimes against humanity will begin. Only by the end of November will the information on the citizenship of Najah al-al-Shammari, the investigations and other relevant information be sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. At that time, the Parliament has received information on three occasions relating to the proposal for an extension of the operation in Iraq. However, for obvious reasons, information relating to the Minister for Defence of Iraq has not been provided to Parliament until this comes in the media and the ministers in question are informed through the media. In order to understand the seriousness of this, one must know what happened in Iraq in spring 2019. Extensive protests took place. Demonstrations on Baghdad's streets and in other parts of the country took place, and life was required. In this there were allegations that Iraqi security forces were involved. It is also these allegations and circumstances that trigger a preliminary investigation into crimes against humanity. It was a turbulent time in Iraq, where we in Sweden had sent troops. When making an assessment of who should have what information should be kept in mind at the same time that our two nations, Sweden and Iraq, have for a long time had what one might call a demographic intertwining. Many people from Iraq live here in Sweden who are still interested in and engaged in what is happening and happening in Iraq. The fact that Iraq's Minister of Defence is a Swedish citizen becomes even more interesting in this light. It is a foreign matter that would have been important to know. With this information coming to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs two days before a decision is made on the bill, it is also something that raises questions about information within the Government Office. It is difficult to put it better than the Constitutional Committee does. I would therefore like to quote what the committee says. In view of the fact that Sweden had military personnel in Iraq and that the question of extending the mandate of the Swedish operation at the time was on the government's table, the committee wonders whether the type of information about the Iraqi Defence Minister that was received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence in October 2019 was not considered to be of such a nature that there were grounds for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to know them earlier than was the case. The committee would like to stress that the government and the responsible ministers have an overall responsibility to ensure that authorities inform the government of the current situation in their respective areas of responsibility and that the information management within the respective ministries leads to the responsible minister receiving relevant and necessary information for the performance of his duties. ..................................................... These are clear words from the Constitutional Committee that need to be taken into similar consideration in the future, including with regard to such difficult and heavy decisions. Finally, on this matter, Madam President, it is important to note that there is another circumstance that should have come to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at least on the basis of the wording contained in Chapter 10. Section 13, the form of government. This is about a preliminary investigation being initiated against the Iraqi Minister of Defence. This is certainly not something that the Embassy in Iraq or the Iraqi Defence Minister himself would have informed, but rather the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office. It may not have the responsibility of the Minister for Defence or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but we nevertheless note that information should have been provided. Finally, I would like to draw the House's attention to the matter of information about an officer who proved to have a wrong record, which he presented when he was to be employed by the Armed Forces. This was discovered by the Coast Guard after he had left the Swedish Armed Forces and started his employment there instead. This meant that the Coast Guard informed the Government Office and a security report was drawn up at the Swedish Armed Forces, which meant that it was not absolutely necessary to inform the Minister of Defence. Morgan Johansson, who was then responsible for the Coast Guard, received the information. But his successor, who took office a few days later, did not receive the same information. This is about the relationship with and credibility with other countries with which we cooperate militarily and also with intergovernmental organisations such as NATO. The fact that a person with wrong qualifications has represented Sweden against NATO, for example, is of course an embarrassment of diplomatic relevance. In these three cases, there are many important and difficult considerations to make for the future. The committee has carried out a balanced examination of this and notes that shortcomings have been found. With that, I apologise for having oversold my speaking time.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-163	Madam President, I would like In February 2018, the Government appointed a special investigator to analyse how aviation's use of sustainable biofuels could be promoted to reduce emissions. The Ministry of Environment and Energy appointed Maria Wetterstrand as investigator, although it was known that she was a board member of a company whose activities were related to the investigation. The Ministry considered that her position as a member of the Board was compatible with the current mandate. Although the company did not carry out any commercial activities at the time, the company later began to discuss a collaboration with another operator in an area closely linked to the investigation mission. About a year after the investigation started, Maria Wetterstrand also announced that she owned shares in the company, which the Ministry had not known before. Maria Wetterstrand herself said in an interview with Swedish Radio in March 2019 that her board assignments had not affected the investigation and that no one had questioned it. However, the fact that no one had questioned the investigation at that time does not mean that this will not happen at a later date when all the circumstances become known. This is confirmed by the fact that Minister of the Environment Isabella Lövin has stated that it is unfortunate that suspicion of the credibility of the investigation has been raised. The Ministry of the Environment believes in a response spromemoria that, in general, a prospective investigator should not have such commitment that the conclusions and suggestions of the investigation may have significant effects on him or her. The committee shares this view and stresses the importance of maintaining that order. Madam President, I would like The next item concerns Kallak. A mining company applied in April 2013 for a processing concession for iron ore mining in the Kallak area of Jokkmokk municipality. The permit issue has since been referred between the Bergsstatet, the County Administrative Board, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the National Antiquarie Office and the Government. At the time of the KU notification, the mining company had waited over six years for a decision. This has not been a simple matter, it is to be admitted, and it has also been made here today. There have been many different interests to take into account, and the matter has therefore been raised between different authorities. The fact that a case is extensive and complex can, of course, justify a longer processing time than more routine cases, but in the Committee's view it must be required that the timing is due to the fact that the case is, in the meantime, subject to continuous and relevant preparatory measures. In the present case, no apparent procedural measures were taken for a period of nearly three years. According to the committee, this is a time-frame that is not acceptable. The investigation also shows that the applicant has, on several occasions, sought contact with the Ministry of Industry in order to develop his case at a meeting. The Ministry has then stated that a meeting is not possible because the matter concerns a forthcoming government decision and that the matter is pending. In the hearing of the Prime Minister in another case, concerning Preem's refinery in Lysekil, the Prime Minister stated that the party has the opportunity to express its views orally. This is to ensure that everyone is treated equally. The committee notes that the Ministry's statement to representatives of the company in question does not appear to be in line with the approach set out by the Prime Minister. Madam President, I would like Preem AB applied to the Land and Environment Court at the District Court of Vänersborg on 14 December 2016 for a permit for existing and expanded operations at Preemraff in Lysekil. On 9 November 2018, the Land and Environment Court authorised the operation. The judgment was appealed to the Land and Environment Court of Appeal at the Svea Court of Appeal, which in June 2019 decided to grant leave to appeal. On 27 June 2019, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency informed the Government of Preem's application, in accordance with the Environmental Code. As a reason for the notification to the Government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency stated that circumstances arose relatively late in handling the matter. During the review, the government has not clarified what these circumstances were or how they have affected the process. The Government decided on 22 August 2019 with the support of Chapter 17. Section 3 The Environmental Code to test the admissibility of the applied activities at Preemraff. It was therefore almost three years after the application had been submitted and rather late in the authorisation process. By letter dated 28 September 2020 to the Government, Preem then withdrew its application. The committee's investigation of this matter has been made more difficult by the fact that there are differences of opinion on what Chapter 17 is. Section 3 of the Environmental Code is intended by the Government to give immediate notice of the reservation. The preparatory work on the Environmental Code states that a government review should take place at a relatively early stage of the process. At the same time, the regulation of the environmental code means that the procedure is applicable not only at first instance but also at the Land and Environment Court of Appeal and even at the Supreme Court. The committee believes, however, that a decision by the government to reserve the examination should nevertheless be taken as early as possible in the process. However, there is no formal obstacle to taking such a decision at a later stage, for example if new circumstances arise. Madam President, I would like During the course of the investigation, it has also emerged that Isabella Lövin has commented on the need for new investments in fossil fuels, while the government has prepared the question of the admissibility test. Although Isabella Lövin's statements were aimed at expressing party political views, they were made about a concrete question about the admissibility test of Preem. Such statements during an ongoing review may give rise to doubts that the government's examination of admissibility is objective and impartial. In the investigation, contacts between Preem and the Government Offices have also been reviewed. Preem's withdrawal of the application has not come to light there, but the committee nevertheless considers it appropriate to question the appropriateness of communicating with individuals in the way that has been done and underlines the importance of discreet communication in all contexts. Madam President, I would like Finally, I was going to mention something about the so - called false officer. We have received a report to the committee asking us to examine the actions of the government and responsible ministers on the basis of the information that the Government Office had received on an officer who had made a career on false merits. It was in the autumn of 2018 that the Coast Guard discovered that a person had lied about their credentials. The Coast Guard then made the assessment that the person was unfit from a safety point of view, and the person was allowed to leave his/her classified service. On 16 January 2019, the Coast Guard gave an oral presentation of the incident to an official officer of the Ministry of Justice. Shortly thereafter, the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs, who at the time was Morgan Johansson, and his State Secretary, were informed of the matter. The Ministry of Justice also informed the Ministry of Defence, but Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist was not given the information. He learned about it only in connection with an article in Dagens Nyheter on November 27 of the same year. In the Committee's view, in the light of the Coast Guard's assessment and the lack of a comprehensive picture of the matter, it would have been a natural measure that the matter was followed up in the contacts between the Ministry of Defence and the Swedish Armed Forces. If so, it can be noted afterwards that the information on the person's previous mission at NATO military headquarters, among other things, had come to the Government Office much earlier than was now the case.
i-XrtZwU8e7GTGEFVsMYSVLy	Madam President, I would like Two of this year's review cases concern the government's handling of administrative matters. The first case concerns the application for processing concession for Kallak. It is about the first state according to the mineral law that is needed, but which in itself is not enough, to be able to open a mine. The decision on Northern Kärr in the Supreme Administrative Court almost four years ago changed the conditions for examining processing concessions. This led to a referral to the Government in the cases already appealed or referred to it. There was therefore some delay in the proceedings, as the government had to ensure that these would meet the new conditions. Although these cases were promptly returned to the government after the authorities were re-opened, they have continued to remain in the Government Office – year-end, year-in-year. Kallak is one, but unfortunately by no means the only, leaven. The Constitutional Committee has noted in the review that it has soon been three years since the matter was put on the government's table for the second time. Since 29 June 2017, the Government has had to decide the Kallak case, since the authorities have been arguing among themselves about who should decide on the impact of the planned mining activities on the World Heritage Site Laponia. It is worth recalling that the Kallak Bird Road is 33 kilometres from the World Heritage Site of Laponia. So it is not in the World Heritage Site. The County Administrative Board of Norrbotten County has for almost four years been doing what it can to avoid the question in the way required by the Environmental Code, namely to make an overall assessment of the planned mining site, the conflict between national interests that exists and any impact on the World Heritage Site. The County Administrative Board believes that the trial should instead be carried out by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquarie Office. These, in turn, argue that it is up to the County Administrative Board to carry out the final examination of the matter, including in the part relating to the impact on the World Heritage Site. The tours in the case and the way in which the authorities send black-peckers to each other are almost tragicomic from a responsible perspective. You don't know whether to laugh or cry about this kind of Swedish public administration and public authority. In any case, the Bergmaster chose soon three years ago to refer the matter to the government. And there it has become, as the KU states, without any apparent procedural measures. Madam President, I would like The handling of even complex and extensive administrative cases should not be unduly delayed. According to KU, long processing times pose risks to legal certainty and mean that individuals may suffer both financial and personal losses. Furthermore, according to KU's review, a party to the case, the applicant, has not been treated in the same way as the applicant in another case which was the subject of the Government's proceedings at the time. While the Secretary of State of the Minister for Economic Affairs took part in the meeting with Preem on their application to expand the refinery in Lysekil, the same State Secretary and the Minister for Economic Affairs declined meetings with the party to the Kallak case, on the grounds that the case was being dealt with and that future government decisions were pending. The Prime Minister's answer to my question about this at the hearing in the Preem case has led the KU to conclude that there seems to be a lack of a common approach within the Government Office to the possibility for parties to administrative matters to have a meeting with the responsible ministry. For the timing, which is not acceptable, and because the Government Office treats different parties in different ways, the KU places these shortcomings on the government. No one knows today when the government will listen to the Constitutional Committee and take a decision on the Kallak issue as a matter of urgency. All we know is that, unfortunately, Kallak is far from the only concession case awaiting the government's decision. In addition to Kallak, the important Laver case in the municipality of Älvsbyn, the fluorspats discovery Kyrkberget in Storumans municipality and several cases are expected. Madam President, I would like The next administrative matter in which the KU has identified shortcomings in the government's handling concerns the matter I have already touched upon: the permit case for the expansion of the refinery in Lysekil. In this case, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency – only after not having appealed against the judgment of the Land and Environment Court and after the Land and Environment Court of Appeal granted leave to appeal in the case – chose to use its opportunity to inform the Government that the activity was of such a nature that the Government should reserve the admissibility review. In the notification, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency stated that circumstances arose. What these circumstances were, however, the KU has not been able to clarify, despite correspondence with the Government Office and hearing on the matter by both Minister for Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, and the Prime Minister. Thus, in such a situation, the government can choose whether or not to reserve the examination. It is an opportunity and a right under the environmental code, but not an obligation. In this case, as you know, the government chose to take advantage of the opportunity to reserve the examination. The preparatory work on the Environmental Code states that a government review should take place at a relatively early stage of the process. At the same time, the regulation of the environmental code means that the procedure is also applicable in the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal and even in the Supreme Court. In my opinion, these contradictory and contradictory views make it impossible to blame the government with honour for having acted wrongly when it chose to reserve the test. On the other hand, one can question the appropriateness of this assessment, at least if one wants to safeguard the independence of the judiciary which the Constitution protects and promotes. It is therefore gratifying and important that, in this case, the KU notes that the higher the case, the more caution must be exercised. The government should exercise caution in taking over the admissibility test at a late stage. However, as you know, the government did not have to settle this case, for the applicant withdrew, conveniently enough for the government, his application. For us legislators, the question remains as to whether the current regime in the environmental code is appropriate and appropriate. Finally, Madam President, the KU's review of the Kallak and Preem cases deals with and makes visible the importance of the proper functioning of the public administration and that the ideas, values and principles of the Government and Administration Act are also reflected in practice in the handling and exercise of public authority, regardless of who is responsible for it. It goes without saying that the government must comply with and apply applicable law. But the government also has a special responsibility to set an example in the public administration. If the government does not take into account the urgency requirement, the principle of objectivity or the principle of communication, why should the authorities do so? Every year another of the Parliament's supervisory bodies, Parliamentary Ombudsmen, JO, states that long processing times are a major problem that causes many individual concerns. People do not receive sickness insurance, unemployment insurance or housing allowance at the right time and end up in financial and psychological stress. In the same way that the slow management of public authorities means that individuals are being squeezed, companies, Sami villages, communities and entire municipalities are also financially affected by being placed in a decision-making limbo state and in uncertainty when the government is slow. Legal certainty is put at risk and undermined as predictability decreases. Sweden has in recent years lost its attractiveness in attracting foreign investment in exploration activities, and the government has damaged Sweden's reputation as one of Europe's leading mining nations. The damage has already been done. Now the government is taking on the situation as a matter of urgency, rather than making it worse by further passivity, and is beginning to settle these government matters.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-202	Madam President, I would like This chapter of this year's review concerns the handling of certain government matters and so on. As mentioned earlier, the KU is one of Parliament's tools for exercising control power and has a special task to review the government. By controlling how the government and its authorities do their work, we can hopefully help the government and the authorities to comply with the laws and work effectively and that the citizens have confidence in the public. Important factors for creating and maintaining the confidence of individuals in the general public are the fact that the handling of different cases takes place in a legally secure, transparent and expeditious manner. Trust is not something you just get-- it's something you deserve. By having clear guidelines and policies and following them, situations that risk undermining public confidence can be avoided. Madam President, I would like In one of this year's review cases, it has emerged that the Ministry considered that a special investigator was considered appropriate while knowing that she was a board member of a particular company. This company later began to discuss a collaboration with another company, whose activities were linked to the investigation commission. Then it became apparent that the investigator in addition to the board of directors was a shareholder of the company. It is important to safeguard the integrity and objectivity of investigations. Therefore, it is particularly important that the government investigates in the run-up to an appointment that there are no circumstances that call into question the impartiality of an investigator or the credibility of an investigation. Madam President, I would like Another of this year's cases is a permit case where a company had applied to expand a refinery. There, the Government at a relatively late stage of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was noted that the Government should reserve the admissibility test. Although there is no formal obstacle to this decision at a late stage, it is important that the government strives for a decision to reserve the examination to be taken as early as possible, so that there is no doubt that the government's review and preparation of admissibility is objective and impartial. Then it is important that the statements of the Minister under an admissibility test are careful even if the purpose is to express party political views. In this review case, it has also been established that there have been contacts between Preem and the Government Office before the company withdrew its application. The appropriateness of these contacts may be called into question, even if it has not been established that the company's withdrawal of the application has been discussed. In the contact that government representatives have with individuals, companies and other representatives, it is always important that communication is carried out in a correct and professional manner, so that it cannot be perceived as or act as a breach of trust. Madam President, I would like During the examination of the Preem case and the hearing of the Prime Minister, it appeared that there is a lack of a common approach within the Government Office regarding the possibility for parties to administrative matters to make their case at a meeting. In the permit case there was contact and meetings between Preem and the Ministry, but in the case of a mining company's application for ore mining in Kallak, the Ministry has consistently refused to attend a meeting on the grounds that the matter is pending and concerns a forthcoming government decision. And in this particular case, it seems that no procedural measures have been taken in three years. Everyone here understands that some administrative cases are more complex than others and require extensive work where a longer processing time is justified than normal, but in such cases it must be because relevant processing measures are carried out. In this case, preparations have been delayed in a way that is not acceptable and no preparatory measures have been taken. Madam President, I would like Many of this year's review matters have come to the attention of the Riksdag through our reviewing media. Without their work, the number of applications to the KU would probably be significantly lower. However, it is somewhat worrying that in some cases the Government Minister also becomes aware of relevant and needed information via the media. This raises questions about how well the communication of information to various government ministers takes place within the Government Office. For example, neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor the Minister for Defence were informed that the Iraqi Minister for Defence was a Swedish citizen and that what was said by him at the meeting at the Swedish Embassy. They were only informed about his citizenship in connection with media reporting at the end of November 2019. Given that Sweden had military personnel in Iraq and that the issue of extending the mandate of the Swedish operation at the time was on the government's table, it is a little strange that there was no reason to inform ministers of this task. Finally, I would like to thank the committee, the Bureau and the secretariat very much.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-214	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Registry for the excellent work that has been done to bring this report to fruition, as well as my colleagues in the committee, of course. This is a good job. If the report and the annexes are put together, it is over 1 100 pages. We took hold of this at the beginning of February. During the spring came the pandemic, but the work was not completely down. During the summer, not least the office worked on the basis. During the autumn we have worked so intensively. We are one of the committees that have been granted an exemption to meet physically. It has not been possible to do this through Skype and similar digital tools for various reasons. Now we're in port. On the basis of 30 notifications and the work of the autumn administrative review, we have now been able to agree on a completely unanimous report. It may sound like it's everyday food-- this is how it's been for the sixth year in a row now-- but it's not obvious. We are eight different parties who are trained and trained in being party political, but now we have the task of doing so on a strictly constitutional, legal basis. What others do with our result – if you make a political accountability or if the voters have views or positions – is not our business. We have done our work without taking those considerations into account. This has been KU's mission since 1809. At the beginning, and far into our century, this debate was called the decharge debate. It simply meant the discharge debate, and then the question was whether the ministers would be held accountable for the time their office had lasted. Now it is called a review debate, and we have other arrangements if the ministers were not to behave in a purely legal manner. There have been 30 notifications, of which 12 have led to some kind of pointing out of shortcomings, or criticism, if you want to use that expression. Is it really worth all this work? Yes, it's necessary. Even when we propose, we point to what is a good constitutional order, what is appropriate for future governments and how the KU wants to see things in the future. Of the 30 cases and the 12 deficiencies, there are three that I would like to highlight here. They're the most serious. It is not that this year we have more serious cases than otherwise – nothing comes close to the matter of the Swedish Transport Agency, which was something very special, but there are several other things in history that have been far more serious – but they are serious enough. That's enough for us to say: This is not how we want it in the long run. Two of the cases concern the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. The KU has reviewed the handling of data on Iraq's Minister of Defence. We write that we question the assessment that neither Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde nor Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist needed to be informed about the situation regarding the Iraqi Minister for Defence – this in view of the fact that Sweden actually had military personnel in Iraq and that the question of extending the mandate for the Swedish operation was on the government's table. The government and responsible ministers have an overall responsibility to ensure that authorities inform the government of the current situation in their respective areas of responsibility. Information management within each department shall result in relevant and necessary information being provided to the minister responsible. That's what the KU learned the hard way when it came to the Swedish Transport Agency. I would have liked the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to have learned that too. According to the form of government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is to be kept informed when a matter relevant to the relationship with another State or an intergovernmental organisation arises with a State authority. In the investigation case, information has come to light that should have been necessary to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs, including the initiation of an investigation into crimes against humanity against the Iraqi Minister of Defence. But there had been no intelligence. Then there's the case of the so-called false officer. He was judged by the Coast Guard as inappropriate from a safety point of view. They made a test, and they concluded that much of his CV was false. In view of the assessment that the person in question was inappropriate from a security point of view, according to the Constitutional Committee, it would have been natural for the matter to be followed up in contacts between the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, since he had previously been an officer. If the issue had been followed up, the Government Office would have received information about the person's previous mission at NATO military headquarters, among others, much earlier than in the media reporting. We are grateful for a free and independent press, but that is not the way foreign ministers and defence ministers should be informed on serious issues. According to the KU, it is reasonable that both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should be informed of such information as soon as possible. Finally, Madam President, we have the authorisation dossier on the extension of the refinery in Lysekil. The KU points out that a decision by the government to require an admissibility review should be taken as early as possible in the process. However, as we have heard other colleagues say, there is no formal obstacle to taking decisions at a later stage. There may be new circumstances that will test it in the final instance as well. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the government and the authorities must strive to raise questions about the government's ability to examine admissibility at first instance. In this type of case, there is a balance of interests that can justify a review by the government. As a rule, they should be known already when an application is lodged with a land and environment court. The committee would therefore like to stress the principle of the independence of courts according to the form of government. In view of this, the government should be careful to take over the admissibility test at a late stage. The higher the instance in which the case is dealt with, the greater the caution should be. Perhaps something more serious is that it has emerged that Minister of Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin has spoken about the need for new investments in fossil fuels while the government has prepared the question of admissibility testing. The KU points out that, during an ongoing review by the Government, such statements may give rise to doubts as to the objectivity and impartiality of the investigation. The KU points out that the principle of objectivity in the form of government applies when the government examines administrative matters, and this is to be followed by the government. KU also addresses the contacts that existed between the company in question and the Government Office before the company withdrew its application. A withdrawal of the application has not been discussed, but the form and content of the contacts and email exchange are so remarkable that the KU questions the suitability of communicating with individuals in this way. The KU underlines the importance of sensible communication in all contexts, including this.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-230	Madam President, I would like Since it is a united committee that supports this report, a great deal has already been said, particularly under Chapter 3. It is the chapter whose dossiers we have perhaps drilled and balled the most in committee because these are issues of particular importance to our constitutional order. Nevertheless, let me mention the matters under this heading which I think are of particular importance without detracting from any of the others. There are three complaints which led the committee to single out criticism of the government. It is, of course, about the government's and government's Isabella Lövin's handling of conflicts of interest and conflict of interest in connection with the investigation into instruments to promote the use of biofuels for aviation, the government's handling of an application for a processing concession for iron mining in Kallak and the government's, and in particular Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's and Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövins, dealing with the matter of permission for Preem's expansion of the refinery in Lysekil. If you are a bit dramatic, you could sum it up with the following words: conflict risk, delay of decisions, arbitrary handling and political review of court decisions. It is hardly judgments that are flattering to any government, especially in a country that has been characterised by, and honoured for centuries, being a democracy and a transparent and transparent rule of law with governance based on good governance. We in committee are, of course, expressing it in a somewhat more diplomatic way, as it should be, but we are nonetheless clear in our criticisms. When the Special Investigator in the Investigation on Instruments to Promote the Use of Biofuels for Air Transport was appointed, the Ministry of Environment and Energy knew that the person in question, Maria Wetterstrand, was a board member of a company in the same sector, but it was estimated that it was still compatible with the mission. It was then not known to the Ministry that the special investigator was also a shareholder in the company, which makes the issue even more delicate. In the replies received from the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment says that, in general, a prospective investigator should not have such commitment that the conclusions and suggestions of the investigation can have significant effects on him or her. It is a conclusion and assessment which the committee very much shares, and it stresses the importance of maintaining this. The fact that a prospective investigator is a board member or owns shares in a company that may be affected by the investigation's proposal should lead to careful consideration of the suitability of the person as an investigator, and the government has a great responsibility here. Safeguarding the integrity and objectivity of the investigative services should be a task for all involved to guard in particular. With regard to the issue of Kallak, the committee has stressed on several previous occasions the importance of not delaying administrative procedures unnecessarily, as this poses a risk to legal certainty and because individuals may very much be affected. When the government deals with and decides on administrative matters, it is of course crucial that principles of administrative law are maintained. In the Kallak case, however, we see that no apparent procedural measures were taken for almost three years. That is not acceptable. The committee also supports this unanimously. The applicant has, on several occasions, sought contact with the Ministry of Industry to present his case at a meeting, but the Ministry has said that this is not possible because the matter concerns a forthcoming government decision and a case pending. This is in relation to the fact that, during the hearing in another case, the Prime Minister said that one as a party has the opportunity to express one's views orally in order for everyone to be treated equally. We in the committee note that this has not been the case in this case, and we express criticism. The matter continues while people's lives stand still. In the Preem case, we have had three questions in one to examine: the timing of the government's decision to reserve the admissibility test, the appropriateness of Minister Isabella Lövin's statement on the need for new investments in fossil fuels, while the government prepared the issue as well as the form and perhaps above all the tone of the contacts between Preem and the Government Office. In this case, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency had only noticed at a relatively late stage that the activity in question was of such a nature that the government should reserve the admissibility test. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considered that circumstances had arisen at a relatively late stage. However, the government has still not made clear what the circumstances were or how it itself affected the process. A decision by the government to reserve the examination should be taken as early as possible in the process. As we have said before, there is no formal obstacle to taking such a decision at a later stage, for example if new circumstances arise. But the aim of the government and the authorities must be to raise questions about the government's being able to test admissibility at first instance. There are in cases of the kind in question a balance of interests that can justify a review by the government, and this should as a rule be known when an application is before the Land and Environment Court. That is why we also want to highlight the principle of the independence of the courts according to the form of government. It must not be called into question. Against this background, the government should exercise caution in taking over the admissibility test at such a late stage. We say that the higher the instance in which the case is dealt with, the more caution must be exercised. Furthermore, in the review, we have noted that Minister Isabella Lövin has commented on the need for new investments in fossil fuels while the government prepared the question of admissibility testing. As we have said in the past, ministers must obviously be allowed to participate in the political debate, but there must be caution when speaking in this capacity. The review also reveals that there have been contacts between Preem and the Government Office before the company withdrew its application. We have not seen that this withdrawal of the application has been discussed, but the form and tone of the contacts put the committee into question the advisability of communicating with individuals in the rather friendly way that has occurred. The committee therefore stresses the importance of sensible communication in all contexts. With this I would like to say thank you to the office and colleagues for, as usual, very good and interesting discussions. I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas, because Christmas will come regardless of the Corona or not.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-244	Madam President, I would like I will now present some specific matters on the basis of the values that I outlined in my introduction. Everyone in the country has high expectations of cases being handled quickly and properly in all municipalities, regions and authorities. That's what you're supposed to have. Many administrators working in these different activities have the administrative law's demands for speed, efficiency and legal certainty as a guide in their everyday work. I am sure that they expect the same, just as I do, when it comes to the administration's handling of administrative matters. In the Kallak processing concession case, the procedure has been delayed for far too long. This means legal uncertainty for all parties. Many point out that this makes it difficult for business investors. It does; I share that view. I would also like to point out that it affects the lives of local residents, including the indigenous Sami, to a great extent. They have the same right to know what their future is. It is important for me and the Green Party that everyone involved in this type of matter should be made visible when the issues are debated. I would also like to say a few words about the handling of the case concerning Preem's expansion of the Lysekil refinery. It is important that the Constitutional Committee takes the complaints of all Members of Parliament very seriously and investigates them until the members of the Committee feel that they have the basis for their assessment. A thorough investigation is something that benefits us members as well as the government and the ministers being examined. It becomes clear in the Preem case, for example, where the committee has a lot of evidence and even called experts to further deepen the judicial review. It is good that the KU, as well as the questioned minister, agrees that the government's decision to reserve the examination in such matters should be taken as early as possible in the process. However, there is no formal obstacle to taking such a decision at a later stage. This is not really strange, as it is regulated in specific laws that the government can undertake the examination at all levels of law. The government has a pronounced place in the legal chain. It is important that it is made clear, especially since these are cases that are so rare that there is no revised practice to be consulted. The committee points out that greater caution is needed later in the process the government takes on a matter. This is also how other cases and decisions that are handled in the courts are handled: There are higher and higher demands on the handling of cases the higher the level of the legal system you are in. In this review, the KU has really had to remind itself of its own willingness to examine objectively and according to what the law actually looks like. It may be that different actors have views on the law, but we as Members of Parliament know who is responsible for deciding on new laws or changing laws that we are not satisfied with how they work when they are actually to be applied. It is we who have that responsibility, and the basic idea is that a country should be built by law.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-252	Madam President, I would like A person investigating a matter to the government should avoid situations where one is suspected of acting in his/her own interest in addition to the mission. Although the person in question is very knowledgeable and well aware of the issues to be dealt with, other engagements must not result in the integrity of the investigation being compromised. This is sometimes a difficult balance, as people with great knowledge often have just experience and knowledge that can be valuable in many cases. The review of what is called G2, conflicts of interest in the Biojet for Aviation investigation, puts this particular question at its head. It focuses on a former spokesperson for the Green Party, the Greens who were investigators and, at the same time, on the board of a company that developed biofuels for, among other things, the aviation industry. When the Special Investigator was appointed for the assignment, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy knew that she was a board member of the company but decided that the assignment was compatible with being a special investigator. It was not then known to the Ministry that the special investigator also owned shares in the company. The company in question later began to discuss a collaboration with another player in an area closely linked to the investigation mission. What can be said, however, is that it was not a conflict of interest in the sense that it was a matter of decision-making. It may be mentioned that the committee or investigative services are not particularly concerned in the form of government and are part of the actual preparation of government affairs. The Prime Minister's Committee produced memos on the matter in spring 2005. It highlights such things as merit, skill and gender balance as examples on grounds that should be applicable to recruitment. The Prime Minister's Committee has also previously produced a committee manual on information and guidelines for the chairman, special investigators and committee secretaries. It points out that the Swedish departments are small compared to their counterparts in other countries, and most of the work to prepare for major reforms takes place within the committee system. The task is to produce facts, analyses and make proposals, but not to make decisions. Transparency is a matter of course, and it is also important to emphasise the responsibility of the individual to consider, when asked to conduct an investigation, whether the assignment as such can conflict with other commitments and, if so, act accordingly. However, the committee's position is that the Government also has a responsibility to ascertain to what extent the proposed investigator's mandate and financial interests can be expected to be compatible with the mandate. Otherwise, however, this does not warrant any further statement. Madam President, I would like Another matter I was going to mention is that of the G18 and the G29, where the notifiers request a review of the handling of data on Iraq's former Minister for Defence Najah al - Shammari. The flow of information within and between ministries has been highlighted on the grounds that, in this case, responsible ministers, defence and foreign ministers were only informed when the information was presented as one of the news scoops in the media. It can certainly be said, Madam President, from an outside point of view, that this is a good report for the work of the free press, but because the information has been available in embassies and in the Government Office without it being passed on to the responsible ministers, questions have arisen. The point is that the flow of information in foreign authorities is a matter that has previously been raised in this context. It should be borne in mind that this is about the largest department of the Government Office with a global organisation and the complexity that this can entail in itself. As recently as last year's review, a former cabinet secretary pointed out that he had long previously stressed the need to improve procedures and information management. As regards the current case, it can be pointed out that in the media in autumn 2019 it was reported that Iraq's former Minister of Defence was a Swedish citizen and a resident of Sweden. In spring 2019, data shall also have appeared in Iraqi media on this matter. He also applied for a residence permit in Sweden in 2009, was granted a permanent residence permit in 2011 and became a Swedish citizen in 2015. He must have been registered in a Stockholm suburb since 2012. It has also been reported that during this time he was suspected of benefit crimes, civil records crimes and crimes against humanity. Pre-investigations were carried out but were subsequently closed. In addition to written questions to the departments concerned, the committee also held hearings with both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In this context, one can also include what emerged from the hearing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is not a very unusual situation for Swedish citizens to be appointed as government posts in other countries. What attracted extra attention in this case was the fact that Sweden has, as mentioned earlier, military personnel in Iraq for the international coalition to fight Daish and that criminal suspicions also existed against the person concerned. Referring to the form of government, Chapter 10. Section 13, the head of the department in charge of foreign affairs shall be kept informed when a matter relevant to relations with another State or to an intergovernmental organisation arises with a State authority. Madam President, I would like The replies from the Government Office indicate that the information on the Iraqi Defence Minister and the content of the said embassy report were not considered to be of such a nature that there was reason to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence. In any given situation, it is a matter of assessment. Everyone has followed the current order, and ministers express confidence and trust in the departments and embassies for managing the flow of information. However, it is clear, Madam President, that after all the questions and information raised in the examination, the committee's assessment has nevertheless come to the conclusion that it had been considered justified if the information contained in embassies and ministries at an earlier stage than through media data reached the ministerial level.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-264	Madam President, I would like Several have noted that many of the reviews in this chapter are particularly serious in terms of what we have found and their number. I will focus on two of them as a complement to what my moderate colleague Erik Ottoson previously mentioned. A review concerns a temporary extension of the refinery in Lysekil. It is an administrative matter in which the Government is more directly subject to the Administrative Act on Processing, Review and Processing. Here it is a question of authorisation to make new investments. I would like to emphasise this in particular because, in the case of the exercise of authority against individuals, according to the form of government, Chapter 1. Paragraph 9 requires that everyone's equality before the law, objectivity and objectivity apply more strictly in these cases. A great deal has already been said about Preem. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise the seriousness of this very high-profile, extensive and complex dossier. There are many interesting and important details, and I have identified three things as important in principle. The first is the time. The government chose at a very late stage to reserve the opportunity to examine the matter. In 11th chapter. Section 3 The form of government stipulates the importance of the independence of courts in the administration of justice. In the case of Preem, the Government decided to take over the matter after the Government's own authority The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has chosen not to seek a review of the District Court's judgment and after the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal has chosen to take over and grant leave to appeal. This needs to be seen together. We therefore point out that the higher the case, the more caution is required on the part of the government. That is why I personally feel it is a pity that we have not been able to clarify the circumstances that have prompted this examination. The Government refers to the late submission of a notification by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency refers to late and new circumstances. What the circumstances are, we have asked the authority in writing and on orally to Isabella Lövin and the Prime Minister but have not been able to clarify. It is true that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the task of informing the government about the type of cases where one has the right to and may take over the examination. However, we have also noted that under the law, the government is not prevented from taking over cases even without notification and that, in this case, information was provided that Preem's application for a permit was also available before the notification. In the end, it is the government that independently decides to take over the permit applications and the trials of them. The government itself has not had to, or chose to, make decisions on the basis of the new circumstances. There is no closer knowledge of them. The second important principle is objectivity, objectivity and equal treatment, as set out in Chapter 1. Section 9 is the form of government. It becomes important when a minister of state decides on a matter that is up to date – which is under preparation. In this case, Isabella Lövin does so when asked about the matter. We note that it does not matter that the matter is subsequently withdrawn and closed, i.e. that decisions are never taken. For our assessment here, it does not matter, as the matter has already begun to be prepared. Of course, it would have been even more problematic if the matter had been examined and the task had been completed, and that is why criticism of this deficiency is important. This kind of statement could then serve as a basis for further examination of the matter. At least that's my assessment. The committee does not go into this; we have not had to go into it in our examination because it has never happened. The third important thing we have looked at in principle is the contacts and communication that the government has had with Preem. Following Expressen's reporting on the issue, we had reason to widen the scope of the review to include this as well. We have the right to do so, even if it is not very common for us to do so. We have then seen that we believe that the form of communication between Preem and the government, and above all the tone of it, has not been appropriate. Finally, I would like to say a few words about a review, the importance of which, for me at least, has really increased with the process of scrutiny. It concerns the review of the biojet investigation, i.e. that the government appointed an investigator to look at this. This resulted in conflicts of interest between the investigation and the investigator. This investigation is also the responsibility of Minister Isabella Lövin. The study would develop proposals for various instruments to promote the use of biofuels for aviation and did so. It also proposed support for technological investments that drive the development and production of this type of fuel. When Maria Wetterstrand was appointed Investigator, the Ministry of the Environment knew that she was a board member of a company that develops biofuels for example for industry and transport. It also develops technologies for small-scale and efficient use of this technology in more areas and more types of transport. The investigator also owned shares in the company, but the government didn't know that until late. During the year the investigation started, the company gradually developed, which is quite natural. The commission of the investigator lasted for one year, and during that year the company was granted, among other things, State resources to conduct a study on the use of the company's technology in the transformation of the biojet. A press release states that the market potential is great if you succeed in this. It is also successful in the study, and just before the study presents its conclusions, it announces that it is entering a new phase, appoints a new CEO and initiates a collaboration to start producing biofuels for aviation. The provisions of the Administrative Act concerning conflict do not apply to investigators and committee bodies in this area, but it is for the government to be responsible for and to test this. It is for the government's sake that investigations of this kind exist. It is part of the process and preparation when dealing with matters and preparing proposals for the Riksdag. Therefore, in our practice in the past, and also in this year's conclusions, we have noted that investigations to have a high value need to have a high quality of content and that the work needs to be done with great integrity. We stand by that conclusion this year, and we therefore believe that the situation that has arisen in this case is an example where the assessment that has been made has been difficult to reconcile with the integrity of the investigative services.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-279	Madam President, I would like In this speech, I would like to mention one of the more attentive reviews, namely how the government has handled data on Iraq's former Minister of Defence. This is dealt with in section 3.5 of the Constitutional Committee's report. Iraq is one of the world's most conflict-affected countries and has been at the heart of the conflicts in the region for decades. The position of the Iraqi Minister of Defence cannot therefore be compared with that of most other countries. If a Swedish citizen is elected Minister of Defence in Iraq, there is an imminent risk that Sweden may be involved in foreign policy, defence policy and international law processes in one way or another, the consequences of which we can only speculate on. This alone makes the information that a Swedish citizen is elected Minister of Defence in Iraq, one of the world's most worried countries, very important. It is so important that it should have been passed on from the embassy to ministries and ministers. This information becomes even more important as Sweden has a Swedish force in Iraq. Should Sweden end up in a situation where we face pressure of various kinds, this could in one way or another jeopardise the safety of our soldiers. Already in March 2019 there was a debate in the Iraqi media about whether it was compatible with the Iraqi Constitution that a Swedish citizen aspired in the post of Minister of Defence. Nevertheless, the Swedish Embassy did not report on this relationship. Even when the new Iraqi Minister of Defence took office during the summer, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Defence did not know about this. Only on 8 October, after the Iraqi Minister of Defence himself requested a meeting with the Swedish ambassador in Iraq, did the embassy report to the ministries that Iraq's Minister of Defence was a Swedish citizen. When the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs found out on 8 October that Iraq's Minister of Defence was a Swedish citizen – one must say – the information stayed for some reason in the departments and never reached the Minister of Defence or the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Only in connection with media reporting at the end of November 2019 were they reached by the information. The review thus raises questions about the communication of information within the Government Office to various ministers. The replies from the Government Office indicate that the information on the Iraqi Defence Minister and the content of the said embassy report were not considered to be of such a nature that there was reason to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence. At the hearings, both ministers have maintained that there was no such information that should have been passed on to them. In view of the fact that Sweden had military personnel in Iraq and that the question of extending the mandate of the Swedish operation was on the government's table, the committee questions the assessment that the type of information on the Iraqi Minister of Defence that came to the Departments in October 2019 was not of such a nature that there were reasons for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to be aware of them earlier than was now the case. The committee would like to point out that the government and responsible ministers have an overall responsibility to ensure that authorities inform the government of the current situation in their respective areas of responsibility and that the information management within the respective ministries leads to the responsible minister receiving relevant and necessary information for the performance of the government's duties. Finally, the committee would like to draw attention to the provision of Chapter 10. Section 13, the form of government. It states that the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall be kept informed when a matter relevant to relations with another State has arisen with any State authority. In the field of scrutiny, information has emerged which, in the Committee's view, is such that there was reasonable reason to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs, including the initiation of a preliminary investigation against the Iraqi Minister for Defence for crimes against humanity. Any such notification under Chapter 10. However, Section 13, the form of government has not taken place.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-287	Madam President, I would like I would like briefly to highlight the examination of the case, which in the KU language is called the G27, but which is more commonly known as the false officer. When the case of the false officer was revealed in the media, it shocked how an individual on false merits not only managed to take up employment in the Swedish Armed Forces but also for a long time was able to qualify and make a career, including on significant international posts. That the warning signal came only later when he applied for employment in another authority is also very remarkable. But that committee has to look at is the government – not the authorities. The committee notes that staff responsibility for staff and responsibility for ensuring compliance with the Security Act rests with the authority. The answers given by the government to the committee about the measures taken by the agency to prevent similar events from happening again show that both the authority and the government took it very seriously. However, the committee notes that since the Coast Guard assessed the individual as inappropriate from a safety point of view and that there was a lack of a comprehensive picture of the case when the Ministry of Defence was informed in January 2019, it would be a natural step to follow up the case in order to complete the flawed picture.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-291	Madam President, I would like We have come to Chapter 4 of this review report, Some questions about the government's responsibility for administration. Initially, it is a notification of the supervision of Casino Cosmopol by the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate, where the notifier refers to the media and to information that indicates shortcomings in the supervision of the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate. The notifier considers that the governance and follow-up of the Authority should be reviewed in the light of this. This led the committee to emphasise two things. First of all, the committee stresses the importance of fair reporting by the government on Sweden's anti-money laundering measures in the intergovernmental cooperation to which Sweden has acceded. Secondly, the committee points out that the Government Office had a meeting with government dialogue and then received information from the Lottery Inspectorate, which has not since appeared in the bill. The committee believes that this type of briefing or preparation should have been made clear. This could not be seen in the bill. Otherwise, there has been no reason for further statements by the committee. The next item included in this block is the governance of the Employment Service following the Riksdag's budget decision for 2019. In a report to the committee, the committee is asked to examine the government and in particular the former Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson and the current Minister for Labour Eva Nordmark's governance of the Employment Service. According to the notifier, this responsibility is exercised by the Government and the Government responsible mainly through the allocation of funds in the State budget and through regulatory letters. This, Madam President, is one of the elements that makes this particular report particularly interesting for the committee to follow, because it was very special conditions that were in place at this time. First of all, it must be borne in mind that we then had a transitional government that had to rule under very special circumstances. The report deals with what applies to a transitional government. The regulation letter is a tool for governance, and it is very specifically expressed what a transitional government can do and cannot do when it comes to the regulation letter. The second very special fact in this case is that it was not the transitional government's budget that was decided in this House, but the Parliament decided on another budget. This, of course, was also a factor affecting the government's control of the agency. When the committee has to assess this situation, it can be concluded that the government has complied with Parliament's decision. It would have been remarkable otherwise, and I imagine that it would have led to more complaints from Members of Parliament to the committee. The Government has followed Parliament's budget decisions, which is perfectly reasonable and self-evident. The government has also followed the order of a transitional government as regards the form of the letter of regulation. In the next step, the committee notes in this report that, from its entry into force in mid-January, the government had full responsibility for government governance. The audit notes that this is a responsibility that the government took on through a number of government dialogues and many contacts between ministries and authorities. It can also be noted that the Authority requested a grant credit to deal with the new situation and that in March 2019 the Government made a decision to grant it. The committee notes that a number of amendments to the regulatory letters were adopted after the government took office; these amendments were as many as six. In March, May, June, July, November and December there were changes in the regulatory letters regarding the government's governance of this authority. Otherwise, it can be noted that the government used a rather sharp tool in the form of a decision on a special regulation on how authorities can manage offices around the country. All of this is clear from the examination carried out by the committee on this point. On the basis of these questions, the question has also been asked whether there could still be nothing more that the government could have done. It is noted that, according to the committee, it can be discussed whether the government took the necessary decisions in spring 2019 to look at the situation that came to arise. Of course, Madam President, this can always be discussed. On the basis of and in view of the content of the report and all that I have listed, such as the number of changes in the regulations, decisions on regulations and the fact that it is otherwise obliged to comply with Parliament's decisions on the budget, it can of course be discussed if further decisions on governance could have been taken. If you do, you must of course have the order that has been discussed in this House in the past as a starting point for the following discussion, namely that the Constitutional Committee is there to monitor and monitor whether the government is complying with constitutions, constitutions and the laws and rules that exist. I believe that this is extremely important, Madam President, in that case it should be borne in mind. There is one more matter in this chapter. This is about the Crime Prevention Council's reports. A notifier has submitted a request for the committee to examine the government's governance of the Crime Prevention Council. In this respect, the committee notes that it has previously been established that a functioning state apparatus needs informal contacts between administrative authorities, the Government Office and the Government's governing function and that the Government's governing function requires the Government to monitor the Authority's activities and, if necessary, take the necessary measures from a governance perspective. What has emerged from the examination of the Crime Prevention Council does not, therefore, give rise to any statement by the committee. These are the points raised in these cases. I must thank the committee. It's been an exciting period. I have been involved for the first time in the investigation work. It has been instructive and exciting for me as a Member of Parliament. And I can only say, Madam President, that this is probably something more Members of this House would have to do. It is a good way to penetrate what we Members have to do, what rules we are subject to and how Sweden is governed. It has been very interesting and exciting. I thank the Members and, of course, the staff of the Committee on Good Cooperation.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-307	Madam President, I would like I have every reason to agree with the previous speaker on the very instructive part of sitting on the Constitutional Committee. It has been a very instructive time for me as a new Member of Parliament, so I am happy to have had this experience. There are, as has been said, three cases in this chapter 4. The first is, as we heard earlier, about Casino Cosmopol and some alleged shortcomings in Casino Cosmopol's operations. The notifier wanted the committee to review the then Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabis control and follow-up of the supervision activities of the Swedish Lotteries Inspectorate, now the Swedish Gambling Authority. The committee notes that the government's governing function includes an obligation to manage the activities of the state administration and that this means, if necessary, taking the necessary measures from a governance perspective, taking into account the autonomy of the authorities under Chapter 12. Section 2 the form of government. The Government Office received information about the shortcomings of Casino Cosmopol before a so-called government dialogue. But as we heard earlier, nothing is visible about this in the bill A reregulated gaming market, which the government decided a few months later. That is why the committee was given the opportunity to say that the government has a responsibility to ensure that preparations and government decisions result in an adequate basis for decision-making, but otherwise does not make a statement. Madam President, I would like The next issue concerns a notification requesting the committee to examine the Government's and especially former Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson's and current Minister for Labour Eva Nordmark's governance of the Employment Service following the budget decision for 2019. The Swedish Parliament's decision on the state budget for 2019 meant that the Swedish Public Employment Service's administrative appropriations were significantly reduced, while the agency received a significant reduction in funding for programme interventions for job seekers. As a result of this reduction, Arbetsförmedlingen announced the closure of approximately 130 offices and 4 500 employees were given notice of dismissal. This focus from Arbetsförmedlingen was presented at repeated meetings between Arbetsförmedlingen and the Departmental Management from December 2018 and throughout the spring. At the end of March 2019 it became clear that Arbetsförmedlingen and the minister responsible went unpaced. The Arbetsförmedlingen published a press release with the meaning, among other things, that 132 designated offices would be phased out in 2019 and 2020. A few days later, the then Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson stated in an interview with the Telegram Bureau of the Newspapers that the Swedish Public Employment Service's decision to close 132 offices was premature. According to Ylva Johansson, she had asked the Director-General of the Agency not to take such a decision, but, as she said at our hearing, the Director-General nevertheless chose to take this decision. In our position, we say that the government's governing function includes an obligation to manage the activities of the state administration and, if necessary, to take the necessary measures. The committee says that working contacts are important and that the government, with certain limitations, has the right to give instructions to authorities. As mentioned, the Swedish Public Employment Service informed the government at an early stage that the reduction in the budget for 2019 would have consequences for the agency's organisation and operations. Staff needed to be terminated and offices closed. These issues returned throughout the dialogue from December 2018 to March 2019. It has emerged from the investigation that there were differences of opinion about the process and about which offices were to be closed. The committee has considered that the government after the 2018 elections functioned as a transitional government and that this affected the conditions for governing the agency. The central point of the committee's position is that the KU says that from the decision of January 2019 onwards the government was in principle unhindered to take the government decisions it deemed necessary in relation to the authority, if the dialogue with it proved inadequate. In the committee's view, it is possible to discuss whether the government made the necessary decisions in spring 2019 to take account of the situation that arose. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The last case concerns a notification asking the KU to investigate whether the government is trying to influence the content of the Crime Prevention Council's reports so that they present a picture that is more favourable to the government than otherwise would have been the case. The committee notes that there has been no division procedure with the Government Office prior to Brå's publication of reports and that the Government Office has not submitted comments on the reports prior to publication. The KU therefore has no reason to make a statement.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-319	Madam President, I would like So this section deals with the government's responsibility for administration. As mentioned earlier, only three notifications within this block. However, since there are two of them from the Left, I would like to make a few comments, and I agree with the two notifications. The first case concerns previous supervision of Casino Cosmopol by the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate. In spring 2019, information was published in the media that there were shortcomings in the supervision of Casino Cosmopol and that the Riksdag had not received information about the deficiencies in view of the decision to re-regulate the gaming market taken by the Riksdag in spring 2018. During KU's investigation, it has emerged that the Government had received information that the Swedish Gaming Authority has found shortcomings in, among other things, Casino Cosmopol's work to combat gambling abuse but that this information was not included in the bill for a reregulated gaming market, as previously said. Although the Government received the information only 20 days before its decision on the bill, it is nevertheless important that the Riksdag receive a comprehensive basis for its decisions. During this year we have seen that preparations and decisions can be handled very quickly when needed, and it is clear that 20 days is enough time to add important information. Moreover, one of the major issues in the rescheduling of the gambling market was just how it could affect gambling abuse. The next item in this block concerns the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen after the Riksdag's budget decision for 2019. The budget decided by the Riksdag in December 2018 was based on a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats and included a substantial reduction in the money for the Swedish Public Employment Service's so-called administrative appropriations, i.e. what is used for the agency's basic activities, staff, office rentals, computers and so on. The question that the KU has looked at is whether the government has governed the authority sufficiently. Often when the KU reviews government control, it's about whether a minister has ruled too much and told an authority what to do – what we usually call ministerial government. Governance of the authorities shall be by decision of the whole government and not individual ministers. But here we focused on whether the government has ruled too little. From 18 January, when Stefan Löfven was elected Prime Minister, it was possible for the government to make the decisions it deemed necessary regarding the Employment Service if the ongoing dialogue was not sufficient. The KU lands in that it can be discussed if the government made the decisions that had been needed in spring 2019 seen to the situation that came to arise. That is precisely the discussion we are doing a little bit at the moment, and I think we are looking at it a little differently. Arbetsförmedlingen received a significantly reduced grant for 2019. To be able to keep within the money they had to allocate, the agency quickly decided to alert 4,500 employees to dismissal. It was also announced that the number of offices would be reduced. The government had continuous meetings with Arbetsförmedlingen from 6 December 2018 when it became clear that there would probably be this major reduction in the grant. When KU held a hearing with former Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, it was clear that she and the government had nothing against the dismissal of staff and the plan to close offices but that she felt that the office closure should be preceded by an impact assessment. This view was expressed to the Director-General on several occasions. At KU's review in spring 2019, we had a question about the departure of the Director General of Försäkringskassan from his mandate. At that time, the government had made eight different government decisions on the assignment to Försäkringskassan because the government was not satisfied with how the work was carried out. So we had a large authority faced with severe cuts. However, not a single government decision was taken on how the reduction of the administrative grant should be dealt with – not until the Government decided on 11 April on a general regulation that would apply to all authorities that impact assessments should be carried out before operations outside Stockholm are closed. Although the Minister and the Government thus knew that the Employment Service went on to develop which offices were to be closed without an impact assessment, no decision was made in the Government. In view of the fact that after the publication of the offices to be closed down, the Minister felt it was necessary to go out in the media and regret the decision and that the Director-General was later separated from his mandate, I think that there seemed to have been reasons for the government to take some form of governance decision in the past. The authorities shall implement the Government's policy. In this case, the government and the authority fully agreed that staff had to be terminated and that there should be a change in the number of offices. However, the latter question of the number of offices did not agree on the process of office closure. For the Minister, it was important that it was implemented in collaboration with the municipalities in particular, which are the ones who have the most knowledge of what support the unemployed need and how it can be provided. When the agency reported on which offices were to be closed, it became, to say the least, messy and uneasy in many parts of the country. The government could have mitigated this if it had been more active in using the possibility of actually making decisions, for example in new regulatory letters in spring 2019. Instead, the government transferred the entire process around the reduction of the administrative grant to the Public Employment Service itself – a process with which the government was apparently not satisfied. Finally, as several previous speakers have done, I would like to thank the committee secretariat and the members of the KU for their good cooperation. Since this is our last debate and my last speech before Christmas, I would also like to wish the President Merry Christmas.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-337	Madam President, I would like We have now come to the fifth and final chapter, and I will say a few words on certain issues relating to the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. According to the KU, ministers, like other citizens, have the right to make statements, but they may need to pay particular attention. The KU underlines the importance of government participation in the social debate. It is also reasonable for them to use the opportunities available to reach the public in different ways. Madam President, I would like One obvious starting point, however, is that the statements should be correct. This does not preclude the fact that, in debates and other political contexts, ministers can express themselves to the point or polemically. The KU also takes into account whether the Government corrects misleading or incorrect statements. Moreover, as mentioned earlier in the debate, the statements of the Government must not run the risk of being perceived as directives or conflict with the provisions on the constitutional autonomy of the authorities and courts. I shall refer in particular to two reviews in which the KU considers that there have been deficiencies in terms of statements. KU has reviewed the actions of Minister for Financial Markets and Housing Per Bolund regarding US sanctions against a bank. The government said in a statement that, according to our assessments, and what we hear, there was no question of a ban on trading US dollars for the bank. According to the committee, it is difficult to determine whether the State Council's statements on US sanctions have been correct because he has not specified the basis for these statements in more detail. However, nothing has emerged that contradicts the statements made in his statement. The Government's statement was made at the same time as Finansinspektionen investigated whether there were shortcomings in the bank's work to combat money laundering. The question is whether the statement intervened in this process with Finansinspektionen. National authorities cooperate internationally in the area of money laundering, and a statement on the outcome of US authorities' supervision of a Swedish bank may indirectly concern matters of relevance for the Swedish supervisory authority's review, that is, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. It was in danger of coming into conflict with the provision on the independence of the authorities in the form of government. At the same time, there was an interest in the Minister for the Financial Market giving an opinion. The KU stresses the importance that ministers take into account in such statements the fact that at the same time there is a national supervision similar to that of the foreign authority. There is therefore reason for some restraint also with regard to statements about the foreign authority. The review also addresses the State Council's dialogue with Swedish authorities, but any dialogue that has risked conflicting with the authorities' independence seems to have not been a matter for the committee. Madam President, I would like Minister for Energy and Digitalization Anders Ygeman's statements on rust damage to the bottom sheet of the Ringhals 2 nuclear power plant have also been reviewed. According to the review, the photographs that have been included in the Government's post on Twitter showed damage that had already been repaired, although some founder injuries persisted. The KU says that the government tweets gave a picture that was not correct. In addition to these two statements, we have examined further notifications concerning precisely statements by ministers. In some of these cases, the committee considers that the statements made by the Ministers of State have been misleading or incorrect. Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg's statement on an increase in the number of police officers did not take into account that the net increase was clearly much smaller due to the Politigheten's staff turnover. Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg has also stated that the Moderates lacked proposals against gang crime in the form of crime prevention measures, this in preparation for cross-block talks on the matter. However, a document sent to the Government Office shows that the party had put forward a number of crime prevention proposals. This statement has not been corrected. The KU notes that parts of Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde's statements on Swedish exports of armaments were incorrect. Finally, I would like to mention a statement by Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. He concluded that the number of residence permit cases on the basis of affiliation had been affected by the legislative changes on family reunification that had entered into force some six months earlier. The statistics provided by the Government provide no more than to a limited extent a basis for any conclusions on the effects of the current legislative amendment. Madam President, I would like This is what I had to say about the statements of the Government and the KU's review in this area. Like the rest, of course, I wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-353	Madam President, I would like The section we are debating at the moment is very much concerned with the statements made by the Ministers of State. As Mr Ekström mentioned in his introduction, a political lukewarm debate is rarely appreciated. That is correct, and of course the ministers have to deal with it. But they also have, in terms of statements, to relate to their origins from the materiality of the governmental form, which means that the statements of the ministers in the performance of their duties should be correct. This balance is not always easy. This chapter derives a lot from KU notifications where members of the Riksdag have considered that a minister has said something that was not entirely correct or that it has been inappropriate in some other way. It may be that we are a little too quick to speak, as in the case of the Minister for Home Affairs' statements on a proposal for action against gang crime. The committee notes that the Minister for the Interior has stated that a parliamentary party has entered into a cross-block discussion on measures against gang crime and has argued that there was not a single crime prevention proposal. However, from a document received by the Government Office, it appears that the parliamentary party had presented a document containing three such proposals. The statement was therefore not correct, as the Government has also admitted. Madam President, I would like It may also be that ministers are expected to speak on sensitive issues. The fact that ministers are expected to participate in interviews and to speak in the media is an important part of our democracy. It is assumed that they will, and it is expected that they will. This is the case with regard to the examination of the statement by Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund on American sanctions against a Swedish bank, which the chairman of the committee, Karin Enström, presented just now. The committee notes that there appears to have been no dialogue between the Government and the Swedish authorities that had risked conflicting with the independence of the authorities. Nevertheless, we believe that a certain degree of caution should be exercised with regard to these kinds of statements that may be sensitive. Madam President, I would like It can also be about statements that have been made in social media. There are great expectations here too that ministers will be on social media and express themselves on these platforms. It is important that politics is where the people are. In this context, I can mention that then Minister of Foreign Affairs Carl Bildt 2013 called for all embassies to be on Twitter or Facebook. But regardless of where the statements are made, it is of course important that the objective requirement applies. Madam President, I would like It may also be statements made by someone as party representatives, not as government representatives. After all, it is reasonable that a minister can also be a spokesperson or a party leader and must be allowed to speak on the party's policy. This is not always a simple balancing process. It can also be a statement in, for example, a party leader debate, where it is of course not a defence that a statement in a debate situation is not entirely correct. But I think we can all agree that sometimes it is human to say wrong or base our statement on a basis that contains a task that can be problematised. Ministers are also human. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say that Sweden is in a difficult parliamentary situation, where a minority government rules on a government basis that does not constitute a majority in the Swedish Parliament. But this is not the first time that we have been in such a difficult parliamentary situation. It has happened before in Swedish political history. It is part of our proportional government that it will be that way. But, Madam President, it is not always bad. Thanks to a good spirit of cooperation and compromise, the kingdom has been ruled in the past, and with this in good memory it can also be ruled in the future. Here, the Constitutional Committee plays an important role in underlining principles for the government to be tolerated by the Riksdag. To conclude, I would like to say that it is an honour to be a member of the Constitutional Committee with these colleagues in this House. It is a privilege to sit in a committee where we have high ceilings, respect for each other and an extremely knowledgeable office and that we all work according to the same principle, namely that the government, no matter what its colour, should be able to govern the kingdom in a well-functioning way in accordance with the finest we have, namely our constitutions.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-362	Madam President, I would like As my colleagues have already mentioned, the Constitutional Committee has, in the usual order, examined the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters. In this particular part of the debate on the committee's report, there are certain questions concerning the performance of the duties of the Council of State, Chapter 5, which are dealt with on the basis of the notifications made to the committee by Members of Parliament. The government governs the kingdom, but it is the parliament that is the people's main representative to whom the government is responsible. Parliament must constantly monitor the actions of the government, not only in matters of substance policy but also in terms of the forms of work and its compliance with fundamental Swedish constitutional principles. Madam President, I would like I would like to use this opportunity to touch on certain matters in the committee's scrutiny which I believe are worth a special mention. First of all, it concerns the review case 24 in section 5.7, i.e. the Prime Minister's statement on labour migration. In a debate in this House, the Prime Minister stated that the majority of immigration is labour immigration. According to the notifier, the Prime Minister's statement cannot be true. As we all know, the issue of migration is debated, both in this House and in society as a whole. This dossier shows quite clearly the delicate work that our committee is doing to arrive at our assessments. One can, of course, have views on how our authorities produce statistics and whether the intention is actually met by comparing relatives of workers as workers. However, the answer to this question is a political assessment, an assessment that occurs naturally every four years at the ballot box. The Constitutional Committee is making a constitutional assessment. Although the committee notes that no category of labour immigration is included in the statistics of the Finnish Immigration Service, according to what has emerged from the examination of this matter, there is no reason for any statement from the committee. In this context, I would also like to mention case G23, section 5.9, i.e. the statement by the Minister of Justice and Migration on the granting of residence permits on the basis of affiliation. In that case, the Government had announced on Twitter that the number of cases on family reunification had decreased sharply after the rules were made more generous, even though the critics warned that the opposite would happen. As proof, the Government showed a chart of how the number of consents on residence permits on grounds of affiliation had decreased. This statement was brought to the attention of the committee, because it was misleading. For example, the processing time for this type of case is very long, so that no effect could have been established so soon after the amendment of the law, as the committee states. Madam President, I would like We attach importance to the fact that the government is correct with its statements. As the committee mentioned in its position this time, as many times before, ministers, like other citizens, have the right to make statements in different contexts, not least in the public debate on society. However, one of the obvious starting points in these contexts is, according to the committee, that the statements should be correct. This does not, of course, exclude the fact that, in debates and other political contexts, ministers express themselves in acute or even polemic terms. So the message to the ministers, both present and future, is that they undertake to be truthful, whether they communicate via Twitter, in the Chamber or in any other way. It is important that we can maintain confidence in Swedish governance and not fall into behaviour that undermines the legitimacy of democracy.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-372	Madam President, I would like As has been mentioned, this year's reviews contain a series of notifications concerning statements by ministers in different debate situations, on television or on social media. In a historical perspective, today's climate of debate may appear more intense and faster than ever before. Anyone who has read, for example, Tage Erlander's memoirs knows that it was an extremely unusual situation in the 50's and 60's that the government even called a press conference. Today, urgent press conferences are an integral part of political work, both for government and for opposition. In addition to this, there is an ongoing debate in social media such as Twitter and Facebook and a series of television debates. As far as speed and speed are concerned, the political representative is subject to far different and higher demands than has probably never been the case in previous eras. At the same time, this also provides a completely different opportunity for the interested citizen to follow the various events of the debate more or less daily. The thoughtfulness and reasoning that may sometimes be needed to put things into context may, at least for those who follow things from a distance, sometimes be lost for reasons of space or time. Madam President, I would like What I want to mention in this speech is how the KU has handled the reports of the statements by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior on the number of police officers and the statement by the Minister of Energy on rust damage at Ringhals. In the first notification, the KU was requested to examine the statement by the Minister of Finance in the media on 18 September 2019 and the Minister of Interior's response to a written question in the Riksdag about the increase in the number of police officers. A second notification takes note of the statement by the Minister for the Interior in SVT's News on 21 January 2020. The notification states that the net increase would be lower than what was communicated by the ministers at present. The Committee's position points out that the statistical data from the Government Office on the basis of which the statement was made on 21 January by the Minister for the Interior was the net increase in terms of the turnover of the Political Authority's staff less than that which emerged at the time of the statement. With regard to the notification of the statement by the Minister of Energy and Digitalisation on rust damage at Ringhals, reference is made to two Twitter messages on 17 and 29 December 2019 respectively, in which it was claimed that rust was found in the reactor closure, which was also illustrated by photographs of the same. The answers to the questions asked, Madam President, show that the photographs recorded on Twitter messages on 17 and 29 December respectively show damage to the bottom plate of the Ringhals 2 nuclear reactor, which had been repaired at the time of publication. However, the matter is that the corrosion attacks that were the founders of these still persisted. But because the photos showed damage that had been repaired and that was more serious than the remaining damage, a picture of Twitter was given that was not entirely correct. The audit has also been based on a memorandum established within the Ministry of Infrastructure. The committee's position takes note of the importance of statements based precisely on accurate data but, at the same time, stresses that this does not exclude the possibility for ministers in debates and other political contexts to express themselves to the point or polemic. It can in itself be a balancing process to consider. However, the rest of the review does not require any specific opinion from the KU.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-382	Madam President, I would like At the end of May 2020, the Government commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to develop a national operational plan for future vaccination against the disease covid-19. Now vaccinations are underway against covid ‐ l9. This is the light in the tunnel for many inhabitants and for the country. There are now a number of vaccines coming into Sweden after they have been authorised by the European Medicines Agency. When vaccination starts, 21 regions should vaccinate their inhabitants. Due to the performance of testing and detection in the regions and the fact that vaccination of residents against the annual influenza has not worked without problems in some regions, there is a legitimate concern about how vaccination against covid-l9 should work. That's why a vaccination register is so important. The legislative amendments proposed by the committee extend the scope of the law on registers of national vaccination programmes to vaccinations against the disease covid-19. Furthermore, this means that the healthcare provider responsible for vaccination against covid-19 should also provide information on the vaccination dose number to the vaccination register. This is needed to monitor the vaccinations and their spread. But we from the Left want a little more. Opinions show that the Swedish Public Health Agency believes that an extension of the content of the legislation is necessary for a more effective use of the vaccination register. The interim report from the Swedish Public Health Agency proposes that an information on the health unit should be included in the Act on registers of national vaccination programmes. The current legislation only allows information on healthcare providers to be entered in the register. A healthcare provider can be the state, county council, municipality, company or individual trader. We believe that this is too rough a measure; we need a little more detail. It can be a large region, on the surface and in terms of population, but also a small, private company. It can also be a large private group, with activities spread across the country. Where vaccinations are carried out is of great importance in order to assess the future spread risk of the pandemic, the immunity situation and so on. The proposal from the Public Health Agency is not included in the Government proposal. In addition, the registration currently made by health care providers takes place in different systems. This is inefficient and costly. Many of the actions taken against covid-19 have been delayed due to the number of stakeholders involved. This helps to make it more difficult – it is simply too many chefs about the soup. The Swedish Public Health Agency writes in its referral where it would have good help from an extended register where we can monitor and analyse the protection against several infectious diseases that can be prevented by vaccination, and through it analyse the consequences of the development and evaluate the effects of vaccinations. ..................................................... The left-wing party notes that it is of great importance that the vaccination register should be broadened. We want the government to be tasked with proposing to Parliament that information on all vaccination against pandemics be recorded as a matter of urgency. In the long term, we want all vaccinations to be registered. This would be a good proactive work, we think. That is why I am lifting reservation l – for the sake of the vaccinated and for the sake of public health, now and in the future.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-391	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to be able to talk about a vaccine, because when we do, we know that there is also hope of minimizing the infection and the risk of covid-19. So it is a positive situation when we stand here today with a legislative proposal dealing with a vaccine register. This means that we are quite close to the time when vaccinations can be offered to the entire population. We also see how the business community shares the same hope – that vaccinations will enable you to keep your company and that jobs will not be lost without us being able to return to the more ordinary life as soon as possible. It is clear that this is a hope we all share. But before we get there, a lot of work is needed on vaccinations, both preparation and implementation. That is what we are facing today. I would like to start by saying that it is thanks to the research that today we can discuss a vaccine – not only the research that started in January or February this year because the Corona virus had appeared but also the many years of basic research. Perhaps it has been basic research for ten or twenty years now that enables rapid research this year to produce the vaccine we are discussing today. It is therefore necessary to remind ourselves of the importance of research for good health and good public health. We constantly need to work with good conditions for research, also to be prepared on the day when there will be completely new contagions that we have not seen before. Some may be concerned that things are moving quickly. I understand that. It is fast, but it is important to stress that the trials that are being carried out are as thorough as for all vaccines. What has gone very quickly is research until the various vaccine candidates have been included, and it has been made possible by many years of basic research in the past. But the trials that are being carried out now are as thorough as ever, and they are necessary for us to be able to eventually offer vaccines to the population. The proposal before us today concerns a register – that we should be able to follow up vaccinations against covid-19 and that we should get them into a national vaccine register. I am pleased that the committee agrees that the Government's proposals are necessary. However, the Left Party has made a follow-up motion with two motions, which are also important. Firstly, there is a need to register the care unit that has given the vaccination. After the consultation, the government can conclude that this would be desirable, but that we cannot introduce it at present because we do not have a clear definition of the concept of health unit. That is why we cannot now include this in the legislation. However, the committee states that it is urgent that the government continue to work on this and urgently returns with that part so that we eventually get the concept of health unit into the register and can follow it. The second motion by the Left Party is that we should be able to include all vaccinations in pandemics. This is also a good and important proposal. The committee feels that this too is urgent and writes in its text that the government should return as soon as possible with those parts. However, we reject the motions themselves, but the committee agrees that these two parts are needed in order for us to have an adequate register of vaccines. The Christian Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal, but I would nevertheless like to highlight a few things that are essential in this context. Vaccinations again entail a need for effective cooperation and responsibility between the regions and the state, that is, both the authorities and the government. We know that the testing has hacked some because sometimes one, sometimes the other party has fallen. We have neither the advice nor the time for vaccinations of this kind. We know that the regions have made good use of time to prepare themselves, so today they are dealing with a number of issues and things that need to be sorted out. It is my hope that both the authorities and the government will do everything they can to correct the questions so that we know what conditions and guidelines apply and what legal aspects exist in relation to vaccinations. Here it is necessary that we go along with each other, that we listen to each other and that everyone takes their responsibility to correct what needs to be corrected. Part of this is about communication – being able to communicate with all of us residents who are to be offered the vaccine. What is the case, under what conditions is it to be done and how is it to be done? Can we get a common communication that will be good but also find the needs that will be of special extra and enhanced information to certain groups and certain parts of society? This must be done in the best possible way so that everyone is reached by the vaccine offer. Finally – tomorrow, the Swedish Medical Products Agency, the Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and the Government's vaccine coordinator will come to the Social Affairs Committee. The idea is that the Riksdag should be given broad information about the situation, but also that we should be able to discover if there is something we need to change or improve. In that case, there is reason for the Riksdag to return to those parts. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-407	Madam President, I would like We are in a difficult time, mildly spoken. At present, Sweden is about 7,000 deaths, and we see how health care is becoming increasingly burdened and cluttered and how the iva sites are being filled up at an increasingly rapid pace. It is clear that this is a difficult time for us politicians, because in our soul there is the will, Madam President, to debate, to discuss and to make responsible. I would like to say that that time is not really now. Now is the time for cohesion and cooperation for the sake of Sweden and all the sick, and for those who are at risk of getting sick. There is a tendency right now in the discussion to point fingers. It is either the regions, the municipalities or any government authority that has not done its job. I am absolutely convinced that when we evaluate this with the help of the Corona Commission, we will eventually find a long series of errors that have been committed and a long series of wrong decisions that have been taken. But I hope that when we do the evaluation we will also be able to see what has been done properly. I know many in the departments who have worked hard to produce new legislation and new forms of support for those parts of our country that have been hit hard by the pandemic. I know many of my former colleagues in the regions who are working hard to ensure that health care works. Not least when it comes to doubling the number of intensive care places, it is absolutely amazing what has happened in Sweden for a very short time. Many at municipal level also deserve praise. Now we finally get a vaccine. I can't believe it! This disease was properly detected and diagnosed on January 7, and now we have a vaccine. I would like to express my thanks to the pharmaceutical industry, which, in my view, has made a fantastic effort to produce a working vaccine that we should be able to start using now. I don't know how many people looked at Agenda last night. There three people who are responsible for the vaccination were interviewed around our country. I think there is reason to reproduce what Mr Jönsson said. Sometimes I am accused of being very much Stockholmers, Madam President. Alf Jönsson is responsible for health care in Skåne. He said in very broad Skåne that there are some things to sort out. We need to negotiate with the government how much compensation we're going to get, but of course we're going to fix this, he said. We managed to vaccinate a lot of people against swine flu. We arrange to vaccinate people against the recurring seasonal flu. It is clear that the regions will arrange for vaccination to work. I am convinced that Alf Jönsson is right. It'll work. Then there will be a lot of challenges and worries. We are faced with the concern that the production capacity of industry may not be large enough to produce vaccines at the rate we would like. There will be a need for cryo-freezes and order because people will be vaccinated several times. We will also have to deal with the situation of some citizens having doubts about vaccinations. There are many who are afraid of what happened in connection with swine flu and the side effects that came then. That is precisely why it is so important that there is order in the vaccination registers and other things and that the new vaccines coming against covid ‐ 19 are entered in the registers. We will get things right thanks to the change in legislation that is now on the table of this House. Then there are things that one could wish for. I wish we could have a registration of the health unit. I think it's a reasonable requirement. But I think it is more important that we get vaccinations started at the beginning of January than that we sit down and have a long way to go what a health unit is, because it is not defined and is therefore not quite clear. And it takes quite a long time to sort out such issues. Get started with the vaccinations as soon as possible, but do so safely so that we do not jeopardise the confidence of the population in our vaccination system and our country. This is gonna work. I am very pleased with the consensus that exists on this matter. It is the case that all parties in the committee have supported this proposal. There are some motions for which we have a great deal of sympathy but whose proposals are not feasible at the moment. It has rarely been possible to feel joy in connection with this pandemic, but for once there is actually something to be happy about. I am pleased to support the committee's proposal on this matter.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-422	Madam President, I would like We are on our way to a mass vaccination whose like Sweden has never experienced before. It could be the light in the tunnel, as we heard earlier. But it can also be a long and arduous journey left. The Parliament shall decide on the follow-up of vaccinations against covid-19. As we Moderates in the Committee on Social Affairs state in our special opinion, we support the proposals in the proposal, but at the same time we would like to point out that if vaccinations against covid-19 were included in the national vaccination programmes, the proposed legislative amendment would not have been necessary. It is good that the Act contains provisions on what information should be provided in the register, how they should be processed, who should provide the data and that the healthcare provider who has been responsible for vaccination against covid-19 should also provide information about the vaccination dose number to the vaccination register. This helps to allow effective and effective follow-up of vaccination coverage, vaccine quality, efficacy and safety of the vaccine. But at the same time, Madam President, once we all stand there to get the shot in the arm, it is only the last step of a huge logistical challenge. In order to be able to follow up vaccinations against covid-19, they must have been able to be carried out. This requires a well thought-out national action plan with a logistics plan for who will do what and who will fund it. There's nothing wrong with the good will. The problem we want to express our concern about is that it must not be like this spring with the testing. Mass vaccination places completely new demands on government governance than previous vaccination campaigns. It is crucial for us to succeed in vaccination that the issue of responsibility is made clear. We miss that, Madam President.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-428	Madam President, I would like Society is being tested hard in these times, and our eyes are once again turned toward health care and care. We see healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, domestic staff and many more working hard in a situation that is now getting worse, and of course we do so with concern and with a quiet prayer that health care will also this time cope with the pressures it is facing. But there's a light in the dark that we've all hoped for, and that's the vaccine against covid-19. That is to some extent what this debate should be about. Madam President, I would like This proposal proposes to extend the scope of the law on registers of national vaccination programmes to include vaccinations against the disease covid-19. The title of the law is proposed for this reason to be amended to include registers of national vaccination programmes, etc. m. The Act contains, among other things, provisions on which information should be provided to the register, how it may be processed and who should provide it. Other amendments to the law are also proposed, including that the healthcare provider responsible for vaccination against covid-19 should also provide information on the dose number of the vaccination to the vaccination register. The proposals involve a more effective and effective follow-up of vaccination coverage, vaccine quality, efficacy and safety of the vaccine. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Madam President, I would like It is good that we are now getting this in place as soon as possible, and that is something that we Swedish democrats support. It should be borne in mind that even when a vaccine is approved, further studies and long-term follow-up with a focus on both efficacy and safety profiles are required to clarify if there are more rare side effects to the vaccine. On this basis, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-432	Madam President, I would like It is indeed a difficult time in which we live, not only in Sweden but throughout the world. Several previous speakers have pointed out something that could be the light in the tunnel, that we now see that one of the large vaccines can begin to roll out. In all probability, they will also come to Sweden. Madam President, I would like I must admit that I still have a great deal of anxiety. Vaccines are one thing. Vaccination is something completely different. Most people have the last pandemic in fresh memory. Then we would also mass-vaccination large parts of the Swedish people. Sometimes we forget what a huge problem we had in Sweden in connection with that mass vaccination, especially with logistics, but also with who would vaccinate and where it would be vaccinated. There were even situations where there was a row in the vaccination queues, because they wanted to get there fast enough. It was much easier then anyway. It was a pandemic that was not yet in the country, and we were able to squeeze people together. Now we are faced with something quite different: an infectious disease that exists in the country. And we're going to vaccinate eight, maybe nine million people. We will also remember what happened last spring, when we would quickly get the testing started in Sweden. WHO had urged us: What you are doing- test, test, test! But in Sweden it did not get started. In all our neighbouring countries, it worked much better. Here it was, again, because of a government that said: This is not our responsibility. It is the responsibility of the regions. And the regions said: This is not our responsibility unless you send us money. Madam President, I would like I'm worried about this. How are we supposed to deal with the situation? It takes a lot of work. In particular, national leadership is needed. Although it is formally the regions that are responsible, we must have a government that takes command, points with all its hands and ensures that the financial resources are available and that the necessary legislative changes are made. What we are debating today and will decide on Wednesday is the national vaccination register. It's an incredibly important part when you start vaccinating. We all remember what happened during vaccination against swine flu. Suddenly there was a very serious side effect, narcolepsy. It affected several hundred people, especially young people. However, since the vaccinations were not registered in the national vaccination register, it was not possible to cross-check registers. It wasn't found fast enough. That is why the then government said that the legislation needs to be reviewed, so that the vaccination next time Sweden encounters a pandemic must be included in the national vaccination register. We even had a discussion on this in this House in 2013, when we decided on the new national vaccination strategy. But then nothing happened. The year 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 passed. And nothing happened. We did not get a legislative amendment in place because the government did not deliver the proposal to the House. That is why we are here today debating something that should have been ready by 2014/2015. It should already have been amended in such a way that the national vaccination register, which today includes what is known as child vaccinations, would obviously include pandemic vaccinations and other vaccinations as well. Now you don't have time to do it. Let's make a decision about this. It would have been much better if we had been able to make that decision in this House in 2015 or 2016. Then we would have been better equipped to find side effects very quickly. I therefore, on behalf of the Centre Party, support the committee's proposal in the report. It is obvious to do so. However, it is a complex situation that we are facing. What makes it even more difficult is that it is a health database, a health data register. So it's not a journal system. This is not where the individual's vaccinations are recorded. This is done in something called Svevac, which is run by Inera, i.e. Sweden's Municipalities and Regions. That register, where I as an individual can follow what vaccinations I have received, will be closed next summer. So here we are in the midst of a pandemic. What we can do quickly is make sure that in the national vaccination register we press the information we have to find possible side effects. But we're going to miss a medical record where, as a patient, as a citizen, I can see what vaccines I've been taking. There is a pilot study that the government has now initiated and has delivered. But we are very far from a working replacement for what is called Svevac. It is very serious in this situation. Like many others, I am pleased that we can, in principle, make this decision by consensus, that we are rigging this. It will strengthen citizens' confidence now that mass vaccination is to roll out. But I have a lot to wish for in terms of how the whole situation has been handled.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-444	Madam President, I would like Dag Larsson said something very important: It's not time to keep pointing fingers at each other. Everyone who works with this pandemic, at all levels, is doing their very best. But due to a lack of knowledge and experience, mistakes can be made. Let's learn from the errors. But now it is about coordinating our resources, about good cooperation, teamwork and good leadership. I am pleased that we can now take the decision on the register. Liberals would like it to be a broader register. But now it's urgent. The industry has made fantastic efforts, as well as the European Medicines Agency and all those who have put up in clinical trials so that we can get vaccines as soon as possible. Three promising ones are now on their way. Then it is important that the vaccination register is statutory. In practice, it is a problem, as Anders W Jonsson said, to make it work on site, because Inera's register should be closed. It's urgent to solve this. I do not understand what the E-Health Agency has done in this context, but I hope that when we meet the authorities shortly, the Social Affairs Committee will be informed of the state of play regarding the register itself. It must be easy to register the vaccinations. There should not be a lot of paperwork to be transferred to the IT systems. But it is also necessary to get reports on how things go and on what side effects may arise. These are reports that may come from doctors, nurses, dentists and pharmacists, but not least from the general public. It is quite complicated to report side effects. It should be done online. But in the generation that is the first to be vaccinated, many do not have access to the network. They need to be given good information on how to easily report complications that may arise. This is important so that we do not get the situation we got with narcolepsy and the vaccine against swine flu. There must also be competence at the Swedish Medical Products Agency to analyse the side effects. And the Swedish Data Protection Authority must not suddenly put obstacles in the way of merging the information in the register with different health databases. Unfortunately, I have my own experience that there may be obstacles that can delay analysis. There is therefore much to be done in the chain: from the approval of the vaccines to getting people to be vaccinated and the entire organisation, to make records and adverse reactions reporting work and to get analyses as quickly as possible. There is also a need to cooperate with the international reporting of adverse reactions that is going on everywhere. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-451	Madam President, I would like It feels great to stand here today and talk about the coming vaccine, which will help us get out of the worst time of the coronapndemine. There are at least two major medical revolutions that we owe today to the fact that many lives are saved from the coronapdemine in our hospitals. One is antibiotics invented in 1928 by Alexander Fleming. We can see that antibiotic resistance is increasing. That is why we must reduce the use of antibiotics. But it is really needed to cure severe diseases, such as pneumonia. The second is the vaccine invented in 1796 by Edward Jenner. He came up with a smallpox vaccine. And smallpox, my friends, was completely eradicated in the world in 1980. We see good access to vaccines in high-income and middle-income countries. It is a major problem in the world's low-income countries. That is why, at this time, we must continue to be supportive of those living in developing countries and ensure that they too receive vaccines. Madam President, I would like There is an obstacle to vaccination, namely the disinformation disseminated in society. There's a big anti-vaccination movement. It is extremely important that we all listen to the facts. Vaccinations save lives. We need more vaccinations, not less. Madam President, I would like It is now important that we stick together and that we work together in this difficult time. There will be a need for good coordination between the national level, regions and municipalities. We all have to help each other. It is not time to point the finger at each other, as many speakers before me have mentioned, but it is a time for responsibility. We will work together and make the best of the situation. Our citizens will have access to the vaccine, and we will take responsibility for its coming into place. I am pleased that, together, we will adopt the proposal in the report and that vaccination is included in the national vaccination programme. It is very important that you can follow the various vaccinations. The Left Party has written a motion that I think is good, but as many others today have pointed out, we do not really have time to investigate what a health unit is and so on. We need to get started with the vaccination as soon as we can. I therefore support the report and call for the motion to be rejected.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-457	Madam President, I would like During a pandemic, restrictions and restrictions are necessary to prevent the infection. But when we do, it always has consequences. Positive ones mean that we can stop the infection by the way we socialize and how we work. But it also has consequences for those who may lose their entire income when, for example, you lose all customers. You may even have to close your shop or restaurant. All the measures we take have advantages and disadvantages. The law we are discussing today, which is to be extended, makes it clear, I think, that the measures should not go further than necessary, as the government writes in several places. That is an important point to stress. When we are discussing today an extension of the law on temporary disease control measures at catering points, the measures must have a balance. They must not go beyond what is necessary. As regards the law that came into force this summer, the catering establishments have done a good job. The municipalities have also done so, which was very quickly assigned to carry out supervision and follow this. I am impressed by what has been achieved by both restaurants and municipalities during this six-month period. They've been dealing with a very difficult situation. The guidelines have not been clear, but they have had a little bit of a go-ahead, which I will come back to. However, they have handled the situation in the best possible way, based on the situation we are in. It is good that the government proposes that the law be extended. It is now proposed to apply until May 2021. It is possible that an extension will be needed. The Christian Democrats have chosen to write a follow-up motion and add a few more aspects. I want to lift up some of them. There are regulations and general advice on how to handle this, but they are not clear enough. We discussed this before the law came into being this summer. However, during the autumn we have been able to see that there is a need for clarification. We therefore propose that the government should work on this and clarify what general advice and guidelines the authorities have. They should be looked at together with the relevant professional organisations. The professional organisations operating here have members who have tried this during the autumn and who know what is working and what is not working. They know what guidelines this should contain. Of course, the conversation also needs to involve the municipalities and their employees who have worked with supervision. We believe that the next six months, or at least the next five months, could be even better if we obey our request to continue working on the guidelines in a more in-depth way. In addition, it would probably be more effective. We would like it to be possible to make local and regional adjustments depending on the current pandemic and infection situation. You get greater confidence in the measures if they are linked to what it looks like right now in a certain place. Today we have been met by the report that the infection situation in Helsingborg is very difficult. There they discuss what else they need to do. Every time something like this happens, you should be able to take a little more action, alongside the national rules that exist. Conversely, if the infection gives in and another situation emerges, you can back down in the rules and perhaps manage a little more than you have done before. We believe that in the future there would be a greater need for such interaction between rules. Perhaps the upcoming Pandemic Act will help us find the right forms for it. We believe that it is necessary that we work better with restrictions and recommendations, also linked to financial compensation, so that we get a regulatory framework that gives confidence and works for everyone concerned. On the basis of the proposal on the table, we think the proposal is good, but we still have a few requests. I would like to highlight those contained in paragraph 2 to the examination of this House. It's about reservation 1. It is about these guidelines and that we need a broader consensus. We need to deepen this so that we know that supervision works well. I would like to conclude by saying that the case shows that both businesses and municipalities can deal with a very difficult situation quite quickly. We legislators need to do our part to ensure that they can do this in the best possible way. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-467	Madam President, I would like We are in an extremely serious situation. We're in the middle of a pandemic that none of us have ever experienced before. The spread of infection is increasing dramatically in some places. Just as Acko Ankarberg just said, it is right now terrible in my hometown of Helsingborg. Last Friday, 47 000 text messages were sent in a mass mailing to alert 47 000 recipients in central Helsingborg to the contamination situation. It contained a link to a site that was about to crash, since many were simultaneously searching for this information. While we must keep our heads cool, we must not forget to have a warm heart. It's a deadly pandemic. Many have lost loved ones. Many have been ill and have not yet recovered. The economic damage is also great. In Sweden alone, hundreds of thousands of people are laid off. Thousands of companies, almost entire industries, are threatened with bankruptcy. The Parliament is now to decide to extend the temporary law on temporary disease control measures at serving points. Just as last summer, when the temporary law was up for decision for the first time, we believe that there is a legitimate need to supplement the current legislation in order for the necessary measures to be taken in the right time and place. We Moderates support the extension of the time of the law, but we see shortcomings that we believe need to be addressed. We still believe that the application would have worked better if the government's proposal had contained the measures contained in our accompanying motion. Allow me to raise some of them, Madam President. The Moderates believe that the application of the law would have worked better if the government had followed up the fact that the infectious disease doctor provides adequate assistance to the municipalities, rules on procedures that may be required to reduce the spread of infection in catering centres have been developed in close dialogue with traders, professional organisations and municipalities, if it has been established which assessment bases are to be used for supervision and if the government has ensured that the municipalities receive compensation for the increased costs of supervision. Madam President, I would like In order to make the supervision process easier, clearer and more efficient, the Moderates have agreed to deviate from the principle of responsibility by temporarily transferring responsibility for decisions in individual cases from the pathologist to the municipality. The Government states that the proposal aims to facilitate the supervision of all actors involved. This requires the full use and utilisation of the disease control doctor's expertise. As an example, the municipality of Gothenburg pointed out in its referral that the proposal is unclear as to what expectations the municipalities may have on the availability of the infectious pathologist. We share this view, not least in the light of the description of the disease doctor's high workload as described by the government in the bill. There is a risk that the infectious pathologist will not be available to the municipalities in such a way that the municipalities will be able to supervise the service points in an effective and legally secure manner in accordance with the Government's proposal. We therefore want the government to take this very seriously and to ensure the competence of the infectious pathologist, with availability and responsibility, by monitoring the way in which the municipalities carry out supervision. Madam President, I would like The Government also states in the bill that it is more appropriate that these procedures are regulated by the Public Health Authority's regulations and not by law. Nevertheless, a statutory requirement is being proposed, which may be seen as somewhat contradictory. If a requirement for routines is to be introduced in law, the Moderates' view is that it should be made clearer in the preparatory work what requirements are actually made for the operations. We find it regrettable that the government has not done this. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it is essential that the rules on procedures are as clear as possible, so that traders know what basic disease control measures are to be taken. This is a point of view which has been made by several consultation bodies and which remains valid. The regulations on procedures should therefore continue to be developed in close dialogue with the operators of catering facilities, with relevant professional organisations and with the municipalities to ensure that the law is predictable for traders. You should keep your head cool and at the same time have a warm heart. I am in favour of reservation 1 and otherwise of the proposal and the proposal contained in the report.
i-6H2rzMyTD26Cv9c4JDzGSX	Madam President, I would like Today we have a position on the proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs' report. The Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2020, is limited in time and is valid until the end of 2020. As the pandemic is now proceeding with full force, it is important that the temporary law be extended. It is therefore proposed that the law should continue to apply until the end of May 2021. This is something that we Swedish democrats support. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats have two reservations in this report because we share several of the Christian Democrats' assessments, including the need for clarification of both the grounds for assessment in terms of supervision and rules on procedures. The current regulations and general advice on how to prevent contamination of covid-19 in restaurants and cafes are not completely clear. Let me give just one example, about which I have read: The number of visitors in one company at a table, a bar or the like may be a maximum of eight. You might find it relatively easy at a table to see if there are a maximum of eight people. But at a long bar or similar, it is not as easy to see who is part of a larger company. There may be problems with this lack of clarity for both guests and restaurant owners, but also for the inspectors responsible for supervision. Therefore, the Public Health Authority should be given the task of clarifying these regulations and general advice to prevent covid-19 infection in restaurants and cafés – both to clarify to traders the specific disease protection measures to be taken and to clarify to municipalities the assessment criteria to be used for supervision. Madam President, I would like Many food inspectors who inspect crowds in restaurants and restaurants report that they have been exposed to threats and hatred at work. According to a recent study, several say that the working environment has deteriorated significantly during the pandemic. Testimonies from the inspectors are about everything from filming with mobile cameras by guests in the outings to direct oral threats from both guests and restaurant owners. In some cases, physical violence has even been resorted to. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. It is of the utmost importance that supervisory activities can be carried out in a safe and secure manner, and this must be ensured in every way. It is also important to strengthen dialogue between authorities and industry, not least in these pandemic times. Therefore, it is important that both regulations and general advice are developed in close cooperation with those who run restaurants, cafés and cafés – all in order to ensure that the law is as predictable as possible for everyone involved. Finally, I am of the opinion that there should be greater opportunities for local and regional adjustments based on the current contagion situation, such as now in Helsingborg and the rest of Skåne. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-484	Madam President, I would like I believe that most of us have taken note of the news that came today from Copenhagen in Denmark, where today it is decided that all restaurants, pubs and restaurants will close completely on Wednesday. There may be citizens who ask themselves: Why are the same measures not taken in Helsingborg, for example, which has a major outbreak of infection right now, or in Stockholm, which has been severely affected by the pandemic throughout the spring? The answer is that we do not have that legislation in place. It is not possible to completely close all restaurants and restaurants in a city or a neighborhood. We need to look at what kind of opportunities we have in a pandemic situation. There is a great deal of agreement on the proposals that have been put forward in the Social Affairs Committee, among others, to press for a new pandemic legislation to be quickly introduced. We need to be more flexible when it comes to measures to take in the event of a pandemic. Much has been done anyway. The Public Health Agency, the Government and others have taken a lot of measures to reduce the spread of infection in the restaurant and restaurant environment. Among other things, it is about ensuring that serving is done to people sitting down. It is about stopping selling alcohol after 10 p.m., Madam President. It is a question of limiting the number of people sitting at a table to eight. It is clear that there is reason to emphasise that the national guidelines and rules apply. However, there are great opportunities for the municipal board that has to supervise to take further measures where regionally needed, together with infectious diseases doctors and others. It is important to emphasise this, because it has been highlighted as part of the discussion. This possibility is available in collaboration with the CDC to take further action. Municipalities have also been compensated for the increased scope for supervision of the manner in which restaurants and restaurants behave. I assume that there will also be additional funds next year to monitor this. Madam President, I would like We need to help each other to fight the infection. Hooks and restaurants are an important part of this work. But when we talk about this, it is also important to remember that restaurants and restaurants are an important part of our culture. It's about the joy of food. It is employment and social relations that are important even in times of distance. For our part, we Social Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal. I'd like to say the following to you who's sitting here thinking, should I go to the restaurant? You want me to go out and get myself a bite to eat? Yeah, I think you should. It is important that you do so to support the restaurant business, but do so responsibly. Go to restaurants and pubs that follow the regulations and make sure that it is possible to keep distance. One day, the pandemic will be over. Then Sweden needs a living restaurant business for the sake of culture and social relations.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-493	Madam President, I would like It is, as I said in my previous speech today, an extremely difficult time we are living in. Things are not moving in the right direction at the moment. We must all do everything we can to mitigate the spread of the disease. I am impressed by all the efforts made by a number of the hardest-pressed industries. This applies not least to the restaurant industry but also to the tourism and transport industries. Although it has been at the cost of major economic sacrifices, a number of voluntary restrictions have been prepared. The Social Democrat Dag Larsson previously highlighted the question: Why don't we do in Helsingborg as they have done in Denmark? There you go in considerably tougher and shut down operations in a situation where it is actually needed. Dag Larsson also had the answer to that. We do not have effective legislation in Sweden based on: How should we combat the infection? How are we going to fight the pandemic? We have a number of different legislations that may not have that aim at all. The government has tried to fight the pandemic with the Alcohol Act and the Code of Order. The matter we are going to discuss today is about what restrictions can be made at catering points. It goes without saying to us in the Center Party that, at this point, one of the tools available to the government is not being removed, namely the law on restrictions on catering points. But it would have been so much better, Madam President, if today we had already had in place a pandemic legislation that could be based on: what is the risk of infection spreading in various activities in Swedish society? We could go in there with proposals and decisions on restrictions. We might even be able to do what has been done in Denmark in a tense situation, close down a whole business. In addition, we could have dealt with the financial compensation to the traders who are severely affected by this type of decision. We do not have that legislation. The pandemic has been rolling now for ten months, but the legislation is not yet in place. It's not even referred. It is not even a ready-made proposal from the Government Office. There I am very pleased that we are now working together in the Social Affairs Committee to make demands on the government to deliver a proposal for pandemic legislation as quickly as possible. In that situation, when we have that legislation in place, the need will not be as great of this kind of legislation as we are going to extend today, or of using the Alcohol Act or the Order Act to push back the pandemic. With those words, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-503	Madam President, I would like The Liberals support the report and call for reservations to be rejected. This pandemic shows that it is everyone's responsibility to combat this spread of infection. It is about people of all ages and in all professions. However, we must proceed in a slightly different way depending on the situation we find ourselves in. What are the risks of infection? It must be proportionate restrictions that we decide on after an impact assessment. It doesn't have to take much time. It could be quick. However, impact assessments must include those concerned. I can say that the limitation that applied to 70-plusers, to which I myself belong, did not take place in dialogue. There was more panic. Maybe it was right at first. But then in the future it had very many serious consequences. Even year - old people killed themselves. Let's talk about the serving points. Here, I think the restrictions have been proportionate. You haven't had to close. People should sit down and eat their food and distance from each other, and supervision has worked well. There have been exceptions, but they have also been corrected. Then take away has come as something very positive that I think will stay. As a 70-pluser, I don't go to a restaurant. I lack the physical presence of other people. But you can get very good food from the restaurants. As Anders W Jonsson said, a pandemic law is needed. Sweden has come out worse than the other Nordic countries because we have had to use different legislations to make decent decisions. We have not been able to strike in the way that Norway, Finland and Denmark have been able to do. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-d46b67ab9ccc3ca1-510	Madam President, I would like Yes, today more than 7 000 people have been killed in the pandemic in our Sweden. A grandmother, a grandfather, a daughter, a son. We're all thinking about them now. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to understand that the advice now given by our authorities and by our government are not general tips. Such advice must be followed. The spread of infection is steadily rising, and we need to make the necessary restrictions to limit the spread of infection so that fewer people will have to put their lives on, so that the healthcare sector can cope with its work and so that those who work in the healthcare sector can cope with it. Madam President, I would like It is clear that all parties in the Swedish parliament see the problem that we do not have a pandemic law and that we should have had a pandemic law in place even before we were hit by covid-19. That is not the case, and it is good that we will be debating this in Parliament next week. There is now a feverish work going on at the Government Office to develop a pandemic law, and that is a very good thing. We cannot do the disease control work adequately only by means of the Act of Order and the Alcohol Act. We need better regulation in place. Until then, we have to work in the way we have done so far, and part of it is this extension of the law on temporary disease control measures at serving points. It is important to be able to meet socially under good circumstances, and there are many who would like to make a visit to a restaurant. But it must be possible to do so in an infectious manner. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
