i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-0	Mr President, I would like to We are meeting today to debate the budget proposal for 2021 and economic policy. This, of course, is happening in the shadow of the ongoing pandemic. There are signs of lightening. The government and authorities have gradually eased recommendations and restrictions. Education in upper secondary and higher education must no longer take place at a distance. It will soon be possible to visit retirement homes again. Many feel relief, so do I. It is about the joy of being able to meet their old parents and about the joy of meeting children and grandchildren. It is about the community in meeting old fellow students and getting to know new ones. But the pandemic isn't over. The risks are still high. Now both vigilance and perseverance are required of the entire Swedish people. Each of us also has a personal responsibility to keep the spread of the disease down. If we have learned anything from the pandemic, it is that no one can protect themselves against the pandemic on their own. We don't keep our distance and wash our hands just to protect ourselves. We do it to protect each other. The pandemic has also had very serious economic consequences. Our economy in Sweden and the whole world economy are in a downturn that is probably the largest since the Second World War. Our experience with past crises suggests that recovery can be prolonged. It is a decline that has hit the whole of society. In some industries, turnover has slowed down abruptly; in others, already brutal structural change is taking place even faster. Entrepreneurs have seen their life's work go up in smoke, and many wage earners have lost their jobs. Even more people are unsure how long their jobs will last. It was against this background that the government and the Riksdag acted quickly and decisively during the spring. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the opposition once again for its constructive action. We have different political starting points – and we shall have them – but when the crisis strikes, the Swedish people know that their elected representatives can gather for the good of Sweden. The first thing we did was to secure the resources to combat the spread of the disease. We gave a very important message to the staff in healthcare and care: that lack of money should not hinder their important work in caring for those who are ill or in testing and tracing. That was the case at the time, and that is still the case. It is of course important for everyone who has worked many, long and heavy hours during this year. The second thing we did was to alleviate the economic consequences of measures to overcome the economic crisis. With measures such as short-term lay-off, hundreds of thousands of employees have been able to fall into working time instead of risking notice and dismissal. Short-term lay-off was made possible by the fact that unions and employers got the necessary contracts in place very quickly. This shows that the Swedish labour market model passed the test during the crisis. The third thing we did was to strengthen the security of employees who lost their jobs, not least through increased levels and relaxed membership conditions in the unemployment insurance fund. The fact that we could make more than 200 billion available was possible because we had been saving in the barns during the good years, so we were able to face the pandemic with the lowest public debt since 1977. Thanks to Sweden's strong public finances, we were not only able to implement a historic crisis package – we also have the economic muscles to implement now a historic restarting package. What we are about to do now is a powerful green restart of the Swedish economy. Mr President, I would like to The budget agreed by the government, the Center Party and the Liberals has reforms that next year cover more than SEK 100 billion. Unfortunately, I will not be able to go through all the suggestions, because there are many of them, but I will summarise the three most important things: jobs, jobs and jobs. The jobs, Mr President, are crucial to solving the social problems that we are struggling with in Sweden today. It is only when everyone who can work also works that we can deal with social problems. These are patients who have had their treatment delayed even though they have waited too long. It is about pensioners who have worked their whole lives but still have a low pension. It's about parents who worry about their kids getting shot while they're out playing. It is by more people getting into work and paying taxes that we can afford more police officers, more nurses and higher pensions. But the jobs are about more than that. It's about having a community and a relationship. A wage to live on is not only food on the table but also freedom and self-determination. It's about choosing how you want to live your life and with whom. This spring many have been painfully reminded that no one is safe from being affected by unemployment. Never have so many applied for membership of the unemployment fund in such a short time. In the spring, we temporarily strengthened unemployment insurance cover, and today I was able to tell you that the higher levels remain until 2022. Instead of having to sell their homes in panic, people now have the economic breathing space that makes it possible to get back to work. Because now people are going back to work. If you become unemployed, you should meet clear demands to get your next job but also good opportunities to do so. Many will need to replenish their skills in order to apply for a different job or to change completely and learn a new profession. That is why we are now building the knowledge boost with over 30 000 new opportunities to learn a shortage profession and get an education that leads to jobs. For those who were far removed from the labour market before the crisis, more opportunities are introduced to get a foothold in working life with extra services, introductory jobs, matching and intensive years. But not least, the government is proposing an expansive fiscal policy that creates new jobs to apply for. We do this with public investment, public consumption and income gains for those with lower incomes. The emphasis is on investment. We have systematically gone through projects after projects to see if it is possible to advance and quickly launch, because that's how we get the wheels to spin again in the economy. As early as next year, the government's policy is expected to contribute to 75 000 new jobs. We invest in transforming Sweden into the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Throughout our country, new jobs are now emerging in sectors such as batteries, biofuels, environmental technology and fossil-free steel. Now we are speeding up this trend with new investments. The cost is reduced for companies wishing to bring forward investments for the future. In addition, the state makes extensive investments of its own. As for every railway to be renovated, every charging pole or solar cell to be set up, every apartment building to be equipped and every broadband cable to be drawn, the job is to be done, and the time to do it is now. The jobs of the future are also in a secure welfare for everyone throughout the country. Already in the spring, the government provided historically large financial contributions to municipalities and regions. Let's follow up with even more money. It protects care, school and care from mass layoffs, and it helps the wheels of the economy to start spinning. In addition to the general reinforcements, we are paying more money to the regions, which are to pay off the health debt, i.e. the planned care that needed to be postponed because of the Corona. In the spring, the spotlight was also on working conditions in the care of the elderly. Here we provide new, permanent money for better working conditions, more colleagues and the right skills for the job. It deserves the care of the elderly, and it deserves all the elderly in Sweden. Sweden's older people deserve not only a safe elderly care but also a good pension. Next year, therefore, the pension will be increased by SEK 600 for those who have worked their whole lives but still have a low pension – the food-pissing staff, the assistant nurse, the truck driver. With this budget, we are also taking the final step to close the unfair tax gap between salary and pension. From January 1, 2023, no one over 65 will pay a penny more in tax than the one who works. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the economic revival, the struggle continues tirelessly against social problems. There are really no words strong enough to describe the anger and horror that struck so many with me when the news came that a twelve - year - old girl had been shot to death. The fight against crime is, of course, complex and requires many different efforts, patience and prevention. But first of all, if you shoot a 12-year-old, you're going to jail. And you're gonna sit for a long time. The government tightens the so-called youth discount. It's not free, but it's worth every penny that's now being added to the Prison Service. To be sentenced to prison, the person who commits crime must also be arrested. It'll take more cops. The target of 10,000 more police officers is fixed. Next year there will be an addition of SEK 2 billion to the Police Authority, and it will be reinforced with new billions of dollars in coming years. But as the police themselves say, the whole of society can and must do more to reduce crime. More police officers are not enough; the influx of young people into gang crime must be strangled. This calls for more dedicated teachers, more interventions by social services when parents do not assume their responsibilities, more family homes and more places on the State Department Board. This work will be carried out by municipalities in close collaboration with law enforcement authorities, and therefore we propose historically large financial contributions, both general and targeted grants to municipalities. After all, most of the preventive work is carried out in the municipalities, and in this budget we are making historic contributions to them. We're going to beat crime hard and hard at the root causes of crime, but the fight against crime also requires us to go for the black money. More and sharper tools are now being introduced to stop cheating and incorrect payouts. Sweden will use the entire bureaucratic toolbox to stop the lifestyle criteria that attract young people into crime with expensive watches and designer clothes. All children, wherever they live, should have good role models and the security required to make their dreams a reality. Of course, that dream should include a job, because as the police themselves state: When unemployment increases, the crime risks becoming more. Mr President, I would like to Now that we are going to restart the economy and people are going to get back to work, we are obviously going to aim higher than just restoring to what was. The truth is that the Sweden that existed before the crisis was in no way perfect. Now we have a historic opportunity to conduct an economic policy that not only gets people into work but also ensures that everyone is involved in building Sweden stronger, safer and more sustainable. We'll take that opportunity. Now we will work Sweden out of the crisis together!
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-39	Mr President, I would like to SEK 105 billion in investments – the Swedish people are in debt, and then it is important to use the money in the best way. Nevertheless, I can see that this budget will not break gang crime or push back unemployment. The jobs, the jobs, the jobs, says the Minister of Finance. I can only note that the Minister of Finance, when she took office in October 2014, was unable to put unemployment under pressure in a fiery boom. Since we entered this crisis, Sweden has been the worst performing country. Many with me therefore ask how the government will succeed now, in a recession. Mr President, I would like to Social development is also going in the wrong direction when it comes to insecurity. Gang shootings and robbery are words that we didn't utter a few years ago or even knew they existed. Now people are exposed to the most degrading and serious crimes. As the Finance Minister himself mentioned, a young girl, 12 years old, ended up in a shooting. I am convinced that negative developments can be reversed. This goes through a clear and tough legal policy, and we have put many proposals on the table of Parliament. But resources are also needed to enable the judiciary to do its job. For me, Mr President, it is incomprehensible how the government and the support parties can put a budget on Parliament's table that does not provide the police and the Prosecutor's Office with the resources that are really needed. The question I would like to ask the Minister for Finance is therefore how you prioritise. How can the Minister of Finance prioritise 52 billion for aid next year but spend less money on the police, the Prosecution Authority, the courts and the Prison Service in a situation where more resources are needed to crack crime?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-44	Mr President, I would like to The government is increasing the contributions to all these agencies in the budget. The police will have 2 billion more next year than they had this year. It is possible that Elisabeth Svantesson will apply for a job as head of the police, but the police themselves believe that you do not need any additional addition next year in addition to these 2 billion. The following year the police also receive additional contributions, in fact more than they have requested. What the police are saying, however, is that we need to work more actively with preventive work. In addition to the major investments that we make in the budget for the police, the Correctional Service, the National Board of Forensic Medicine, the Migration Courts and the Swedish Prosecution Authority – where we have increased the funding by 30 percent since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister – we are also making major investments in preventive work. We know that in order for young people not to be drawn into these criminal networks, we need a better opportunity to catch them early. We are therefore investing money in language lifts in preschool, in school for love, in schools in vulnerable areas and further in particularly vulnerable municipalities. Above all, we make large general contributions to the municipalities so that they can work more preventively. Then you also have to do the third, and that is to go on the money. Here we also have efforts to strangle the supply of money to the criminal networks. We are therefore making extensive investments, and I fully share Elisabeth Svantesson's problem picture. In this area we need to work extremely intensively, and we need to do so together. I have a question for Elisabeth Svantesson, who believes that Sweden is the country that has performed the worst in the EU in terms of the labour market. Then I wonder: Which EU country's labour market does Elisabeth Svantesson think Sweden should have instead?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-50	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance will have to wait; there will also be an opportunity to ask me questions after my speech. I still haven't got an answer to my question. Is it reasonable for Sweden to spend EUR 52 billion next year on aid to other countries when we do not provide more resources than we do to the judiciary? I know very well what the resources for the police look like, but that's not new money. It is the money that Jakob Forssmed and I, together with our parties, put into the 2019 budget, increasing as a staircase. But there are no bets on the police. I can give the government and support parties a tip: you should invest in getting retired police officers back here and now to work on fighting crime. That's a good tip for the Minister of Finance. What I see in the autumn change budget is that you are strengthening the aid budget. Why not spend that money on Swedish justice at a time when insecurity is so huge?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-55	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to emphasise that we are making huge investments in the whole legal chain. The legal chain has expanded considerably since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. When we went into government position, the Moderates, including Elisabeth Svantesson, had dismantled police training so that more police officers retired than it came out newly trained. What we have done is to double police training so that there are now constantly examining new police officers that we can also hire. That's how the police's resources can be secured in the long term. It is important that we continue that work. We spend 42 billion in the budget on municipalities and regions. Much of it needs to go to preventive work. We will continue to ask Elisabeth Svantesson: Which European country's labour market does Elisabeth Svantesson think that the Swedish labour market should be instead of Sweden's?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-59	Mr President, I would like to About a month ago, the Minister of Finance in the newspaper Dagens Industri commented on a question of property tax: a problem with today's property tax, introduced by the alliance government, is that it is regressive. It has a special discount for high income earners. I assume the Minister for Finance is correctly quoted. Otherwise, she'll have to correct me. I don't know how to interpret that statement exactly. It is not obvious that just because you live in a house with a high tax value you have an automatic high income. Of course, there's some correlation– that's what it's supposed to be – but we can imagine, for example, a single elderly person where the former husband, or wife, accounted for the lion's share of the household's income. You are left alone with a low income but with a high rateable value. Should you be forced to move? We can also imagine that a house or farm has been in the family for many generations, that you have inherited the house, should you not be allowed to stay if you do not have a high income? My first question relates to what the Minister for Finance actually thinks that the Minister for Finance is correctly quoted. My second question concerns what the entrances of the Social Democrats are in the view of a reinstated property tax.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-63	Mr President, I would like to In fact, as the property tax is built up, a share of the value of the property is paid up to a certain ceiling. This means that for everyone who has a value below that ceiling, property tax increases as the property increases in value. It is above all those who in recent years have lived in less valued properties that have received an increased property tax. It is not those who live in the nice villas in the Stockholm area or other nice residential suburbs that have received increased property tax, but it is those who live in smaller towns in smaller homes around the country. In this way one can say that there is a special discount because those who live in fine, highly valued properties do not get any increases in property tax but only pay up to a certain ceiling. It is clear that there is a regression in the fact that those living in Solsidan– Fredde and Mickan pay property tax in the same way as those living in a small townhouse in a small town in Sweden. There is a clear regression. I am aware that there are people in Bohuslän, for example, who live in smaller houses on the coast who have become highly valued because of a large influx of Norwegians buying those houses. This was just a problem with today's property tax. I do not think it is entirely unproblematic that there is such a clear regression, where on average people with high incomes pay relatively low property tax in relation to people who usually have lower incomes and live in less highly valued houses.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-67	Mr President, I would like to Then there was the second part of the question: What are the social democrats' entrances to the view of property tax? Let us linger in the Stockholm area. The proposals that have been put forward by so-called experts, economists and indeed politicians also raise a tax of 1%. It should apply not only to villas and detached houses, but also to flats. A common Stockholm family can easily reach 30,000, 40,000 or even 50,000 kronor per year for a common household. Let me be clear: the Swedish democrats will in no way contribute to the restoration of property tax. If the Minister of Finance wants to tax an ordinary Stockholm family with 50 000 SEK per year, will it be told before the election or after the election?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-71	Mr President, I would like to Questions on the proposals made by experts should be addressed to them and not to me.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-72	Mr President, I would like to The government has certainly shown its momentum during the crisis. That's very well done. Of course, you can have views on parts, but you have certainly shown the ability to act. On the other hand, we see no action at all in tackling economic inequality, i.e. taxing the economic elite. If we look at what it looks like in the world, we see that Sweden is the country in the Western world, according to the OECD, which, together with New Zealand, has had the most strongly growing income gaps, i.e. where inequality has increased most in recent decades. Growing gaps, the Finance Minister knows as well as I do, are bad for economic development, democracy, school results, crime, security and individual power and opportunities in life. Equal countries are developing better, quite simply. We can see that this year a director receives $200,000 in tax cuts, and here the Minister of Finance boasts that a low - income earner will receive about a hundred cents a month in tax cuts, that is, one and a half thousand dollars. It does not even out economic gaps at all. We can see that it is primarily property income that is divided. The richest percentage gets over half, that is 200 billion. This is equivalent to five years' child benefit. If we want long-term sustainable financing of welfare, there should be room now to tax the economic elite. People have been standing on the barricades, demanding that nurses and nurses get increased salaries and more co-workers and that there should be an end to the era of cutbacks. But the Social Democrats have some kind of fear of touch when it comes to taxing the economic elite. Why, Magdalena Andersson?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-77	Mr President, I would like to Now Ulla Andersson knows that I have no fear of touching them at all to raise taxes for them with the highest incomes. In fact, Ulla Andersson and I have worked together on budget proposals where we have increased the tax for them with the highest incomes. We have also worked together on a proposal to increase capital tax which would mainly meet with the highest income through the so-called 3:12 rules. Unfortunately, the motion was blocked by a parliamentary majority. A different parliamentary majority is simply needed in order to be able to proceed with this type of proposal. What Ulla Andersson points out, the increase in inequality, is the root of so much evil in our society. It means that we have a Sweden that doesn't look like Sweden should do, that is, a society that stays together, where children learn what they need in school, where there is a home to move from home to, where there is work and where you can age in security. That's what I want to build in Sweden. In order to achieve this, we also need to reduce the economic gap. The proposals in this budget have a good distribution profile, and I myself am very pleased about that.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-80	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson knows very well that during the last parliamentary term there was a major conflict about taxing the economic elite or not. The will of the Social Democrats was very neglected – if I can put it that way. That's actually what it looks like. Sweden has become a tax haven for the rich elite. Just look at tax policy. We have no wealth tax and no inheritance and gift tax. We have a very low corporate tax. Fewer companies, Ica dealers and venture capitalists pay less in share of their income than a nurse or teacher does. In fact, that is what it looks like, and now you are presenting a budget in which you certainly do not tackle economic inequality seriously. Now we're waiting for new cuts. Just look in your own table. We will have cuts in welfare in the future. There will be fewer nurses, nurses and teachers precisely because you avoid taxing the financial elite, and I deeply regret that.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-83	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson will remember well what it was like in the last parliamentary term when we came forward with proposals for increased taxation for those with the highest incomes. These were proposals that I was enthusiastic about, because I want to combat economic inequality. But it was the case that a parliamentary majority – the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the other opposition parties – threatened me with a motion of censure if we even went forward with the proposals. That is what the parliamentary majority looked like during the last parliamentary term, and we have the same parliamentary majority during this parliamentary term. There is no support for these proposals. The only thing we can do is to draw up really good proposals, bring them to the elections and make sure that things are different during the next parliamentary term.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-85	Mr President, I would like to I like good compromises. With a common picture of problems and focus, these can wash away ideological overtones and make proposals better in the face of reality. But the compromise attempts of the January parties are like a dysfunctional household community that does not really agree on where the journey should go that tries to agree on which car to buy. Someone wants an old one from the '80s that's not good but equal. Someone wants a sustainable car, or at least a green one. Someone wants a car that can generate revenue in the future – good! And someone wants to drive down the cab and have no protection at the next storm. But then they realize: We do not need to compromise. We'll buy each of our cars and show them off. We have over 100 billion at our disposal. That's why Magdalena Andersson's perhaps biggest job proposal, for 18 billion, is one that her boss the Prime Minister has called a billion-dollar fraud and which she herself claimed has absolutely no job effects. That is why the Centre Party and the Liberals go forward with their own condemned weakening of the work line, expensive and inefficient building subsidies and an environmental partisan spending confetti, which in turn is why the Green Party must accept most things, in normal order, even if they are going to get more troublesome in the future. The Swedish household has to pay, and far too little effort is being devoted to the fact that the foundation of the work for the construction of society now has serious cracks, that the hail of crime penetrates through the roof and that the nursing heating system is becoming increasingly difficult to keep the cold pole. Even if you think you have over 100 billion, you have to be able to compromise and prioritise, so my question to Magdalena Andersson is why the Minister for Finance and the January parties have not done so.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-90	Mr President, I would like to If it were so that all the parties got everything they had on their wish list, then the bill would not have ended at 105 billion but on much more. So does Jakob Forssmed. This is the case; we are in politics, and we have many ideas about how we want to move Sweden forward. What we four parties have done this year is to deal with an exceptional crisis. Together, we have made eleven additional amending budgets of over 200 billion, and now we have a budget of 100 billion. We have sat down together and discussed how we can best take Sweden through this crisis and how we can best restart the Swedish economy. Taking Sweden through the crisis has been about major bridging measures such as short-term lay-off and support for companies, more money for health care and increased unemployment funds. Restart packages are about how we can get the wheels to start spinning again and get more people to work so that we can deal with social problems in the long term. That has been the starting point of those discussions.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-93	Mr President, I would like to I believe that for those who read the budget it is not clear that this is the focus that the government has had. The feeling you get is that it is a division of property – admittedly within the marriage of reasoning but still – rather than a joint project that the January parties have been engaged in. One example is that the Minister of Finance is now letting through reduced employers' contributions for young people, which the Minister of Finance itself believes has no job effects. But it only kicks in in April instead of now that the crisis is here, when unemployment is a fact and we have to use all the means available to counter it. This will allow reform to take place in a compromise which, moreover, will again not be good enough. I must also point out this with prosecutors and courts. It is considered to have over 100 billion at its disposal, but it is unable to finance prosecutors and courts so that they can follow developments as the police grow. This is the case when nobody takes responsibility for the whole thing, Mr President.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-96	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that the Prosecution Authority has received 30 percent increase in funding since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, so we have expanded the prosecution system as we expanded the police. This after Jakob Forssmed's Christian Democrats left Sweden in a situation where more policemen retired than were trained. We've doubled police training. Now we're hiring them, and we're expanding the prosecution and the judiciary. We're expanding the Forensics Agency, and we're expanding the Correctional Services. It is a very big initiative in the field of justice policy. As regards the reduction in employers' contributions, Jakob Forssmed knows that you need to comply with the processing requirements laid down in the Constitution before you can come up with new tax legislation. A memorandum will be sent to you for a referral, it will be reviewed by the Law Council and then the legislation can become a reality. But the sooner Parliament can handle this, the better. Jakob Forssmed himself has contributed to the fact that legislative proposals have sometimes come into place even earlier than we thought.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-98	Mr President, I would like to This spring showed how Swedish politics can come together and solve problems very quickly if you just want to. It is even possible to get new legislation in place very quickly if you want to. This is a force that the government and parliament should make more use of. Rather, we need to use that policy more, because the development of society is now moving in the wrong direction quickly. This is particularly true of serious crime, but also of rising unemployment. Mr President, I would like to My oldest grandson is seven years old. She plays with dolls, she plays games and she jumps the trampoline with her brothers as many other children do. But not all of them. In Sweden there are eight-year-olds who rob gangs, and rob other children, in the evenings. They should be allowed to sleep safely at home in their beds. Children are in gangs and rob other children. But that does not have to be the case, Mr President. I'm sure it's possible to change if you want to. The criminal gangs are becoming increasingly aggressive. They spread fear in many residential areas. They dictate the conditions for honest people with their own laws and rules. They set up roadblocks and attack cops. Yes, Sweden has become the country where the police now need police escorts. I hate to say it, but we've become so used to reporting this kind of thing that we barely even react anymore. The violence and executions have become so normalized that when a twelve - year - old girl, Adriana, was shot to death, some people's reaction was, what did she do out at night? As if it were the biggest problem. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that it is possible to reverse the negative development of society if you want to. Look at Denmark! There they have managed to crack their very extensive gang crime. It has been done with a clear and tough policy. Our neighbour has taken some Swedish gang members and sentenced them to life. I thank you for that. But it would still have been better if we had managed to put them in jail ourselves before they went to Denmark and murdered them. There they were given life and 20 years in prison. I wonder if there's someone in here who thinks they got too much punishment. If not, why do we not together see to it that the same punishment is imposed here in Sweden? You can prove it if you want to. We Moderates have presented a series of measures to combat gangs. In many cases, it is about what Denmark has done. Among other things, we want to see search zones and systems of anonymous witnesses, but we also want to make it criminal to be in the criminal gangs. Mr President, I would like to Of course, it also plays a major role in the priority given to the distribution of taxpayers' money to the judiciary and the police. This is where the government goes wrong every year. Last year, they put twice as much money into parole as they put on the police. And this budget continues by ensuring that the aid is greater than the money for the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts and the penitentiary together. The money for other countries is going to be bigger than the money for the justice system at home. Mr President, I would like to That it is possible if you want to show us as I said during the spring. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for the fact that we, the Government and the Parliament, together ensured that important emergency packages were quickly put in place. This saved a great many jobs, and we Moderates contributed to that work. Even though it took a lot of time, after a long vacation, it is good that the crisis support for the individual traders also now finally come into place. We will make a decision on this on Wednesday here in the Swedish Parliament. When you want, it's obviously going well. Mr President, I would like to Sweden had major underlying economic problems even before the Corona crisis hit: the lowest growth per person in the EU and the EU's fifth highest unemployment rate. Now half a million people are unemployed and very many laid off. If this continues, it will not be long before Sweden has the highest unemployment rate in the EU. I ask myself: how will a government that increased unemployment in the economic boom cope with combating it in recession? This worries me. Now the government and support parties are making an attempt in this budget. 100 billion will be invested, and Swedish taxpayers will be held in debt – every penny will have to make a difference. Then you have to lower the tax in the way that it leads to more jobs. Then you have to make sure that it pays better to work than not to work. But the government, the Center Party and the Liberals have missed the lesson from previous crises: that it is the work line, not the grant line, that can build Sweden strong again. Mr President, I would like to Youth unemployment is now the highest since the 1990s. Now one in five immigrant people is also unemployed. But what worries me most are all the long-term unemployed, who were many before the crisis – those who were completely excluded from it even before the crisis. These are people who haven't had reason to set the clock early in many years, make that cup of strong coffee, take the bus to work, heat the lunch box and have lunch with their friends. To hide and forget people in prolonged alienation is and has been a parade for social democrats. This is done by offering grants as a supply, not making demands, having no contact with persons and having no expectations whatsoever. The Moderates will not stand up for that policy. We will never give up on the outsider. Mr President, I would like to The work line needs to be strengthened again. It must pay better to work, and the tax must be reduced on low earnings. It should always pay better to take a job than to stack different contributions on each other. It is possible, if you want, to introduce a premium ceiling. But the government doesn't want to. It is possible to make demands on people who come here to learn Swedish; that is very reasonable. But the government doesn't want to. It is possible to do what you do in many moderate-controlled municipalities – require full-time activity from those who have a contribution so that the way to work is shorter. But the government doesn't want to. Grants should be an ultimate safety net, but for many now they have become a means of making a living. It is possible to require all municipalities to make demands for compensation. But the government doesn't want to. No, Mr President, when it comes to tightening up state expenditure, such as reducing compensation or subsidies or tightening up aid to other countries, the government never wants to. But when it comes to increasing incomes through new taxes, the government is really on its toes. Then it'll be quick! Plastic bag tax, tax on vacuum cleaners, refrigerators and computers, air tax, waste incineration tax, mileage tax, more taxes on clothes and shoes, tax on take away coffee and food, bank tax– the list can be made very long. It is tax after tax that makes life miserable for ordinary people and causes trouble for those who run businesses. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates will soon present our alternative to the government budget. We will focus in particular on three things. Firstly, to destroy crime through sufficient resources and a new focus on criminal policy. You can do it if you want. Secondly, combating unemployment by re-establishing the work line in benefit systems while improving the conditions for business operators. You can do it if you want. Thirdly, give taxpayers currency for tax money. If you live in a country with high taxes, you should get what you pay for. The sick person should receive care on time, and the children should have the knowledge they need at school. You can do it if you want. Finally, Mr President – twelve-year-old Adriana was shot to death. She was betrayed by the political system. The guys who were tortured, raped and humiliated all night in a cemetery have also been betrayed by the political system. We should all in here think about the victims before we turn off the light and fall asleep. They should be our alarm clock in the morning. It is possible to make Sweden safe again. It will not happen by itself, and it will not be easy. But it is possible, Mr President, if you wish.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-124	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson raises many important issues in her speech. It is good that the government has received such good support from the Riksdag when we have tightened the penalties, expanded the judiciary and the whole legal chain and when we work more towards the criminal networks' money. Elisabeth Svantesson also addresses the labour market. It is important that we now really work hard to bring down unemployment. Elisabeth Svantesson claims that we would like to hide people, but during the last and this parliamentary term we have actually worked exactly the opposite, with more people coming into the labour market. We have, among other things, abolished the custody allowance, which existed when Elisabeth Svantesson was in the government. We have changed parental insurance to allow more newly arrived women to enter the labour market more quickly. We have introduced a training obligation for new arrivals, additional services and a wide range of other measures. They have had an effect; we have had a historically large supply of labour in recent years. Elisabeth Svantesson compares with other European countries, so I would like to return to the question I asked before: Which European country's labour market does Elisabeth Svantesson think that Sweden's labour market should be more similar?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-127	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for the question. I think we should be the best ourselves. I am not the one who has set the objective of having the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. I'm just noticing that this government is going down the drain. I think that Sweden should steer towards full employment, and I think, as I said in my speech, that it is very sad that, despite a fantastic boom, this government has hidden and forgotten people in long-term unemployment. Thus, more people were long-term unemployed before the crisis came than when the government took office. These are the people I am talking about: the people who no one calls when they have been unemployed for one or two years, who have not come into extra services and who are completely passive because no one cares about them. They have activity support that is a long-term supply. You pay grants, but you don't contact these people. These are the ones I mentioned in my speech. I think that Sweden should steer towards full employment and do everything we can to have as low unemployment as possible. Then you have to have a policy that makes it more profitable to work, which involves a major benefit reform so that it always pays to take a job and that actually sees every person and provides the support that is needed.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-131	Mr President, I would like to I understand why Elisabeth Svantesson does not answer the question. Indeed, Sweden has the highest employment rate of all countries in the EU. Moreover, we have the highest supply of labour compared to all other countries in the EU. We should not be content with that, but it is difficult to say from that perspective that Sweden has failed precisely in the labour market. But we should not be content there, but we should continue to work to ensure that every single one of those who entered the labour market during the boom of the last parliamentary term, not least foreign-born women, remains there and receives support to get to work. That is why the government's actions are so important: education obligations, extra services, the intensive year. We are investing a great deal of resources there and, of course, we are also hoping for the support of the Moderates to ensure that we really catch up with these women, so that we do not lose them now in the recession, as we see in other European countries right now.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-133	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to answer the question: I think we should be the best ourselves. It is not I who have set a target to compare with other countries, but I cannot describe it as anything but a major failure when one in five people who have immigrated to Sweden is unemployed. How can you not describe it as a failure? I am fully aware that we have a high level of employment. We have had this for many years, higher than in most countries. That's good. But that people are in exclusion, do not have a job to go to, do not have their own livelihood and do not have co-workers, I will see as a failure when it comes to as many as it is now. It is mass unemployment in many groups in Sweden. To get to grips with this, there are a few things you need to do. You need to make it more profitable to work. Then you should not increase the checkout or the contributions. You should give people support and make it more profitable to work.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-136	Mr President, I would like to I would like to welcome Elisabeth Svantesson by saying that the Left Party would like a ceiling – for directors and the financial elite. I think it is completely unreasonable that fully able-bodied people with very good finances should have paid, receive subsidies, because they do not have the energy to clean their own homes. Now they will even receive subsidies for not being able to take care of their own dirty laundry or refurbish their huge floors. I think that is completely unreasonable. I would like to see a premium ceiling for profit withdrawals in welfare. For it is quite unreasonable that there should be a better return on running a retirement home than a bank in Sweden, is it not? Should there be better returns on welfare activities, which are tax-financed but privatised, than on other private service activities, which are not tax-financed? And elderly care then, which has the highest return of all the privatised welfare activities and, as I said, significantly higher returns than banks, has more unskilled, poorer working conditions, more part-time jobs, more fixed-term employees and so on. In the privatised schools we have received school segregation and grade inflation. Children are the ones who are rejected, and they establish themselves where they have the best opportunity to make a lot of money. The same is true of the health centres: They establish themselves where people are healthier, for example at Östermalm here in Stockholm. We have a major financial crime in privatised welfare. That ought to be a little reflection on the part of the parties that have pushed through privatised welfare and the legislation that now governs welfare. I was going to ask Elisabeth Svantesson if crime in privatised welfare or the high yield should have a ceiling, or if you might have a ceiling for directors – would that not be reasonable and good?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-141	Mr President, I would like to It was in any case two who patted up in the gallery. I really think we need a ceiling. I'd like to take this opportunity to explain why I think it's important. There was a report from one of the government's own institutes that shows that for many families where two parents do not work and several children live at home it is not worth taking a job. If one of the parents gets a job, it is not worth taking that job at all. This is morally reprehensible, and it also leads completely wrong. I want everyone to contribute and that it always pays better to work. Those who live next door to the family who do not work and who receive all the benefits must also feel that it should be worth something to set the alarm clock in the morning. Then, of course, this can be dealt with. I fully understand that the Left Party does not want to introduce a ceiling on subsidies which will lead to more people getting into work. I have great respect for that. Then I do not draw the same conclusions as Ulla Andersson – yes, actually about some of the extension of the RUT deduction, but we do not need to discuss that now. I may think it is taking the RUT deduction a little far to introduce some of the new services that are now being done. I don't really understand how it's going to lead to more jobs. But that's another thing. But when it comes to the fact that there are different actors in the welfare sectors, it is quite clear from before that I and Ulla have different opinions. However, I fully agree with what Ulla Andersson and Magdalena Andersson said earlier that we must tackle all forms of fraud. Whether it's private companies or municipal corruption, we're going to deal with everything, because every tax chandelier is going to be used in the best possible way. They shouldn't go into any pockets where they don't belong.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-148	Mr President, I would like to When the Moderates held the prime minister's post, economic inequality shone. I would like to say that there were very many in the financial elite – the directors, the core voters of the Moderates – who were very happy, for how many thousands they got in their wallets every month year after year! That is moderate politics. But when people who lose their jobs or get sick need the help of society and when people in financial vulnerability need some form of financial security and dignity, the Moderates shout out loud. It is something that sits there in the spinal cord: Economically vulnerable should know their place! They're supposed to be distrustful, because they don't want to do the right thing. You know what, I think every person wants to do right by themselves, stand on their own feet, have a job and be able to support themselves. And you know, I think that if you lose your job, your child should have it anyway, until you get a new job and can participate in community construction.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-151	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the view that the safety nets we have in Sweden should be strong for those who most need it. The problem now is that for very many people with work capacity social assistance has become a lifelong income. That's accepting an alienation that leaves people in the lurch. We're never gonna do that. Finally, I would like to go back to the years of the alliance and talk to Ulla Andersson about a few things. I would like to say with pride that during those years a nurse received an entire month's salary more in her wallet for a year. A nurse who worked hard, whether in care for the elderly or in a hospital, had to keep more money in her wallet because of her own qualifications because he or she was working. I'm happy and proud of that. It increased self - control, and it was the best thing a nurse could get for herself.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-153	Mr President, I would like to Consent and handshake from the Moderates come with very short best before dates. This seems to be particularly true of communications relating to cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. Prior to the election, cooperation with SD was excluded. Ulf Kristersson joked with the Minister for Finance that it would be just as unserious to build a state budget on SD's economic policy as to give the Left Party a right of veto over it. However, after the election they tried to form a small conservative right-wing government, supported by SD. After that, new news came again. Now it was time to discuss and cooperate on individual issues. The last message I heard was that Jimmie Åkesson can not expect to become a finance minister at the moment, but that a future budget should be negotiated with SD. I agree with Ulf Kristersson anno 2018 that SD's economic policy is not serious. In their eagerness to cut the cost of immigration, they leave a spring note that the municipalities get to pick up. According to several reviews, their shadow budgets have left inexplicable holes in government finances. They were the first to want to see a reduced surplus target, and later, without justification, they became the main advocates of an expansive fiscal policy. This is not connected, and it is not serious. I would like to ask Elisabeth Svantesson what changes the SD has made to its economic policy that make her think that their policy is serious enough to build a state budget.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-159	Mr President, I would like to That's a far-fetched question. But I can say this: We in the Moderates intend to go to elections on our own politics. We intend to go to elections to form a bourgeois government with as many bourgeois parties as possible. Right now it looks as if it is the Christian Democrats and we who intend to form it. Then we intend to seek support in the Swedish parliament to implement important reforms for Sweden. I hope that many parties will be willing to contribute. I am convinced that the Swedish Democrats can contribute to some of it, and there may be other parties. This spring, we have shown in the Swedish Parliament that eight parties can make many good decisions together. We eight parties in the Committee on Finance have talked to each other and discussed proposals, and together we have done things better. I do not understand that Karolina Skog is not talking to the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Finance. I do not see that the Left Party or the Social Democrats do not. We need to solve social problems. You can certainly take a line if you want to discuss the economic policy of the Swedish Democrats once you have submitted a budget yourself. But my focus and that of the Moderates is to solve social problems. Unfortunately, this budget does not. I think that a budget of other parties would have looked different and really focused on the social problems that Sweden has. I see that the Swedish Democrats have a lot of economic policy that I can sign up to. I see that the Green Party has some economic policies that I can endorse, but I do not see that in the future we have such great opportunities to cooperate on a budget.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-165	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to my question. It is one thing, during a crisis, to gather the Riksdag for joint responsibility and something else to secure the majority needed to get through its budget and be able to form a government. Nothing has changed with the Swedish Democrats. What has changed, however, is that the Moderates seem to have realized that their only way to power is through Jimmie Åkesson. I think Elisabeth Svantesson and everyone else who is considering giving the Swedish Democrats more influence should see to the Scanian municipalities where the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats already cooperate. There is neither budgetary discipline nor a good climate for conversation. There are administrations in decay. There is chaos, and officials flee. There, local journalists are slandered. Unless it terrifies me to bring this up to national politics, I am afraid.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-169	Mr President, I would like to I note once again that me and the Moderates are here to solve social problems. We intend to continue to do so in our budget over the years to come. If we win the government, we intend to do so through legislation, for example, to deal with gang crime. In all honesty, it is now easier to seek support from parties other than the Green Party to overcome Sweden's great insecurity. It is not the Green Party that is putting forward the most constructive proposals to push back the very hard and raw crime that most people think is a problem. It is not the Green Party that is pursuing a policy that makes fewer people unemployed and more people come to work. Mr President, I would like to My message is that the Moderates will be the party that always takes the major social problems seriously and puts forward proposals to solve them. For us, the most important thing is that Sweden gets on the right track and that the development turns around. We will continue to work exactly that way. We did so last spring, and why there would be so much difference between the spring crisis and this autumn I do not understand.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-173	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by thanking you for an entertaining line shift. Never let a good crisis go to waste. Never waste a good crisis. They say it was Winston Churchill who coined that expression. Just over 70 years later, we can see that both Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron, the Federal Chancellor of Germany and the President of France, as well as Belgian Charles Michel, the President of the Council of Europe, have chosen to heed Churchill's call. The answer to all the challenges, in this case a coronavirus, is always the same. More of the EU. More power for Brussels. More money. More taxes. More federalism. Less national independence and sovereignty. Less democracy. Less popular rule. What we have witnessed during the summer, however, is not only the powerfulness and ambition of these people, but also a gigantic and monumental betrayal of their own government. In the past, Parliament, taxpayers and the whole of the Swedish people have argued for their opposition to gigantic EU-level grant packages. But still, once it's in place and in a strong position, you fold down. Then you can't take the pressure. The European Commission will lend EUR 750 billion which it will then scatter, mainly to countries that mismanaged their economies and have not had a budget in balance for decades. Then the bill will be sent to not least the Swedish taxpayers. That our own government has agreed to this, despite its pledges to the contrary, is a gigantic and monumental betrayal. Each individual Swedish will have to pay just over a thousand a month to finance mainly Southern junk economies. These are countries that have had no idea that there is a tomorrow and that there is no debt in their ears. Their problem is theirs. That's not our problem. We're not going to finance their irresponsibility. Sweden comes first. Before this battle is concluded, the next one is already under way: the issue of the EU's right to levy taxes. Thus, on the day that the Swedish people lose the right to tax themselves, when we are demoted from an independent state to some sort of vassal state, there will be a particularly potent force in the form of the Swedish Democrats – in this House and outside – to lead the way and free the Swedish people from this monstrous creation. Mr President, I would like to This is not the only shortcomings we have witnessed during the summer. We have also seen the complete failure of the Committee on Migration Policy to bring together something that even resembles a broad parliamentary base. The explanation of this failure is spelled by the Social Democrats. In other words, it is more important for the Social Democrats to continue to rule and thus meet their extremist colleague, MP, than to conduct sensible politics for Sweden. Almost all people and almost all parties, except the Green Party, the Center Party and of course the Communists, understand that Sweden's migration policy is not sustainable. But the Social Democrats don't care. They don't care about the kingdom; they only care about Rosenbad. We can certainly talk about volume targets, and the target must, of course, be zero or even below. But we can also let Sweden's, or indeed the Social Democrats', migration policy be illustrated by a single example from earlier this summer: An adult Afghan man without a need for protection was granted a residence permit because he was not particularly talented. Mild intellectual disability, wrote the Migration Court and ruled that this in itself was a reason for a residence permit and thus a lifetime of livelihood at the expense of Swedish taxpayers. What do you say, instead of conducting a migration policy in which we attract people with a low intellect, to conduct a policy in which we attract people with a high intellect? Would it be completely out of place for this House? Mr President, I would like to Let me also say a few words about the government's so-called environmental policy, that is, the policy of not having nuclear power in Sweden. The dismantling of Swedish nuclear power resulted in a lack of power in the southern parts of the country. Then the power plant in Karlshamn got started – and this in the summer, when it was at its warmest. The oil power plant in Karlshamn is a reserve power plant that normally runs in winter, when it is as cold, but this year, somewhere between the herring and the nub, we thus had power shortage and had to burn oil instead of splitting atoms in a safe, clean and above all fossil-free way, in Ringhals, for example. And we owe this to the Green Party. The environmental party's very existence in Swedish government policy leads unsearched thoughts into yet another Churchill quote, but inverted. Churchill – in response to the courageous British fighter pilots – said something like that never before have so many had so few to thank for so much. Inverted to the government of the Green Party and Social Democrats it will be: Never before have so few had so many to thank for so little. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats will shortly be presenting a fiscally expansionary, offensive budget motion aimed at significantly stimulating the Swedish economy and the economy. We are still in a precarious situation in the short term, and right now we need to think both short- and long-term. For 2021, we will need different types of incentives in the form of smart tax incentives and public investment, which means that the fiscal framework and the surplus target will have to be sidelined. In the medium term, we need to return to a relatively low public debt – to the debt anchor. The Swedish democrats are not prepared to raise taxes for this purpose, but instead we will have to cut back on various public expenditure: aid policy, integration policy, migration policy, for example. For us, it won't be very difficult priorities.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-190	Mr President, I would like to In Dorotea, which has the country's highest tax rate, they have almost SEK 6 more in municipal tax than in Österåker, which has the country's lowest municipal tax rate. On an income of 500 000, a Doroteabo pays about 30 000 more in tax than you need to do in Österåker with the same income. It has turned out that small rural municipalities have often spent a large proportion of their municipal budget on elderly care because the voters have asked for it but also because they have a large distance. Similarly, there are often many small municipal village schools. The municipal equalisation system aims to create a level playing field so that all municipalities and regions can provide an equivalent service. In other words, a rich municipality like Danderyd can help a more poor municipality like Dorotea, where the tax force is low. It's just a little Robin Hood. But then you can read in the Swedish Democrats' programme on p. 9, which says that the Swedish Democrats want to abolish the equalization system – a system that would actually have to equalize more, not less.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-194	Mr President, I would like to I myself live in a municipality in sparsely populated areas with relatively high taxes. The levelling system is incredibly important. Dorotea is one example, and little Skinnskatteberg, where I live, is another. One way to get away from the large differences in the municipal tax rate is to invest in the local government sector – in municipalities and regions. We are making this very clear in the budgetary motions we have put forward, and even more so in the budgetary motion that we are going to put forward. The fact that a municipality receives a supplement and chooses to invest it in care for the elderly is an example – it is certainly necessary. Or you want to reduce the municipal tax by 5, 10 or 25 cents. I leave this to every single municipality, which determines it best. However, the fact that we need to inject resources from the state into the municipal equalisation system – i.e. that the state takes a greater share of the responsibility – seems to me to be quite clear, and we also demonstrate this in sharp, concrete policy. It is in the smaller part of the equalization system that the relatively more prosperous municipalities finance the relatively less prosperous municipalities. I can take the view that it is the state that should take greater responsibility there. Ulla Andersson is right in the sense that there are various structural problems around our elongated country. Perhaps it is not the municipalities that are supposed to finance each other but the state that should take greater responsibility. That's my opinion.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-198	Mr President, I would like to Should I interpret Oscar Sjöstedt's answer so that what is written in the municipal policy programme of the Swedish Democrats, adopted by their members, does not apply to the policy of the Swedish Democrats? It is also a way of looking at democracy and the influence of its members. It is clear from page 9 that the Swedish democrats want to abolish the municipal equalization system. I would like to say that we need to increase the levelling-up between municipalities very clearly and clearly. This does not do the Swedish Democrats in their budget, but I would say that you put money in with one hand and take away with the other, Oscar Sjöstedt, and make no difference at all between small and large, rich and prosperous municipalities. I haven't seen any of that in your budget movements so far. In that case it would be something completely new that Oscar Sjöstedt has come up with here and now in the speaker's chair because he suddenly gets crowded. But perhaps this is how the economic policy of the Swedish democrats is shaped.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-200	Mr President, I would like to If Ulla Andersson has not seen it, she has not read our budget motions. It's quite obvious. Just open the latest one and you can see what it says there. In terms of how to interpret it, there are two main elements of the equalisation system – in fact there are more than two. One is revenue equalisation, and the other is expenditure equalisation. The part where the municipalities finance each other, so to speak, is the small part. The big part is what the government is shooting at. I think that is how it is to be interpreted, that it is the part that the state is making to increase, rather than the municipalities sitting and financing each other. I think that is the most reasonable interpretation. And yes, there is a need for large additions to the equalisation system, but not necessarily from municipality A to municipality B, but from the state to the municipalities. That's the big difference. We included this in last year's budget motion, and we will definitely have this in this year's budget too.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-203	Mr President, I would like to When we meet for this debate, we can see that tomorrow looks brighter than yesterday now. It feels like we are moving in the right direction both in terms of dealing with the pandemic and in terms of economic development. That feeling has not been present for much of this year, quite the contrary. I recall the feeling during the spring's most hectic weeks of crisis management. That was really tough. It was night black in large parts of the national economy, and uncertainty was almost total. Now we see a clear light, but it is far from safe or stable. It is clear that a number of countries are now reviewing what restrictions can be tightened up once again. Israel has shut down its entire country and thus its economy for a second time. It is clear that if this becomes applicable in large parts of the world, it will in every way affect Sweden as well. There is therefore every reason to continue to have a very close and strong focus on reviewing how the economy and pandemic are developing in the future and what measures and steps need to be taken to deal with the emerging situations. At the moment, however, we can see that we are still in the right position. Hopefully, this budget can mark a shift from a purely crisis policy to a more forward-looking policy where we build Sweden in the long term stronger and where we do not support our companies through pure crisis support but rather through wise tax cuts and investments that give new contracts, new jobs and new business so that the wheels start to spin. During the spring, I have greatly appreciated the pragmatism and problem-solving spirit that has characterised political work. When I come to look back at the year 2020, it will not be mainly because it was the time that we got through a reform or the time that we got through policies that we have driven over years and decades. It will rather be about that it was then that we actually sat around the same table, then we took the available political tools and used them and carried out what we might have argued against for years there because it was the smartest thing right there and right then. This type of pragmatism has characterised much of 2020. It is very good for Sweden that we have parties on the right and left that have this ability. Let us maintain it, it is a great strength and it is something that a number of democracies, not least in the Western world, have lost in recent years. Let us continue to be good at what we are good at in Sweden. I have noted that the budget presented today is being slightly criticised. Some feel that the story and the whole is missing. Let me try to describe what are the main themes of this budget. In fact, one could say that a few things pervade the whole budget document. In a number of areas, the answer to why the budget looks like it is that we quickly choose the workable solutions, tools and roads. The answer to a number of initiatives, such as why it was SEK 1 1⁄2 billion on road and rail maintenance, is that it is about there that we have the opportunity to get this money into the system. Why was there SEK 1.4 billion on broadband? That is about what we have the opportunity to get out practically in the coming year. It is the practical thing that is the narrow sector, so to speak. Another fundamental principle of this budget is that what is done is done on a number of fronts precisely so that everyone in society feels that they are part of economic policy. There is plenty of public investment – investments in municipalities and regions – but there are also substantial tax cuts in order for people and companies to feel that something is now happening in the household fund and in the corporate account and that they are now part of the Swedish kick-start. Working that wide and working with the existing tools can of course maliciously be interpreted as fragmented or as not being able to prioritise. But it's actually about working with the available tools. We are doing what we can do here and now, and we are not putting political work on things that need to be investigated for years before it can be carried out. Rather, I would like to say that there is wisdom and pragmatism that have characterised the whole year 2020 and all the various crisis budgets that are now living on into this historically large re-starting budget. A number of efforts are therefore being made. It will not be possible to talk about everyone. But the main features need to be highlighted. There is a lot of investment in job creation – on jobs and on entrepreneurship. The big pucks here are about wisely designed tax cuts, such as reduced employers' contributions for young people. But it is a policy that also benefits others in the labour market, because it is also a general stimulus to entrepreneurship, a stimulus that will partly go to job creation also for people who are not young. Lower income taxes, not least for low and medium-sized incomes, are also about incentive policies that give people a little more money to move around with. It will end in the service sector, service sector, tourism and much more. It's part of making the wheels spin. One of my favourite reforms is the tax rebate on investments that is now being carried out temporarily. It is about us now, from the Riksdag and the Government, if the Riksdag decides on this budget, putting together a proper sack of money – SEK 5 1⁄2 billion – on the table for wise investments out in our small and large companies with positive present value that would still have been made. Now it is a discount on these investments if they are made in the near future and if you from the private side are part of the Swedish new start and in the investment-driven return. It is wise stimulus policy that builds the Swedish business community in the long term stronger. It is smart in the short as well as in the long term. Mr President, I would like to A substantial part of this budget is the effort made on regions and municipalities. We protect Swedish welfare in order not to end up in a situation where municipalities and regions are forced to major redundancies when they are already tough times economically. It is important to point out here that general efforts are being made, but that a number of sectoral initiatives are also being made. It's about care for the elderly, medical care and so on. However, these are not designed as the old and poor specially-destined contributions that were sought, received, rereported and, at worst, had to pay back. On the contrary, these activities are rapidly becoming operational. They can be used and worked with a minimum of bureaucracy and administration. They are based on existing regulations. It is based on existing agreements, and it is a smart way of ensuring that the money makes a difference for municipalities and regions as quickly as possible – with a minimum of administration, as I said. I have talked about a balance, a balance between investment and tax cuts. But it is also, of course, a question of balance between the different parts of the country. Infrastructure investments on broadband, roads and railways will be visible around Sweden, not least in our Swedish countryside. There has been concern that this budget would be a reduction in investment for rural areas by the fact that the rural development programme for a while was in danger of being reduced. Thanks to substantial additions, we are ensuring that there is now peace of mind for farmers and others who are pushing for rural development and that this work can continue in anticipation of the next long-term budget. We also take the opportunity to build a more sustainable Sweden when we are making major investments for the future of Sweden. It is about investments for negative emissions, to develop the bio-raw material and rather to use the Swedish forest to make more of what is being done today with the help of oil. Sweden will in every way become a more sustainable country thanks to the historical efforts now being made economically, socially and ecologically. It's a good chance to take. That is a wise perspective that is included in this budget. I'm going on parental leave now.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-223	Mr President, I would like to I really want to wish Emil Källström great months with his daughter. But before that, I thought we should talk about the budget. Actually, I have many questions for the Center Party and Emil Källström after reading this budget. I can't go into all the details, and I won't. I hear that Emil Källström is quite satisfied and think that this budget, where four parties have agreed, is a miracle of pragmatism and wisdom. The criticism from the rest of us, I think, is that there is no common story and that there is no common problem description. When you do not know and do not see what is the problem in Sweden, when you do not have land contact, it becomes a budget that does not really meet up with these problems. But that is not what I was going to ask Emil Källström about. I was going to ask you a fairly brief question. Nevertheless, the Center Party is the party that I think has really stood up for many years for the countryside and for people who live in the countryside and who depend on their car. Now we are helping a Social Democratic and environmentalist government. You don't just help it by holding it under your arms, even though it's failed in gang crime. It is also helped to make it rather more difficult for those who have a car and live in the country. It is a question of increased taxes on petrol and diesel and of a shock increase in vehicle taxes, so that ordinary wage earners outside the big cities who cannot use public transport actually pay for electric cars for people in the cities. Ordinary people who drive a car are thus involved in paying quite large bonuses for those who drive Tesla. In addition, it is planned to change the travel allowance, which will affect a great many people living in the country. The simple question is: Have the Center Party and the government made any calculations of how much costs actually increase for everyone who lives in the country and who is dependent on car?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-228	Mr President, I would like to You almost get the feeling that Elisabeth Svantesson has read a different budget than the one now presented. The great thing that is being done with regard to the taxation of petrol and diesel is that the so-called over-indexation is paused for the rest of the term of office. So it is essentially if not a tax reduction, at least the opposite of a tax increase, so to speak. These are changes that, on the contrary, keep down the prices at the pump. As for the other things that are done: There are some changes in the purchase of brand new cars. For example, it will be as beneficial to receive a salary in the form of a car as to receive a salary in the form of money, which I do not think is a very strange principle – quite the contrary. Then, at least, I think we are in complete agreement with regard to the reduction obligation and the involvement of biofuels, because the Moderates have been chasing us and others during the summer months to get a decision in place. There we now get a good and nice stairway until 2030, with proper environmental ambitions. So I do not recognise at all that this is a budget in which rural motorists will have a shock increase; therefore, one of the major changes is to hold back any price increases. It would therefore be interesting to hear what Elisabeth Svantesson really means when she asks that question, because this type of cost increase is not in the budget at all. Let me pass the ball back to Elisabeth Svantesson and say: Surely it is a good thing that we now jointly get a reduction obligation that means an increased involvement of biofuels in petrol and diesel! This is a very good step towards a more sustainable Sweden – right, Elisabeth Svantesson?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-232	Mr President, I would like to Yeah. But I still did not get an answer to the simple question I asked, Emil Källström, namely whether you have made any calculations on what the cost of the policy you actually present will be in the future. Emil Källström gets a little involved in overindexing. It is very good that you have paused it, Emil Källström – we Moderates are convinced that you need to ensure that those living in the country get lower taxes on fuel. We have said this before, and we will come back to that. But my point is that what it looks like now, for example with bonus– malus and the new system you come with, is that it is ordinary employees who are allowed to fund the big bonus to the very few people who can afford to buy these expensive cars. Many people in the country feel that this is very unfair. So not everyone can afford to buy those cars. My point is also that the travel deduction the Center Party is now planning for will affect very many people living in the country. I believe – and I know, because I talk to many people who live in the country – that the Center Party has left rural people who have a car completely to their fate.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-235	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson has to talk to other people than the ones I talk to, and I actually think I'm in Sweden's countryside more often than Elisabeth Svantesson is. But we can do that another time! Is it anyone who mixes away the cards is Elisabeth Svantesson. In other words, it is not Sweden's employees who are financing Tesla cars in any way, but it is about people buying new cars that are worse for the environment having to pay a malus fee. That money then goes to a bonus for those who buy new cars that are better for the environment. It is therefore a redistribution within the collective of people who buy brand new cars, and I think it is a fairly reasonable redistribution from what is bad for the environment to what is good for the environment. On the contrary, if you already have a car – if you bought a car two years ago or buy a used car – the big change is that we pause overindexation and that it is not more expensive to drive a car in the countryside. We don't get any thanks for that from Elisabeth Svantesson, but then you have to thank yourself. Good job, Center Party!
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-238	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say this: throwing money into the lake seems to be a parade for the Center Party. We remember Nuon and Postnord. We have sub-sales and privatisations, and now we have RUT. We also have the chaos privatisation of Arbetsförmedlingen, which has made Sweden much less equipped to face the high unemployment rate than it would otherwise have been. It seems that the main point is that taxpayers should finance the activities of private companies; that is the thing, not that it would be good for the unemployed or for rural areas or that we would increase employment. Then there are the eternal reductions in the social security contributions for young people. How many times have we tried it now — one, two, three, four? Is it the case for a center party that you have to do something three or four times to sink in? Repetition is the mother of knowledge, or what do you say? Magdalena Andersson wisely once said that the bourgeois parties tested their action in two terms and received a receipt that it did not meet the standards. They will hardly want to revive such a costly and ineffective policy, she said. That's very wise, I must say. The Prime Minister has called the action of billions and billions and idiotism, and I fully agree. Today's industry wrote this week that it was a well-documented poor reform and very expensive. I agree with that, too. Therefore, I was going to ask: How much will these inefficient and costly reforms cost the taxpayer before you are satisfied, Emil Källström?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-241	Mr President, I would like to It is impressively offensive by a socialist to ask the question how long you have to test something before you realize that it is totally unsuccessful. In almost all countries where socialism has been fully tested, it has ended with coup d'état, starvation, revolutions, bread queues and other typically bad things. Reducing employers' contributions for young people has neither of these effects, but on the contrary it has at most meant that there have been more jobs for young people. It has also meant more jobs for others, because the money from these tax cuts that is not going to create more jobs for young people works as a general stimulus and means that others also get jobs. This was discussed as late as spring 2019 in a study published in The American Economic Review. So we think that the state of research still indicates that this is a wise measure – especially in combination with other things, such as training efforts, tax cuts for increased investment and things that I mentioned. I am fully aware that in principle all opinions on the spectrum regarding the view of young people's employers' contributions each have their research report to refer to, so to speak, so if we are to be generous, we can say that the research situation is still a little unclear. But we believe in this – as part of a temporary crisis policy and as part of a whole where other things are also done, this is good and, above all, quickly implementable policy. It is no coincidence that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has now gone forward with this as one of the main requirements, because it focuses precisely on those industries that have the most employees. It is also the industries that have been the toughest in recent months. However, this thing with socialism rarely or never leads to anything good, Ulla Andersson. When are you going to reconsider your image of socialism?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-245	Mr President, I would like to I understand that it is difficult to defend such a reform when each job costs as much as four jobs. That is how it happened last time, and it did not reduce unemployment among young people either – quite the opposite. Youth unemployment rose when this reform was introduced, extended and extended, under the bourgeois government. So it has been very expensive. I understand that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise wants the reform; it's like 9 billion directly to the corporate owners' pockets – to the Ica dealers or the owners of the hamburger chains. That's what it actually looks like. This is a very costly, inefficient and expensive reform, Emil Källström. Just listen to what your partner party is saying. No one believes in this, but it is you who have had some kind of neo-liberal playhouse in public finances. We cannot afford this, but we must use every penny effectively to push unemployment down. We can't just throw them right into the lake like this.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-247	Mr President, I would like to Left-wing parties usually describe everything they think is bad as a neo-liberalism. But all that is usually something that left-wing parties think is bad actually quite good, so when Ulla Andersson thinks that reduced social security contributions are neo-liberal I feel a little more confident that it is probably quite wise policy to implement. What we are trying to achieve by reducing taxes – to increase investment and activity in the economy – and also by investing in education – is to save today's generation of young people from unemployment. It's one of the most important things in the pot right now. What will happen to those entering the labour market now, during or shortly after the Corona crisis? They deserve us to work in every way we can to get a job to go to. This budget does, and that is very good.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-249	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström stood here and had coffee a little after thanks, so I have to start by thanking Emil Källström in general and especially for a spring when we have been able to cooperate well on crisis policy. This has been valuable to Sweden, so thank you for that! I was not going to torment Emil Källström with everything in the budget that I know he dislikes, like inefficient building subsidies, heavy weakening of the work line or anything like that, but I was going to discuss what the Center Party has put forward as its flagship in this budget. It is about the reduction of the social security contribution for young people, which has been mentioned here before and which costs SEK 18 billion over just over two years. It has been tried by the Alliance, and it has been condemned by a lot of evaluators. It is true that there has been some report that has been a little less negative, but then it has not been the job effects that have been specifically highlighted, but instead a capital injection to companies that have had some positive effects. However, it is a rather long detour to go through precisely the reduced employer's contribution for young people in order to get such an injection. One difference when the Alliance reduced the employers' contribution for young people was that the young made up 21 per cent of the unemployed – it was 21 per cent of the unemployed who were hit by the reform. Today it is about 10% that is being hit by this reform; the other 90% of the unemployed do not even get a theoretical share of this reform. I wonder if this changes Emil Källström's view of the reform. Shouldn't there be stronger cuts? I do not want socialism, but I want stronger incentives for companies to employ in this crisis. It is also a question of this coming into place only on 1 April. The Minister of Finance said it's for processing purposes, but it's not going to work. It is clear that it is possible to do this retroactively, as did the January parties themselves this spring. At that time, the Parliament decided in April on the reduction of employers' contributions, which took effect from 1 March. These are the two things that I would like answers to – why not in April, and to what extent?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-256	Mr President, I would like to Had it been possible to get this in place a little earlier, it would not have been bad, but I think it is still close enough for it to be substantial and powerful. It kicks in well before the next summer season, when a lot of young people come out and take their first steps on the labour market. The previous reports and evaluations of the reduction in employers' contributions for young people are hampered by their being carried out during a burning financial crisis. It was very difficult to get a reasonable basis to investigate and to get reasonable and fair results. Now that we have a slightly fuller picture of the research situation, I think there is much more to go on. What Jakob says is right – the more positive evaluations point to a broader palette of positive effects of this. I do not think it is bad in any way; on the contrary, I see a self-worth in that this is both good for those who employ young people and act as a general stimulus for business. It does not speak to the detriment of the reform – rather the opposite. I also do not buy the description that this would be very complicated. On the contrary, it is a fairly direct and simple way of stimulating businesses. This applies to all companies that have employees, not just those that make profits, as on the corporate tax side. This is a good, straight and reasonable stimulus. That is not the only thing that is being done either. As I mentioned, this is part of a whole with tax cuts for investment, different types of labour market policy measures and a major investment in education. The whole will be very good, with a heavy tax reduction leg but also other types of efforts to save today's youth generation from unnecessary unemployment.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-261	Mr President, I would like to I think, even with Källström's answer, that this does not really hold up on the basis of the criteria that Emil Källström himself mentioned here earlier. It shall be quickly feasible measures. This is quickly feasible, but the January parties still choose to implement it only on 1 April. The crisis is here and now! The persistence effect of unemployment occurs in three to four months. It's not good enough to wait until April 1st. If we now believe that it has a major impact on unemployment, we will do so with retroactiveness, so that it will apply from now on. The second is that although it is a substantial reduction in taxation, it is not effective. There must be better ways, I believe, to use the tax instrument than on something that has actually not really worked. I would like to ask Emil Källström : Does Emil Källström not see a risk that you give tax reductions a bad name
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-265	Mr President, I would like to It's nice that others can be fun too, so I don't have to pull that load all by myself! When there are two points of criticism and one point can be summed up which is not doing this, while the other point is that we should do it much faster, it is difficult to really know which bone to stand on. It also seems that Jakob Forssmed has some difficulty deciding which of the criticism tracks he should choose. Looking at the overall picture of this budget and all the things that are being done – tax cuts for investments, cuts in employers' contributions, tax cuts for all our households and, furthermore, all the efforts made in terms of early investments and other expenditure – I see that it will be a good and robust recovery budget. Are there details that could have been done differently? Absolutely, but on the whole this is something that will benefit Sweden and will be a good continuation of a very special crisis management year. If it's good for Sweden, I'm good for it.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-268	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the sign interpreters for their important work in the debate. Then I would like to say that I was so delighted to hear that the restraining order in the care of the elderly would be lifted. I called Mom right away. She went straight down to her friend, and they immediately began to plan for what was to come. The joy of this is great. The pandemic has well shown us all what is important in life — that our loved ones are healthy and well, and that we are allowed to be with them. However, the pandemic has also shown how fragile society is and how fragile it has become when the collective has shrunk in the neoliberal spirit, when the nurses are allowed to carry the care of the elderly on their shoulders, when the sick have been secured and forced to the social office, and when reduced taxes, sales and privatisations have been prioritised before the needs of the elderly and our common needs. In the home care service, older people have been able to have as many as 25 different people during a two-week period, since underfunded elderly care is staffed with fixed-term workers, timvikari and part-time – employees who run in and out on an eternal minute hunt and who, during the crisis, have shown to increase the risk of infection for the old. This is an elderly care where they did not hire until the other year, which in itself says a lot, got the right to work clothes, and then on the initiative of the Left Party. Of course, there is an increase in the budget now, but unfortunately that will not make any difference. The mine hunt will continue – microbox in and out and hello is the everyday life that continues. Instead, imagine an elderly care where there is time to take advantage of the old ones' abilities, where they are allowed to participate in activities they want and where they can come out or just sit down in peace and quiet and have a cup of coffee when the assistant nurse comes from the home service. Of course, the effort to train more nurses is good and necessary, but there is also a need for better wages and working conditions and for us to get rid of certain periods and shared tours. None of it is in this budget. The Prime Minister has scanned the world's best elderly care, but the risk is that it will be an empty air castle. Tax cuts seem to have again won over well-being and care for the elderly. When this crisis came, we had far too few health workers, too few care places and responsors and no emergency stocks at all. Healthcare workers in emergency hospitals have worked under great pressure and under constant so-called efficiency improvements, i.e. cuts. Now they have also had to make their own visors of overhead paper. There are many of us who have lifted and applauded the heroic efforts of health workers and their demands for higher wages and better working conditions. These are perfectly reasonable and well-deserved demands. What we have in common is supposed to be the finest thing we have. It should be seen that this is what we value and appreciate. But the budget did not give healthcare workers the impact it deserves, nor did the preschool staff who have taken care of the children when the parents have saved lives on covids. Health care received a temporary state grant – as if the lack of a place of care, poor working conditions and lack of co-workers were temporary. It seems to be the applause that will have to be thanked, because the cuts will unfortunately continue – we can read that out of the budget proposal – and the tax cuts will be permanent. And you know what? Actually, it's connected. Tax cuts undermine the long-term financing of welfare. And not one more crown got the economic elite in society pay to the welfare, for their welfare and woe always comes first. But the employees of the welfare will have to continue to rush and hunt to catch up, at the price of run - out bodies. But the director who had a 2 1⁄2 million tax cut this year will now be able to sit back in the chair, while the tax-subsidised maid runs with the vacuum cleaner and gently asks him to lift his feet so that she can access. He sits there enjoying that he will now also receive a grant to have someone who washes for him or pulls around his furniture on the gigantic floor when he wants to redecorate. A grant cap would have been something for wealthy directors and the financial elite. But it now seems as unreasonable for Social Democrats as it does for Moderates. Mr President, I would like to Chaos privatisation of the Public Employment Service is another example of neo-liberal ideas that have had a major impact on the unemployed. Rural areas, hard hit by unemployment, are now without local offices. And the employees at the agency, who are too few for the workload they have, must, in addition to their regular duties, train new private companies that they have had to hire, because whether these companies are better at the effort or not, it should be privatised. It's like that's the purpose. The companies are to be supported by taxpayers. The price is paid mainly by those who are far from the labour market, i.e. people with short education and people with disabilities. But the Center Party is very pleased, and the Liberals let the disabled pay the price. Sweden is apparently supposed to be a tax haven for the rich. Sweden is unique, because there is no other modern country that has no inheritance, gift or wealth tax. In addition, we have low corporate tax and unreasonably low taxes for Ica dealers, lawyers and venture capitalists, who pay a significantly lower proportion of their income in tax than the assistant nurse and business assistant do. No other country than Sweden also has a property tax that makes no difference to a giant 20-room villa on Djursholm and a small wooden cottage in Bollnäs. It is as insane as it sounds and increases inequality in our country. Unfortunately, Sweden now has the least redistributive tax system among the EU's 15 core countries. While Sweden has become a tax haven for rich people, 100,000 children grow up in poverty, in families where a new winter jacket is a luxury and where a room is an unattainable dream. We also have a lack of housing and a great deal of overcrowding among many families with children. Then the government and the so-called new bourgeois partners give working-age people with high income tax rebates, because these full-bodied people are unable to clean their own homes and for the political ambition to always put the best in the first place. But we should have learned a long time ago that the crumbs from the rich are not good enough for the Swedish people. Mr President, I would like to Climate change is a threat to all of us, most of all to the poorest countries and people living there. We in the rich world have lived our lives in a way that has caused us to put the entire planet in a deep, threatening crisis. That is why young people, rightly, are demonstrating around the world. Despite all the warning signs, there seem to be parties that do not take the environmental and climate threat seriously. Here there are those who are fighting for us to continue as before – no less driving, Preem will of course get permission to release more, tax subsidies to the fossil fuel it should be and we will have a small nuclear power plant in every small village. In this budget there are many welcome green reforms: b local fossil subsidies, support for biogas and wetlands, green credit guarantees and increased rail maintenance. But imagine what a large, comprehensive and green investment plan could have done for sustainability, climate and jobs. S tora housing investments in energy efficient rentals, in retirement homes and schools, reconstruction programmes for the million-dollar programmes, expansion of solar cells and wind power on public buildings, new electricity cable to Gotland, completion of the Norrbotnia railway, renovation of the Inland railway, major investments in public transport, shipping and more had made a real difference, because when a larger share of the economy goes to joint investments rather than to the rich's luxury consumption, emissions are reduced, and support for the transformation is increasing. We in the Left Party want Sweden to become once again the world's most equal country, because we know that economic equality is good for a country's development. In equal societies, health is better, security is greater and economic growth is higher. There, school outcomes and creativity are also positively affected, and equality between women and men is further advanced. So what are we waiting for?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-285	Mr President, I would like to We come from a spring and summer that has put humanity to the test. Both Sweden and the world have been exposed to something we have not seen before. It has been a tough time that we have had to go through, especially for those people who have suffered ill health, who have lost someone in the pandemic or who have fought for their life's work, for their employees, for their workplaces and for their activities to make life work as well as possible at all. The government has made some good efforts during the spring. I am pleased that we have been able to cooperate in the Swedish Parliament to get on-site crisis support that has saved jobs and workplaces that people loved and that have been very important to them. Now it is getting bright in some places, but the situation in Sweden and the world is still very difficult and difficult. Although it has improved, there are great risks in the current situation. Perhaps the biggest problem is that unemployment persists at historically high levels, and we know that there are very big problems in terms of ill-health and exclusion. It can add to other social problems as unemployment spreads, and it can contribute to loneliness and isolation for additional people in our country. This is to be added to the problems that were very clear when we entered this crisis. We have care lines to which we now add a care debt and an elderly care that did not have the right conditions to operate, which affected both those who worked in elderly care and also those who received care from elderly care. We have a crime that has escalated for many years. Not least robbery of children and deadly violence have increased very strongly. We have a civil society that has stretched out a hand in this crisis but which itself has been hit very hard by economic problems. We are now seeing high unemployment, a bnp case to be recovered, low investment and low productivity. Now we must take Sweden through the economic crisis with investment – both public and private – and with job reforms, so that unemployment is not allowed to get stuck. As I said at the beginning, the government did some good things during the spring: the removal of sick pay, increased credit facilities, a turnover subsidy – although it had to be dragged to that position – which saved many companies and a lay-off subsidy that was very valuable to many employees. However, I have mentioned several times in this House what I think is offensive, namely that, while legislation on lay-off aid was being presented, a rule was also introduced which obliges companies to lay off temporary staff in order to obtain support for their permanent staff. 83 500 companies have been asked when they applied for state aid in the crisis: Have you laid off enough? If you haven't done that, it'll be no on your application. This goes directly against international crisis experience and directly against the investigations that were carried out when the lay-off aid was laid down in Swedish legislation. I find this astounding and something that has actually made the position of those who were the weakest in the labour market more difficult and weaker. As I said, this is offensive. Now we need to put in place reforms that reverse these developments and ensure that unemployment is broken. I do not really see those reforms in this budget. There are reduced social security contributions for young people. They'll be there in April. There is a job tax deduction that is expected to lead to increased search activity and that it pays better to work. The payment of the job tax credit comes to midsummer 2022, so they dots v arken to be a powerful incentive for work or to stimulate the business cycle. This is what it looks like in the area by area. This is not sufficiently worked out. There are not strong enough reforms for every employer in this country to say: From now on, there is strong support that makes me want to hire someone more in my business. It is good to have clear contributions to municipalities and regions and to welfare activities in this situation. It would have reinforced the crisis if it had not happened, so that municipalities and regions would have had to lay off staff. But leadership is also needed. It requires a plan for coping with the health debt that has now been built up. Why should we believe that the government can do this when it did not pass the care queues after it took office in 2014? On the contrary, they were allowed to double first visits to specialists. Mr President, I would like to I like compromises. I think that they normally and often take politics forward. But I think the compromises here have failed. In this sense, it has become an uncompromising budget. There has been no improvement in each other's proposals. Rather, they have been allowed to pass, and so the budget has been divided. Everyone has been able to stand at their own press meetings and boast with their own favorite reforms. No one has really taken responsibility for the whole. Thus, much of the inefficient policies have re-emerged: building subsidies, youth discounts, green jobs and climate change that have previously been condemned as ineffective. This is a multi-billion-dollar issue. If the budget had been less, these investments would have been much tougher. When you are in a government position, it is a special responsibility at the Ministry of Finance to try to make even the policy that you do not yourself celebrate as well as possible. If you are going to make a job tax deduction, it is better that it is in place on 1 January, so that you have a cyclically stimulating effect and so that there are driving forces to work directly, instead of saying to the Ministry of Finance: This is not a priority – we get to implement it when possible; oh, it was not possible to pay it out until 2022. I think you have a responsibility to do even what you don't like as well as at all. As I said, Mr President, I do not have a clear plan for health care. I also miss the really powerful job reforms. It is good that public investment is now being made and that there are incentives for more private investment, but that will not be enough when at the same time the work line is being weakened. There is a risk that unemployment will bite down. Not least, no one has taken responsibility for the whole. No one has taken responsibility for the functioning of all law enforcement authorities and for doing what they can to combat serious crime. With the small contributions that come to the Prosecutor's Office, there is a risk that they will have to resign prosecutors in the coming years rather than do what they have planned, namely to expand their activities in order to keep pace with police expansion and to be able to lead all the preliminary investigations we want to see. The same is true of the courts, which also receive a very small contribution. Someone has to take responsibility for the whole functioning, that it works with law enforcement, that there is a plan for health debt and not just more money and that there is a long-term commitment to make elderly care work far better. It is not wrong with the resource supplements that are now coming to elderly care. I think they are very welcome, and it is good that they are carried out with perseverance and permanence. However, I think it is worth recalling that just over a year ago, in the first agreement of the January parties, resources were removed for welfare and care for the elderly. The whole focus on increased community and social content in care for the elderly was removed. The whole investment in a good staff continuity was also removed. It should not be implemented, as stated in the bill. This was not replaced by anything else – not increased general support, not any other efforts for elderly care – but just deleted it. It was just over a year ago. Mr President, I would like to What's needed now? Well, now we need rapid, broad, yet accurate measures to counter and face the high unemployment rate so that it does not get stuck. Measures are needed to bring forward employment and to get every employer to think, and I can hire someone today, so that we do not have these effects when unemployment is getting stuck. More reforms are needed for investment in business, so that productivity can return. Health care requires not only resources, but also increased governance and increased national leadership. We need to focus on the long-term shortcomings of care for the elderly, cope with the situation of the staff and the situation of the care recipients, so that it becomes better. You should be able to meet each other, look each other in the eye and build relationships in the important business. We also have to deal with the crimes. The law enforcement authorities must be given sufficient tools and tools to manage their activities. In two weeks' time, the Christian Democrats will put their draft budget on Parliament's table. Then we will face these challenges.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-303	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats were once a party with which we in the Green Party shared many values. It was not long ago that we stood side by side in the fight for a more humane society and for solidarity with vulnerable people. In 2005 we worked together for a refugee amnesty. We have been reminded of human dignity in many debates where life has become figures. We have stood up for Sweden to do everything we can to create better conditions for people around the world. But this part of Christian democracy appears to have disappeared or at least to be in hibernation. A few weeks ago, when Ebba Busch launched the party's latest aid proposal, that picture was confirmed too well. The idea that Sweden will use 1.8 billion of our aid money to build prisons where people who have committed crimes in Sweden will be placed is absurd. Swedish aid should go to strengthening development in poor countries, helping people in need, fighting poverty and strengthening democracy and human rights in the world. I would also like to point out the insensitivity of presenting this proposal right now. The Pandemine is hitting the world's poor hard. More and more reports indicate that the development of the world's poor is alarming. Years of progress is in the process of falling apart. Does Jakob Forssmed not see that this proposal undermines the integrity of Swedish development policy? Does Jakob Forssmed mean that the need to combat poverty has decreased over the past year?
i-Yx9yfZv75VjracuVpT89U	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karolina Skog, for the question! Like Karolina Skog, I see a great need to make efforts in the world. Poverty risks returning in many countries where it has been pushed back for a long time. This has been partly due to aid, partly due to trade and transparency. They are at risk in a pandemic when countries close borders, when people can no longer be disposed of for their products and when investments are not made in countries. There are many who warn against this. I have read several reports both this spring and now that say that hunger can come back in a way that we have not seen before and that poverty can re-emerge. What we thought was repressed could come back as an effect of the pandemic. We have also seen that many countries have reduced their levels of aid quite substantially in recent years. I'm not one of those people who pleads for it to be done. We shall still have high and generous aid. We in Sweden can afford that. It is also the view of the Christian Democrats that Sweden should set aside 1 per cent of GDP in aid. As far as the specific outcome is concerned, I think there are two things to be distinguished. The first is to support countries to improve their judicial system. Institution building enables you to cope with that kind of thing. This is something that Sweden is already doing what I understand, among other things in Kenya. There we are helping to improve the judiciary and also prisons. Then there was another part that is about the Prison Service to provide resources to solve site shortages in Sweden and then also be able to buy prisons abroad in different countries where it might be appropriate. Sometimes it may be appropriate in citizens' countries of origin that they are still to be expelled to later. Of course, these prisons are of sufficient quality.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-311	Madam President, I would like Among other things, Bill Gates has highlighted Swedish development policy as an example just during the pandemic, in the first because we have managed to maintain and maintain the level. During the pandemic, poorer people have become poorer. The vaccine coverage has been greatly reduced. Many children have lost the right to go to school. The use of aid as an internal political bat is incredibly cynical. I'll give Jakob Forssmed an opportunity to perhaps clear up a misunderstanding. Have we misunderstood everything? Is not the proposal that we use Swedish aid money for the new proposal to fund prisons? Is this a misunderstanding? In that case, it is possible to sort it out now.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-314	Madam President, I would like I explained the proposal here in the speaker's chair just now. I won't do it again. However, I am happy to tell Karolina Skog again that we shall have high and effective aid. We will live up to OECD-DAC criteria for what is aid. It is about to go to strengthening the capacity of the beneficiary countries to combat poverty. That is the central task of aid. I remember a few years ago when Karolina Skog completely unaccounted for in this House reduced aid by many hundred million SEK. There was not even a basis for doing this. The way in which this reduction had been achieved was not visible to the Riksdag. I think many people have reason to think about how they acted in aid policy and also Karolina Skog.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-318	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It has been a serious spring in which Swedish politics has appeared from its very best side. We have jointly worked together to ensure that health care works, to avoid as many bankruptcies as are possible and to ensure that mass unemployment does not take root. As we enter the autumn, the everyday life of many people is a little more back. Some who were laid off last spring have now gone back to work. Some people who worked at home during the spring have now started to come back to work a little bit anyway. Our older ones can now visit elderly homes. Those who recently retired can hopefully finally meet their grandchildren. Every day begins to come back very slowly. At the same time, there is concern in our surrounding world about both the spread of infection and economic development. This means that unemployment risks being very high in Sweden as well. Of course, for a small export-dependent country like Sweden, what happens in Sweden is important. But it is at least as important for the economy what happens in other countries. Madam President, I would like This budget prioritises welfare. It is about more money for general state grants to municipalities and regions. This means that municipalities and regions do not have to lay off employees, and it also means that welfare can work better. It is about targeted initiatives for elderly care. They now make sure that those who work in elderly care know the Swedish language, which has been a major flaw in the past, and make sure to raise skills in elderly care. There are bets on LSS. That's not as much as the Liberals would have wanted. But it is a first step in the right direction when it comes to improving assistance in Sweden for those who need support from society. Anyone in greatest need of support from society is now getting a little better support through this budget. It's not quite what the Liberals would have wanted. Nevertheless, it is a step in the right direction. Madam President, I would like In the spring and autumn and just as recently as in the debate here today, I have heard a rhetoric that is trying to put up a big conflict between welfare on the one hand and small businesses on the other. I think this spring and autumn show how our society works. Everything is connected, and we're all dependent on each other. If unemployment rises, businesses go bankrupt and small businesses resign the employee they have had for a long time, it will slowly mean that the money for welfare will disappear because the number of taxpayers will be reduced. What we need in Sweden is not higher taxes. We need more taxpayers. That's how we fund our common welfare. We have been able to see in the spring that people have claimed that companies should have a little higher margins. We have had politicians who say that it is time for companies to pay back. We're not gonna throw money in the lake for the companies. It is like that entrepreneurs are not taxpayers like all other people, like entrepreneurs have not been involved in building up this country and that entrepreneurs have not paid very much tax to also have the right to receive support in the middle of the crisis, just like employees and many others get support in the middle of the crisis. There is no competition in saying that entrepreneurs are more important than well-being or that welfare is more important than entrepreneurs. Both things are needed for our welfare society to be intact and we will be able to develop our common welfare. Madam President, I would like That is why this budget is very important. It contains short-term measures which should nevertheless be referred to as emergency measures. But it also includes long-term reforms that allow jobs to grow. We are introducing lower employers' contributions for small businesses for those who employ one or two employees. The step is often very big to do so. You have your own business and you're enough to get your pay off. You get more and more customers and would like to let your small business grow. But the step of hiring a first or other employee is very big. This is facilitated by a substantial reduction in employers' contributions for small businesses. The companies are the job creators in Swedish society. The employer's contribution is reduced for those who employ young people up to 23 years of age. It is important not least in this situation when we see an increase in youth unemployment. We see that many of the industries that are now affected or affected by government recommendations – commerce, hotels and restaurants – are industries that employ a great many young people. There is now an injection in terms of a reduced employer's contribution. A job tax deduction is introduced, which means that the work line is valid. It pays better to work than to live on benefits. Madam President, I would like While we have the Corona crisis, it is not the case that the social problems that Sweden had before the crisis have disappeared just because the crisis is here. It is the opposite in some cases. They're amplified. It provides dependency, as we see in some groups in vulnerable areas where there are far too many people who don't work and where children don't see the connection between Mom and Dad working and there is food on the table at night. This connection is not there. Rather, this trend is intensifying now after the crisis compared to what it was like before the crisis. The problems we had before the crisis are becoming clearer now after the crisis. It is about the problems we have at school where the children learn too little and where things are messy in the classrooms. Children who want to learn things in the classroom are slowed down because other students are too messy and constantly interfere with the lessons and make you can't learn anything. This is true of the trends we see in growing differences in results for children and in how much you learn in school depending on which school you go to. This is true of the differences between those who come home to a home where Mom and Dad help with their homework and those who come home to a home where Mom and Dad are not in a position to do so. This difference grows as the gaps in school performance grow. The development we have seen in our vulnerable suburbs is continuing, and the integration debt that Sweden has already created and that has grown strong for many years risks only getting bigger and bigger. This guilt also lies in the fact that it is in these environments that extremism – religious and, for that matter, political extremism – and crime is growing strong. We see how honour repression, clan crime and criminal gangs make the security of society as a whole, but especially in vulnerable areas, far too small. People feel insecure, and people do not feel that the basic security of society is there. It's dangerous. Madam President, I would like We are making many efforts in this budget to break the development of the affected areas. It's about special efforts to learn the language already in preschool, it's about more police and it's about a variant of a national census that means that we get more knowledge about which people are in Sweden and thus can also avoid overcrowding, which is a big problem. It is an arsenal of measures in which we take the first step to break the worrying development we have in our vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like This budget also includes efforts to improve and modernise the Swedish economy in the long term. In a crisis, it is important not only to solve the acute crisis that is here and now, but also to try to face the problems that we see waiting behind the crisis. It is about the climate – that the Swedish economy and the Swedish society should be changed and become more climate-friendly. It is about investing in research so that we as a country do not compete with low wages, but by inventing and finding new products and services that we sell all over the world. This is what makes Sweden a stronger country. It is about our companies having the courage to invest – that we lower corporate tax so that more companies dare to invest both in physical machines and in employees with high skills and high development. We improve the expert tax, and the R & D deduction is extended. Step after step is taken to ensure that we also build the Swedish economy stronger in the long term. Madam President, I would like From the Liberals' side, it has been important to stand up in the budget for the work line, for the school, to tackle integration debt and to put the climate high on the agenda. In this budget, we take the first steps to make Sweden a better country. Everything is not perfect; it is not in a budget. But important first steps are taken to make Sweden a more modern country and to make our society safer and better. That's how we take responsibility for Sweden in a tough time.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-345	Madam President, I would like The most important task of a government is to ensure that citizens, those living in the country, are safe. They must be safe in terms of external threats and pressures, but also in terms of internal security. This government has failed in this task. In recent years, developments have really gone in the wrong direction. It is humiliating robbery, killings, rapes and torture in a cemetery – the list can be long. The things that have happened are unpleasant and terrible for those who have been affected. Liberals have chosen to support a government that fails in all of this. You hold it under your arms, Mats Persson. It's your choice, and it's up to you. However, what I expect from the Liberals in such a situation is that when they negotiate for SEK 105 billion, they also ensure that parts of the judiciary receive the funds they need. We know, for example, that among the prosecutors it is an incredibly tough situation right now. The workload is very high. Some will stop because they simply cannot cope with their assignments. At the same time, resources are too scarce to hire more people. It's a very, very tough situation. I ask myself, how could this happen? Why haven't the Liberals taken the fight for more resources to the District Attorney's Office? Why do you not correct the error that you started last year?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for the commitment you show to these issues! I would like to start by saying that I welcome the commitment and look forward to the Liberals and the Moderates working more together in justice policy. We've done it, and we're doing it. We are working together to ensure that more severe penalties are imposed in Sweden. On several occasions we have been able to form a majority in the Riksdag, which has led the government to come back with proposals for tougher penalties and better powers for the judiciary. I think that is very important, and I sometimes think it is almost provocative to see how far behind Sweden it is when it comes to the police and the judiciary's ability to tackle crime. I think there is a lot to learn from our neighbouring country, Denmark, in particular, when it comes to this. I therefore look forward to working more with the Moderates, and for that matter with all the other parties, in getting tougher penalties and giving more powers to the judiciary. As far as the money is concerned, the budget contains substantial efforts on the judicial system; nothing else can be said. There is more money for the police, and it is actually more money for all the authorities within the law enforcement authorities. I think that's important. On the Liberal side, we have not least felt it was important to ensure that early efforts are made to avoid the criminal gangs attracting children and young people and involving them in crime. It now adds money to the municipalities, which will be able to use them to LVU-place more children. The municipalities are now getting economic muscles to do this, and I think that is an important contribution to ensuring that children simply end up in the hands of gang criminals. The budget includes a great deal of effort on the judicial system. We will have to come back later, because this is a task that will take many years to solve. But we are taking a first step in this budget.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-357	Madam President, I would like But the money for the prosecutors that would be needed is not in this budget. That's my question. It is good that together we can push the government and develop a better legal policy. Unfortunately, the government is far too slow even when we make great demands on it. It matters who rules, if you say so. In this case, however, of these 105 billion, the Prosecution Authority has not received the additional resources that they would need, and they have indeed called for more money. We must seriously ensure that people are prosecuted. The police are doing their job. Then the prosecutors must be able to do their job, and then the Prison Service must have the resources. There must be places so that it will not be as in the various examples we have now been talking about, where criminal cases are delayed and convicted people are out on the streets committing new crimes. The DA needs more money. That was a very specific question, and I would like a specific answer.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-361	Madam President, I would like We make the assessment that the money in the budget is sufficient for the justice system. That's what we're doing right now. But if it should turn out later – later in the autumn or next year – that more money needs to be spent on the judiciary, I think there are eight parties in the Swedish Parliament who are prepared to do so in this situation. But the assessment that is being made here and now is that there is a lot of money being passed on to the judiciary and that it meets the needs that exist. But we need this together, all the parties in this House, to take responsibility for and follow closely. Should it turn out later that more money is needed, the Liberals will not hesitate to ensure that more money comes.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-364	Madam President, I would like Mats Persson says that this budget is a first step towards making Sweden better. One can say calmly that the previous budget did not make Sweden any better. At the time, there were 6 billion tax cuts to the wealthiest in society and 600 million to elderly care. There wasn't much that got better with it, if I say so, rather the opposite. The Liberals were once a social liberal party that turned to education. Nowadays they seem to be a neo-liberal party wrangling for the owners of the school companies. Liberal school policy has built a school system that no other country in the world wants. This system has had a major impact on the development of society as a whole. Segregated schools, grading inflation, selection of pupils, extremists as school owners, tax money used to fatten school companies' owners and managers, schools that are seen as business secrets where we now only find out what addresses they are on, tax money used to build schools in dictatorships – there is a lot to be phased out in this school system. So do the Liberals themselves at times. For example, the Liberals have been upset, rightly, that extremists are allowed to conduct school activities and be paid for it by taxpayers, even though it is an effect of the school system they themselves have built up. On the other hand, I never hear any liberal horror over all the money being taken out of school that would have gone to the pupils' education or the teachers' salaries. I thought I'd hear how Mats Persson views this. Now you have to put more money in for the school. Then there is a great risk that some of that money will go to Sheiks in Kuwait, because they are co-owners of the English School, to school building in Saudi Arabia or the Middle East, as the Knowledge School is doing, or to new schools in Spain, as the English School is doing. How does Mats Persson view this? Is that a problem, or is this how it's supposed to be?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-368	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson really doesn't like English School. A lot of students and parents like English School very much. It means to many to come to a school where there is order. It means to many to come to a school where you focus on learning things. It means to many students and parents that you feel secure in the school environment because there are clear rules that all relate to. Now I took English School as an example. There are many other free schools that are as popular and that meet exactly the same criteria as the English School, so let's not make this a debate about a single free school group. I think it's good that people themselves, parents and students together, can choose which school to go to. I think it's bad that you only have one alternative. I think it is bad when the local village school is closed and the parents cannot start a cooperative or a business that replaces it. I think you should use the power of people choosing their own school. Does that mean, then, that taxpayers' money should go to schools that teach the opposite of evolution? No. Does this mean that religious extremism and schools that encourage it should receive tax money? No. Does this mean that you should not have transparency and not be able to have access to statistics available in free schools or public schools? No. I understand that this is difficult for Ulla Andersson, but everything in society is not black or white. There's not a bad businessman here and a good left-wing party that gives money there. There's a gray scale somewhere in between. I think we should protect the system we have, where children and parents can choose their own school. However, we will see to it that the degeneratives that exist, such as religious extremism, can thrive.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-374	Madam President, I would like Of course, students and parents can choose schools, but they can do that even without the owners having to enrich themselves to the extent that they now do – right? However, it cannot be the profit itself that should be the purpose of the school business. I notice that Mats Persson does not answer my question. Is it reasonable for us to pay tax money to Sheiks in Kuwait who are partners in the privatised schools, or for our tax money to be spent on building schools in dictatorships like Saudi Arabia or other countries in the Middle East? I can't think so. I think that tax money we pay for children's education here in Sweden should also go to children's education here in Sweden. It cannot be reasonable at any point that this is not the case.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-376	Madam President, I would like Sometimes I think Ulla Andersson and I live on two completely different planets. When you add money to school in my world, it means that the school can pay out salaries to the teachers, develop the business and make sure that more people can apply to these very popular and attractive free schools that many children and students want to apply to. This means that Swedish school is getting better. It is difficult to argue that the English School, for example, has systematically contributed to impairing school performance in the Swedish school. I think most people perceive that it is exactly the opposite. It's order, it's focus on learning things in school and it's safe environments for children to grow up and go to school in. That is something that is in demand and is good. Does this mean that we should encourage religious extremism? Absolutely not!
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-379	Madam President, I would like I think it has also become clear to Mats Persson that I and the Christian Democrats have some views on this budget and its ability to meet the major challenges Sweden faces, not least in terms of jobs, breaking unemployment, coping with health debt, coping with the major challenges and problems of elderly care for staff and users and combating crime. I think it is worth noting that the judicial authorities do not get what they want and feel they need to be able to fight crime at this time. It believes that it has 105 billion at its disposal, but is unable to give the tens of millions it is about to the prosecutors in order to continue to expand and get a better situation and not, as is now the case, to risk having to resign the prosecutors. The budget is one thing. But there is also another dimension to this, and that is that the budget cooperation enables the current leadership in Sweden. I have noticed that both Mats Persson and not least Nyamko Sabuni during the spring have questioned Stefan Lövven's and the government's ability to lead Sweden in this crisis. It could almost be said that leadership has been condemned. It doesn't matter who's sitting at the joysticks. It matters who is going to implement budgetary policy, who is going to develop the plan for the real impact of healthcare money, who is going to fight crime and who is going to ensure that reforms are put in place so that unemployment does not get stuck. In view of the statements this spring, my question to Mats Persson is: How does Mats Persson come to the conclusion that it is this government that is the best to lead Sweden out of the crisis?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-384	Madam President and Jakob Forssmed. I believe that many people in the situation that Sweden and the world are now in expect us to take responsibility. In March, when the Corona outbreak came to Europe and thus also to Sweden, I think the worst thing that could have happened would have been that Sweden had announced a new election in that situation. The very best thing in that situation was to take responsibility, and we have done this together, eight parties in Parliament, to ensure that we deal with the Corona crisis. In this situation, it is important to ensure what is best for Sweden and to take responsibility for Sweden. For our part, it is about trying to get through as much as we can of our policies in the budget cooperation and to take responsibility for Sweden in a very tough and difficult time.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-386	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for Mats Persson's work and the things that you have managed to bring into the budget bill and which are good when it comes to investments for companies, for example. However, I also note that this budget proposal weakens the line of work, and I think that is serious. This also deserves to be discussed, because it is not me who has condemned Stefan Lövven's and the government's leadership during the Corona crisis, but it is the Liberal party leader. One could say that it would be bad for Sweden, we must take responsibility here and now. But how far does that line of argument go? If you do not believe in leadership and do not believe that leadership is best sent to solve major and important societal problems in Sweden, why do you keep that leadership under your arms? I have respect for such reasoning in the midst of a crisis situation, but the crisis, with such drama as we had last spring, does not last forever.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-388	Madam President and Jakob Forssmed. I understand that many parties – the Christian Democrats, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Moderates and others – have criticized some of the government's crisis policy, for example, regarding the lack of rapid detection and the rapid adoption of a number of measures that would probably have been even better for dealing with the Corona crisis. The right to make such a criticism against their government has all parties in the Swedish parliament, and it is many parties that have used it. But that from that, that we have made that criticism, in the midst of a burning crisis, we would act so that there will be a new election in Sweden I do not see as responsible. In this situation, it is important that as many parties in the Swedish Parliament as possible – we eight parties have cooperated well during the spring, and I am sure that we will cooperate well during the autumn – taking responsibility and doing what is best for Sweden. That must be the guiding principle of politics.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-391	Madam President, I would like As early as last spring, we set out what should be a matter of course: the re-launch of Sweden, Europe and the world following the Corona crisis should be green. The Green Party presented a series of green injection proposals for the Swedish economy during the spring. A majority of these proposals can be found in the budget that is being put on the table today. We know what needs to be done, and there is no better time to do so than now. We must never ever allow anyone to deceive us into the fact that an effective environmental and climate policy is self-evident. It never was. Despite melting ice and burning forests, it is not now either. Last time the parties on the right pushed through a budget in the Swedish parliament, it was an environmental slaughter that was on the agenda. Every negotiating table requires politicians to give priority to the planet. The Green Party has always done so, and so do we this time. We are increasing the pace of climate change and changing the industry through a strengthened climate and industrial momentum and green credit guarantees. The reduction obligation and bonus – malus is greatly enhanced while investing in charging infrastructure and bicycle and public transport. We invest in nature and close to nature. These include the construction of wetlands, the maintenance of hiking trails and the cleaning up of contaminated areas. The transition is taking place here and now, and it is we who lead it by making large investments in Swedish companies and jobs. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we are good at environmental innovations. But we are not as good at ensuring that these ideas reach a global market. Now the state will go in and guarantee loans for climate investments for 50 billion over the next three years so that Swedish companies dare to invest heavily in green technology. In previous economic crises, sustainability efforts have slowed down, and countries in our vicinity have attracted investment and jobs. We're not gonna let that happen now. Our task is to build courage and confidence in the future in Swedish companies so that they dare to invest in the future even when the situation is uncertain. Just as important as it is to do the right thing, it is to stop doing the wrong thing. Now we are throwing two really bad fossil subsidies into the waste bin: a system of preferential cars that favours high-income motorists in big cities and a tax reduction for heating with oil has no place in a sustainable society. These tax increases allow for a green tax refund. Those who work as well as those who have income from our security systems benefit from it. In the green transition, no one should slip behind. Madam President, I would like I believe in a Sweden that stays together. From being one of the world's most equal countries, the economic divides in Sweden have grown in recent decades. In one of the richest countries in the world, no child should grow up in poverty or exclusion. Now we are increasing maintenance support for single parents and making a number of investments for greater security in vulnerable areas. A group that will carry the memory of the corona throughout their lives are the young people who took the student this spring. We know from past crises that young people can be hit hard. In a situation where the labour market is weak, the education system must be strong. That's why we make big investments all the way from preschool to university of applied sciences and college. As in other economic crises, people with precarious employment and low financial resources were the hardest hit during the spring's dramatic downturn in the economy. Public investment is the most effective way of countering the downturn in the economy. Now we are strengthening welfare throughout the country, holding on to the increased levels of unemployment insurance and improving working conditions for all heroes in health care. Now is the time to raise your eyes and create faith in the future for Sweden.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-403	Madam President, I would like Those were great and beautiful words from Karolina Skog! It was also when I listened to her colleague Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin in the party leader debate. She felt that Sweden had a democratic crisis in which the independence of the courts is being curtailed and the independence of the courts is under threat. Those were big words, too. I spiked my ears a little bit extra because it was the Swedish government, where the Green Party of course is included, which last summer decided to take over the legal investigation regarding Preem's expansion in Lysekil. It was taken over from the Land and Environment Court. I am fully aware that there is an opportunity for a government to take over a matter, but then it will be done immediately, at an early stage. We Moderates have asked Parliament's investigation service to examine this issue, and there is, what we know, no other time when this has just happened. So, Madam President, there is now a political review of a court decision. This is about a company that intends to make a major investment of 15 billion, and everything is put on ice because the government is reviewing a court order. My questions to Karolina Skog are quite simple: In what way does the Green Party contribute in this specific case to safeguarding the independence of Swedish courts? Is it only the independence of foreign courts that the Green Party cares about?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-407	Madam President, I would like I note that Elisabeth Svantesson felt that a line on economic policy was far-fetched in this debate, but an individual examination of the state of a company was apparently close to the debate on the budget that we are leaving. I have to say that I certainly do not agree with that in any way, but of course I do not mind answering questions about this judicial trial. As Elisabeth Svantesson says, it is possible for the government to take over trials of various permit processes. It's been done. Historically, however, it has been that the government has considered making it to the advantage of companies. The economic arguments against environmental law have been weighed. What has happened, and which I obviously need to inform you about, is that the Swedish Parliament has adopted a climate law. The Riksdag's decision clearly states that the permit laws in Sweden need to be reviewed. That review is ongoing in a state investigation. During that time, it is not quite a legal situation. Is it the principles of the Climate Act that apply, or is it the principle that is currently in the environmental code? How should CO2 emissions be assessed? It's going to be tried by the government. Preparation in progress. I will not stand here in the speaker's chair and precede that preparation. This work is extensive but is done with great intensity in the government.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-411	I would like to remind you that this is the budget debate we are having right now.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-412	Madam President, I would like Absolutely! But I did not actually hear Karolina Skog say much about her own budget. She spoke more in general terms, and there were quite a few big words. This is an important issue. It is a billion-dollar investment for a Swedish company, and it is currently completely on ice. The Green Party refers to the new climate law, but that it could be used in the way that Karolina Skog claims is not correct. Only the Green Party does that interpretation. Now the government, driven by the Green Party, is making an impossible maneuver. The independence of the courts in Sweden is being circumvented. That is an important issue. This is an important issue for growth. It is an important issue for legal certainty. What is happening now is that the issue is being pulled along. It is a violation of the rule of law, Madam President. It can affect other companies in Sweden that want to grow.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-415	Madam President, I would like No one would be happier than me if we could create clarity about what applies to large investments that increase emissions in Sweden. I fully agree that we need more clarity on this issue. It was one of the aims of the Climate Act, which the Riksdag has adopted. It needs to be made clearer that the cases adopted apply, that the commitments that Sweden makes internationally, towards other countries, apply and that they have consequences for the work of authorities and courts, among other things. I agree with that. This is one of the reasons why the entire permit work in Sweden is reviewed as part of the implementation of the climate law adopted by the Swedish Parliament.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-418	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say to Emil Källström: I hope you will have a very nice parental leave with your daughter. I'll miss you in the debates, but I suspect we'll be gnawing pretty much once you're back. Madam President, I would like What I'm going to talk to Karolina Skog about is welfare. You lift up the welfare and that the employees who have fought and made heroic contributions in health care now will get better working conditions and everything you said, Karolina Skog. I don't remember everything, but it was about that. However, if we look at the budget that you have just spoken about, we can see that it does not really look that way. If we count nicely for next year, we see that municipal consumption will not increase at all to the extent that it should meet demographic needs. Sure, the numbers are shaky; so we can be nice and say: Okay, then! But in reality we know that Sundsvall over the next two years will save 300 million instead of 400 million, Norrbotten will give more than 300 employees in healthcare and Arboga spends less on care and school than it cost for 2019. If we look at 2022, it looks really, really bad. Why, Karolina Skog? Were tax cuts more important than welfare? Why else are major cuts waiting?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-423	Madam President, I would like I and Ulla Andersson fully agree that it is important in this situation to maintain both the power of well-being as it stands today and, in fact, also instill opportunities to move around. When we measure if we do enough, there is one measure that I want to point to. It is the forecast of how much tax revenue we expect the municipalities to lose compared to how much the general and larger targeted state grants provide. In this respect, we note that the contributions we make exceed the expected loss of tax revenue. It can be said to be a measure that municipalities and regions will be able to maintain well-being. The aim is that what Ulla Andersson mentions should not happen. Municipalities and regions should not have to dispose of staff. But it is also based on local decisions. We still have to remember that. I can't stand here and vaccinate every municipality against that kind of reduction. We are now making huge contributions to municipalities and regions. If, in the future, when we know more about the development of this economic crisis, we need further additions, we will have to come back to that. I am in no way alien to further strengthen municipalities and regions, if necessary in the future.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-427	Madam President, I would like I would not say that Karolina Skog and I are in complete agreement. If we had been in complete agreement, cuts would not be expected. It is your own table in the financial plan that shows that municipal consumption is even negative in 2022, Karolina Skog. It even says in your own budget that in 2022 there will be fewer employees in health, education and care, that is, in the common sector. That's what it looks like. Demographic changes are very large. Your budget doesn't cover to face it. The older ones are getting more. The school children are getting more. We need to hire more people to meet those needs. But your budget is not responding to that. Why not, Karolina Skog? Why were tax cuts again more important than ensuring long-term, sustainable financing of welfare? Can you explain this to all those who work in welfare, to the old or to schoolchildren?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-431	Madam President, I would like I will comment on two things, first on tax reductions. I think it has become clear during this process that tax cuts have not been the priority of the Green Party. However, it is important that the permanent tax cuts made are directed at those with the lowest incomes, including those living within the so-called transfer system. It is extremely important to us when we are in and let them through. The second part is welfare. We need to distinguish between the part that is about countering the crisis and the much larger and much more long-term challenge that we have linked to demography. I'm not standing here saying I have a solution. I have not solved the demographic development of Swedish welfare. No one has. It's huge. We will have to come back to it. Solving it is not something we do with a budget for a year.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-433	Madam President, I would like I too would like to wish Emil Källström a good parental leave together with his daughter. That distance from politics can be unreasonably beneficial, I understand. Madam President, I would like Karolina Skog spoke in her speech about, among other things, the green, nature-related jobs. Today, I have criticised the government and the cooperation parties for having produced a budget that includes each party's favorite reforms and that they have not really reviewed them properly or tried to do them well enough. They have more divided things and let the parties go forward with their own respective things. I think this is a bad way of doing budgetary work. Karolina Skog explains that she has not given priority to tax cuts and that this has become clear. Yes, it certainly has. But it has also emerged what Karolina Skog and the Green Party have prioritised. This is, for example, about the climate life, which has been condemned by the Institute of Economic Development as ineffective. The Swedish National Audit Office states that it is assessed that Climate Change is not part of a cost-effective combination of instruments in order to reach the Swedish climate target by 2030. This is now strengthening the Green Party and the government. Let us look at the green nature jobs that Karolina Skog himself mentioned in her speech. It is a measure aimed at people getting jobs afterwards. But people don't get jobs after the action. The evaluation that exists of the nature-related jobs and that the Swedish Forest Board itself has done shows that under 100 out of 1,600 people who have had these jobs go on to work, their own company or regular education. Don't you look at your own reforms before you add to them?
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-437	Madam President, I would like It is great that it has been so clear that tax cuts have not been the priority of the Green Party in this budget. However, we are in favour of the form in which we jointly landed. In terms of effective climate policy, there are two things that drum everything else. The first is to remove fossil subsidies, i.e. stop giving money to those who emit. That is why we in the Green Party have given priority in every budget to ensure that a couple of them are removed. We do so in this budget as well. The second thing is carbon tax. It's exemplary and very effective. I would have liked to have used this tool much more if Parliament were in favour of it. The report referred to by Jakob Forssmed is that instead of having a wide-ranging climate work with different kinds of tools, they should be removed and replaced by an incredible increase in the CO2 tax. It is so large that even I begin to doubt whether it would be appropriate to go forward with it so hard. I'd like to ask you a question back. Should I interpret this as meaning that Jakob Forssmed thinks that we should stop investment aid and in the way that very many economists advocate, namely replace them with a powerful increase in the CO2 tax? Then maybe we should sit down and talk about it.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-441	Madam President, I would like No, Karolina Skog should interpret this as a general call to be careful with taxpayers' money. Instruments should be used effectively and effectively. You're not supposed to add things to bets that have been condemned. Reforms that lead to jobs should be used instead of those that do not lead to jobs. This is my simple call. I think there are plenty of proposals in this budget that have been tested, evaluated and proved not to be valid. Yet they have been plused. Green jobs are one of the things that has not led to the jobs it intended to achieve. There was nothing wrong with trying this. But now it's tried, and it's not working. Then you should put it down and do something else instead of plusing up.
i-7d91c5e2a76967c5-443	Madam President, I would like I find it truly sad that Jakob Forssmed joins those who claim to have the answer in climate policy."No, we shouldn't do that – without being able to say what really should be done. It's sad to hear this over and over again. The climate life has several purposes. One thing that is really good about K Limatklivet is that it includes companies and makes it possible for those who want to be in the climate transition. And there are a lot of people who want to. It enables them to test new technologies. The results of this will be different. Some become extremely effective, and others become less effective. It's okay. Since we're trying to do something new, this has to be okay. I also think that the value of this is good because many companies want to be part of the transition and can be so through the Climate and Industrial Regions and that they will be able to take advantage of the green credit guarantees. This is an extremely good thing in Swedish climate work.
