i-e4df788fe8aeae16-5	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked Minister for Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin when she plans to provide information about the future reduction obligation. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The reduction obligation is one of the government's most important instruments for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and thus achieving Sweden's climate targets. But it is not just by tightening the reduction obligation that we are going to achieve these goals. It is part of a work in which we shall also promote transport efficiency, electrification and energy efficient vehicles. The reduction obligation is thus part of a broad policy mix to reduce emissions in a cost-effective way. In order to monitor progress, control stations have been set up for the reduction obligation. The Government Office received a revised base report for this year's control station from the Swedish Energy Agency in December 2019. Since then, intensive work has taken place at the Government Office to produce proposals. I fully understand the concerns of the sectors concerned about the delay in receiving information. This is a complex issue, and I am sure that the same industries also have an interest in the fact that the proposals made by the government are well-founded. The government announced on Friday that an agreement on the reduction obligation is in place. The focus is a linear path with indicative reduction levels for 2030 of 28 percent for petrol and 66 percent for diesel, with a control station 2022. New reduction levels are expected to enter into force by 30 June 2021 at the earliest. The reductions in force this year will apply until new levels come into force. During the autumn, the Government will refer a memorandum proposing how the reduction obligation will develop by 2030. Reduction obligation gives a clear signal of a stable and increasing demand for biofuels and provides the conditions for industry to invest in production capacity. Sweden is well placed to increase domestic production of biofuels with a low climate impact in order to also increase the Swedish self-sufficiency rate of biofuels. The Government will shortly also decide on a mandate to the Energy Agency to investigate the need for additional instruments to promote certain biofuels plants, as announced in the Climate Action Plan.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-10	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We all agree on the target for the transport sector, i.e. to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030. It is an ambitious objective and, as the Government mentioned, it will require more measures. The electrification of the fleet of vehicles will be an important part. Hydrogen can be another part of the solution, but also sustainably produced biofuels are needed to reach the 2030 target. Biofuels will be needed if the reduction requirement is to be extended to aviation fuel in order to reduce aviation emissions as well. The development is very fast in all sectors involved, but they need very good foresight in order to switch investments in engines and in fuel-making plants. This also applies to the 2,670 petrol stations located around Sweden. If they are to be able to get new fuel for them, forward planning is needed for this to work properly everywhere. The transition requires investment, and if you are to dare to do this, clear rules of play and a long-term perspective are needed. You need not only to know the next steps, but perhaps several steps forward to adapt your activities and investments to meet the goals. Anticipation is needed if the fuel industry is to be able to adjust to bring in enough biofuels so that the industry can deliver it. As I wrote in my interpellation, four months of 2020. The government was informed in December about this time for reconciliation. I think it's been a long time. The answer I have received – which is not really an answer – is that it will take place on 30 June at the earliest. It's not something the industry can use to plan. They would really need a planning horizon. Sweden probably needs to produce more biofuels to meet its needs. If, in order to satisfy the reduction obligation, we are forced to import biofuels, the risk is imminent that they are not sustainably produced. Then we have not gained much in terms of emissions in order to prevent the climate crisis. There are many of us who have highlighted the need for new information about the reduction obligation. I, too, lift it up here. I'm interested in finding out what's so complicated. What's taking so long? Does the Government have an answer to that?
i-4382g4wcvywJY95HWNzSK8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. First of all, I would like to say that the industry is now receiving long-term rules of play until 2030 in a linear curve with levels for each year and control stations. But it is not just political decisions that are crucial for the industry. The question is what is the development of other types of vehicle. Above all, it is about how much of our vehicle fleet will be electrically powered. How many will choose hydrogen? For the rest, the question is how much of the traffic work on our roads will be done by traditional cars where petrol and diesel have been the main fuel. We are now going to move to biofuels to a very large extent. Something we have looked at a lot is the question of how the different quotas should interact with each other and how the shift to a higher blend for petrol should be done, i.e. how to go from E5 to E10. We have there held intensive talks with the fuel industry to facilitate the transition that it must make. None of this has been unknown matter to the industry. Now it gets good conditions for planning the continuation. We will come back with a referral on the precise details of the issues. The reason why we are doing this is simply that we want the views of biofuels producers as well as consumers and vehicle manufacturers on how we can make this powerful transition as smooth as possible and at the lowest social cost as possible. We want to make this historic transition as good as possible for Sweden's car owners and medium-sized producers.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-18	Madam President, I would like The fact that we agree on the objectives is a strength. It creates clarity for the transport industry. My picture is that it generally responds well and has embraced this. The aim is to reduce emissions by 70%. As I said, there is clarity for the transport industry to change. However, we will have petrol-powered cars in the future. The cars that are rolling today will also be rolling in ten years' time. This can be said even today, because people do not change cars very often. Nor is it very sustainable not to drive the cars a little longer instead of scrapping them and starting over. We agree on the objectives, and it provides clarity in itself. But there must also be clarity as to the details, because they affect investment for individuals and for companies. That would require a long-term approach. There is a certain goal by 2030, but you need to be clear about what steps to take along the way as well. It is important that the sectors involved are given clear rules of play that are long-term and perceived as reasonable. As far as the reduction obligation is concerned, I am curious about what the cooperation with the fuel industry looks like. Is it just about them answering referrals? What is their involvement in developing a reasonable roadmap by 2030?
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-22	Madam President, I would like We have a very good collaboration with fuel producers, fuel importers and retailers in Sweden. The message we have now given has been preceded by several talks that I and the Ministry have held with these stakeholders. I welcome the involvement of stakeholders in making comments. I also welcome the views of the Moderates and Maria Stockhaus in their further work. I welcome the fact that we have a common objective and that we agree on it. I also welcome the fact that we agree on the levels. I invite all constructive parties to join in ensuring that we can make this as simple as possible. It hasn't always sounded like this from the Moderates. The fact that the Moderates now care about the climate is not a day too soon. Less than a year ago Ulf Kristersson warned against climate alarmism. A month later, he dropped out of the energy agreement, which provided long-term and predictable ground rules for the transition of the energy sector and the climate. The Moderate Budget slaughtered the environmental budget. The same budget also wanted to save Sweden's last coal power and increase emissions from traffic corresponding to a smaller coal power plant. Last time the Moderates had the opportunity to present a budget that would become a reality, the famous transitional budget, the environmental budget was reduced by SEK 2.1 billion. Kristersson says that the government's policy is reminiscent of Hungary and Poland. But let us be honest: the only thing that brings to mind Hungary and Poland is surely the party that the Moderates claim to want to cooperate with after the elections.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I was going to stick to the debate on reduction obligations. Possibly, I can imagine discussing the environment and climate as well. A lot of experts agree that the government's policies, with electric bicycle premiums, plastic bag taxes and other things, have no impact on the environment or climate. The fact that we Moderates choose to make other priorities in our budget in terms of environment and climate has to do with the fact that we clearly see that much of what the government presents in the field of environment and climate is placard politics and populism. It is politics that has very little impact on the actual problems that we have. The reduction obligation presupposes the existence of sustainably produced biofuels. As I said earlier, if we import biofuels made in a way that is not sustainable – rain forests are harvested, palm oil is used, and so on – we have not won very much on the whole. It may feel better here in Sweden, but globally it does not get better. We are well placed to produce biofuels from sustainable raw materials. Preem's new refinery in Lysekil is a production plant that could produce biofuels from, among other things, waste from the forest industries. My question to the Government is: When will the government's announcement of the refinery in Lysekil?
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-28	Madam President, I would like When the Moderates protect coal power, it is a decision for priorities other than government. There, Maria Stockhaus and I are in complete agreement. With regard to the need for domestically produced biofuels and not to have biofuels based on palm oil that drains environmental resources in other countries, I also agree with Maria Stockhaus. We need a greater biorefinery capacity in Sweden. The government has presented a large package of credit guarantees to enable such activities. As I said in my interpellation response, we are also prepared to review other instruments to ensure that the biofuels we use can be produced within Sweden's borders. Then it does not have to be an exact relationship, so that all the biofuels we produce in Sweden are used in Sweden and that we will never import. I think we should both import and export biofuels. But a reasonable goal should be that we produce as much biofuels in Sweden as we use, so that we have a self-sufficiency opportunity. Then we need biorefineries, credit guarantees and instruments. Here, too, I regret that the Moderates have chosen to leave the talks we have had about energy, because I still perceive that we have common interests. The decision on the application received from Preem will be notified in the autumn or winter.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-32	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me if I share the Swedish power network's assessment of the need for a third electricity connection to Gotland and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Swedish power network resumes the design of a third connection to Gotland. Developing the electricity grid to enable the transformation of the power system in accordance with the energy and climate policy objectives set by Parliament is necessary. Developments are also necessary to meet the growth that is taking place in our country and to meet the needs of total defence. The issue of the supply of electricity to Gotland has been actuated on several occasions in recent years. According to the regulation letter for 2020, Swedish grids are required to report security of supply and security of supply regarding electricity generation, including an assessment of whether Gotland has a secure and secure electricity supply in the short and long term. The report shall be submitted to the Government in February 2021. I expect the accounts to be the result of a broad dialogue between the various stakeholders.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-36	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for the answer and the opportunity to debate the question of a possible third cable to Gotland. Gotland should have a secure electricity supply, but they do not have as secure a power supply as they should have. There's been dozens of blackouts in the last few years. Households have been affected. Companies have been hit. The public sector has been affected. It has cost millions of dollars for the important Gotland industry. Our conclusion is that a third country cable to Gotland is needed. Needs exist – in the households, in the companies, in the public sector and in the defence with its re-establishment on the island. There is a large electricity generation that would benefit from a third cable. Industry, of course, needs a secure supply of electricity, there as in other parts of Sweden. And there are the Swedish climate targets, Madam President. One of the largest emitters in Sweden all categories, the Cementa factory, is located on Gotland. They have a long-term plan to switch to electricity instead of fossil fuels, which requires a secure supply of electricity. If this is threatened, Sweden's ability to meet the long-term climate goals is also threatened. Swedish power grids, the state operator, carried out an analysis a few years ago and concluded that there was a need, but that they did not have the mission and that political decisions were needed to move forward. The Moderates have wanted to give this information about projecting and eventually building. Last spring, the Swedish Parliament voted on a third cable to Gotland. In this case, the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party chose to vote no. I very much regret that decision and hope that Anders Ygeman, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party will see the need that exists and are prepared to change foot. On behalf of the Government, Swedish power networks have looked at the need and, as stated in the interpellation response, will report in particular security of supply and security of supply regarding electricity generation, including an assessment of whether Gotland has a secure and secure electricity supply in the short and long term. This is what they have now reported. Swedish power grids had quite recently a meeting on Gotland where they found that the need is clear and that a third cable is needed. They also pointed out that it should be in place around 2030, and they have already started a dialogue with State Vattenfall. What is missing, and where is Swedish power grid clear, are political decisions. In Swedish, this means that the government and Anders Ygeman must put their foot down. Either you stand firm where you have been before, that there is no need for cable to Gotland, or you change foot and share the opinion from both Swedish power grids, Moderates and many others and say: Let us project and develop this. Madam President, I would like Gotland has suffered a dozen blackouts. There's a need for a cable. Households, businesses, defence, the public sector, industry and the climate are in favour of this, and political decisions are lacking. I have two questions for Anders Ygeman. First of all, when you have given a commission to Swedish power grids to look at the need, and Swedish power grids say that the need exists, I wonder: Is Anders Ygeman prepared to give a new and complementary assignment to Swedish power grids to design and build a third cable? Secondly, what is the opinion of the Social Democrats? Are the Social Democrats Party for or against the construction of a third electric cable?
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-46	Madam President, I would like I still have to give Lars Helmered a 5th in argument art. In a speech of no more than four minutes, he first manages to say that the Social Democrats are against building a cable. He then concludes by asking: are the Social Democrats in favour or against us building a cable? It is reasonable to try to keep a line in any case during the four minutes you have at your disposal. The truth is that I did not think that I would be allowed to stand in Parliament's pulpit and defend the views of the Swedish democrats against Moderates. Neither the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats nor the others who have taken a stand in committee have taken a stand for or against a cable. We want Gotland's electricity supply to be secure. The authority that owns and manages the infrastructure is the one that should decide in what way it is best solved. The truth is that Lars Helmered and I agree that we should secure the electricity supply to Gotland. This is the background to the Government's task of giving Svenska Kraftnät to return with an account of how it should be done. Then Lars Hjälmered reads in part high from a preliminary report. The mission hasn't been reported to me yet. It will be reported in February. The second question Lars Helmered asked was: Will the government give assignments, and so on? The answer, of course, is that the government will give the tasks required to secure Gotland's electricity supply. That is why we have given that mission. That is why we are working on this issue. The Gotlanders can be sure that we will ensure that Gotland has a safe and secure electricity supply in the future.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-52	Madam President, I would like What makes the question of Gotland and the third electricity cable a little special is due to a number of reasons. The first is that they, like others, must have a secure supply of electricity. They have suffered dozens of blackouts in recent years, and that is not reasonable. Then political responsibility must be taken. The second is that there is uncertainty. We have seen this with the electric crises in Stockholm and Skåne. It also creates uncertainty about investment and new jobs. I don't want that to happen to either Gotland or other parts of the country. Thirdly, there is the question of climate. One of Sweden's largest emitters all categories can be found in Slite. If the supply of electricity can be secured, it can contribute to their long-term conversion in cement production. This means that Sweden will be able to achieve its climate goals. Madam President, I would like The fourth reason that is important is that it is an island. When it comes to transport to and from Gotland, everyone is involved in decorating via the tax bill for the air and ship transport of people and goods to simply secure the function of the island. I believe that there is a particular social responsibility in terms of electricity supply and Gotland. Nevertheless, the conclusion is that the needs exist. Anders Ygeman is a little light on whether you're for or against. I note that we had a sharp question from the Committee on Economic Affairs: should the government be given a mandate to reclaim a design and construction? Then S, SD and MP chose to vote no. It is perfectly legitimate to think this. My question was, in fact, more on the subject: Have you changed feet, or are you prepared to change feet when you take the impression? Anders Ygeman is quite right that Swedish power networks have not submitted the report to him and the government. However, their representatives have stood on Gotland and told us that the conclusion is that there is a need for a third cable. They see a need to discuss with Vattenfall and other actors. They are clear that political decisions are needed to design and later build this. We in the Moderates are still convinced that we should give them that assignment and take the next step with a design. This means a dialogue with Region Gotland, Vattenfall and a series of other actors in order for it to be in place. Later on, of course, it is about procurement, financing and the framework they have. Politics is also to want and have a will expression in this. If the Swedish power grid is as clear as it is that the needs are there, the question is: Do the Social Democrats stick to the view they had before, that they should not vote for further planning and give the government the task, or are they prepared to be able to proceed with this unconditionally? That's one thing. The second is that the Government's budget proposal last year has given Svenska Kraftnät a mandate to carry out an analysis. The natural step would be to say: Now we take the next step and give it the task to project and build just as the Swedish power grid on Gotland has presented. I think the Gotlanders can demand this. What does Anders Ygeman think?
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-61	Madam President, I would like Anders Ygeman does not think that we should sit in the Riksdag and draw up management drawings in Sweden. Anders Ygeman thinks that the order we have is that Swedish power grids and those who are experts in drawing electricity lines should do so. However, Anders Ygeman believes that it is the policy's task to establish that all parts of Sweden should have a safe and secure electricity supply. That's why we've given that mission. That's why we don't have to change feet. We will get that mission back and then make any necessary decisions to secure the electricity supply for Gotland and others. However, I cannot tear myself away from the description of the recurring power cuts on Gotland that Lars Hjälmered has now addressed in two interpellational posts. That's right. In 2019 there were 5 interruptions on Gotland. In 2018, there were 16 breaks on Gotland. They were primarily due to the renewal projects carried out by Gotlands Energi AB and Vattenfall. In two cases, they were due to thunder. I do not know what political responsibility the government should take for the renewal work that Gotlands Energi AB does or for the existence of thunderstorms in the country. However, I am convinced that the government will take responsibility for ensuring the security of electricity supply for Gotland. That's the responsibility the government intends to take.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-65	Madam President, I would like Swedish power grids say when they report on Gotland not only that there is a need for a third cable to be designed and built. They say that if you don't expect to do anything more, there will be at least one to two power cuts continued on Gotland every year. It may not sound that much when you listen to it, but then you should know that an industry or factory like the one Cementa has in Slite costs tens of millions to restart after a power failure. It is therefore serious when we talk about the effects that this can have. Anders Ygeman asks: What political responsibility should be taken? Make a clear statement! Swedish power networks should continue and project to eventually build a third cable to Gotland in order to secure the security of electricity supply on the island for households, companies, defence, the public sector and industry and for us to be able to contribute in the long term to meeting the Swedish climate targets. That is clear, Madam President. Needs are there. It is not just certain parties like the Moderates who say so. Swedish power grids are very clear. They also call for political clarity and decision-making. We're ready to understand that. I hope that the government will change foot in this gradually so that we can secure Gotland's electricity supply.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-69	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered has granted the government all kinds of feet. The foot government stands on is that Gotland should have a secure electricity supply. That's why we gave the assignment to Swedish power grids. This is why Svenska Kraftnät will report back to the government in February next year. This is also when the government will take any necessary decisions to secure and secure Gotland's electricity supply. What Lars Helmered has not said about the preliminary conclusion is that we are talking about a need for a third cable in 2030. I do not know if Lars Hjälmered is prepared to wait so long, but it is in any case the conclusions contained in the preliminary plan that he has drawn for the House several times here and now. The government will not rest and wait to secure Gotland's electricity supply. We will get back in February the mission we have given and we will act on the mission which will then be reported back to us. I also welcome the fact that there seems to be a broad consensus on the need to secure Gotland's electricity supply in the long term.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-72	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take action for a simple payment system with affordable prices for rechargeable cars. He has also asked what demands the government will continue to make for the subsidies paid to public charging points for electric cars. It should be easy to drive an electric car. Access to charging infrastructure shall not be an obstacle to electrification. It can often be difficult to charge an electric car because of the many different payment solutions used, and it is therefore important that we find solutions that make it easier for electric car users. This is particularly important now that electrification goes faster than we expected. The round table discussion I have had with the industry on how electric car charging at public charging stations can be facilitated through uniform and simple payment solutions was a first important step in how an industry-wide solution can be designed. Already, public charging stations that receive state aid are required to meet certain requirements for preparation for measurement and billing. I intend to continue the talks on what is appropriate to regulate for the charging stations set up with state aid. Electrification of the transport sector is crucial for achieving our climate goals. In the electrification strategy announced by the government, electrification of the transport sector will be an important part. The government also intends to set up an electrification commission for the transport sector. I will follow closely the work of the Commission.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Energy for the answer to my interpellation. As the Minister says, electrification of the fleet of vehicles is a very important part of how we can achieve our climate goals. In the field of transport, we will reduce our emissions by 70% over the next ten years. It is an ambitious objective, but it is absolutely necessary if we are to emerge from the acute climate emergency that we are in. I think it becomes more and more obvious every day when you look around. There are forest fires in California and other forms of extreme weather around the world. I think what the Minister says is correct: it should be easy to drive an electric car. Today it is anything but easy to charge your electric car to public charging stations. There is simply a plethora of different payment systems. It's different apps, you're supposed to be flashing with different flashes and you're supposed to register and be connected to a certain payment system that doesn't work in another one. I can show the President and everyone else in this Chamber. Here's one of those flashes. Here's another bling tray. On my table in the bench is my cell phone. I sat and counted how many different apps I have to pay to charge the car, and I decided that I have seven different apps. Everyone understands this isn't easy. When you load your electric car, you sometimes don't know what it costs either. Does it cost $5, or does it cost $5? That's what happened to me once when I charged for 20 minutes. Does it cost $1, U.S.A., or does it cost $170? That was the case at another time. There has been talk of pure wild west, charging chaos, charging swamps and other things. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that we make sure to put some order into this, for it should be easy to do the right thing. I welcome the round table that the Minister for Energy called for on 26 August to discuss consistent and simple payment solutions in order to charge cars. But I wonder if this is the sharpest tool a minister has: to sit down and talk. Madam President, I would like Talking goes, but sometimes a little more forceful action is required by a minister. I am thinking of this on the basis of the fact that we now have more than 8 000 public charging stations for electric cars that have been expanded with state funds. The state has paid 50 percent to set up the charging poles. That is why I find it a little strange that the government has not been able to formulate effective demands on those who install the charging poles. It should be required to be simple systems and systems that can work with each other. It's supposed to be enough with just one flip-flop and just one app. I do not think I am getting a very clear answer from the Minister. Does he intend to impose concrete requirements on those to whom investment aid is paid for charging stations? I would also like to know if the Minister can tell us when we have a simple system to charge our electric cars so that you do not have to run around with a variety of charging trays and seven different apps in your mobile. No one should have to do that. It should be easy to drive an electric car.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-86	I would like to remind the honourable Member that we must not use props in the speaker's chair, although it may sometimes be justified, but it is only the spoken word that applies.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-87	Madam President, I would like We'll just have to think of it as talking thorns and trays. Of course, I fully agree with Jens Holm on the problem picture – props or not – because that is what it looks like. That was also the background to my calling to the round table. Jens Holm calls for strong action. I don't think you should run to the sword first, but I think the pen can sometimes exceed the sword in success. It is because what we have seen in the charging industry is a very rapid development. We have seen the development of payment solutions, and this development continues. We have seen the development of charging technology, and this development continues. We have seen the development of vehicles, and this development continues. We have also seen a development of the interaction between vehicles and charging infrastructure, and this development is also continuing. The question then is: how do we ensure in this changing environment that it is easy to charge and that the price picture is transparent to the consumer so that you know what you are paying for at every single opportunity and that you can check that you get what you are paying for? This was the background to my meeting with the industry. I can say the same to Jens Holm and to the Parliament as I said to the industry: there are opportunities to legislate in this area. There are opportunities to impose conditions in all the regulations on aid that we provide in this area. But it's going to be a pretty rigid system. I do not close the door to resort to these measures, but my first option is that the industry itself ensures that there are simple payment solutions and transparent solutions in place. If legal support or government support is then needed in any sub-area to maintain the structure, I am also no stranger to it. The industry's answer to me was: We can get this in place. We will talk, and at our next meeting we will present the solutions to you. After that, the implementation time is in the order of one quarter. It was a little less than a month, maybe three weeks ago, that I met the industry. Tell them we have a new meeting in a month or two, so that the industry has really been able to come to an agreement. If there is a good solution then the implementation time is a quarter, so we can probably have a solution rolled out and in place in about six months. However, it is ultimately the industry that has to meet its timetable. If this development does not happen, I am no stranger to the fact that we can then make demands or come up with legislative provisions. My first choice, however, is that the industry can handle this itself and that we get a solution that is consistent with the technology development that takes place in the various components. In this context, I would also like to remind you that the government is now moving forward with uniform support for charging poles where the state is responsible for half the cost and you as an individual for half and where you can be sure to get the support. In the last budget we went out with support, which is now being rolled out, to build away the last white spots in our road network. No one on the central road network shall have more than an hour's journey to a charging post. We have also taken tough conditions, and we can come up with even tougher conditions, for charging places in parking garages and multi-family houses. That's where we have the big debt: to make sure that everyone who lives in the apartment can also have a place to charge their car.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-95	Madam President, I would like I think the last thing the Minister said is very important. This should not be a class issue. Okay, we know that a new electric car costs a lot of money and that it's much easier for those who have their own house to charge on site, but soon there will be many electric cars out on the secondary market. It will be possible for ordinary people to buy an electric car or join an electric car cooperative or similar. Then there must be charging places publicly in garages, parking spaces and other places. Madam President, I would like Let me venture into a slightly more ideological argument. I know that the Minister sometimes also thinks that these may be interesting. This is about government money that we roll out so that private companies, municipal companies, energy companies and others can set up charging poles. In principle, there are no demands, whatever the Minister says, for usability, payment systems and other things regarding these charging poles. These are state roads we run on, and the Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for ensuring that the roads work with maintenance and other things. When I have been in contact with many who drive electric cars, including myself, one often makes the reflection that some charge very high prices for charging. They're gonna make a business out of this. They're gonna make money. Others don't even hit their charging poles. They realize that they are not going to make any money on this, so it was no great point to have these poles. Then there are municipalities that allow people to charge completely free, without any hassle, and that is good. The extension of my reasoning is: Wouldn't it have been easier to have the Swedish Transport Administration set up all these charging poles straight off for the state's money, instead of detouring through complicated application procedures with a lot of requirements that might still not be met and so on? The roads are the state. Why can't the charging infrastructure be? Madam President, I would like I think what Anders Ygeman is now discussing about the new investment aid to cover the so-called white spots is symptomatic. I want to say that the whole of Sweden is full of white spots for those who drive a rechargeable vehicle. Even if there are charging poles, it is because, just as we have been at it, it is not certain that they work. It's not safe that the flashcards or whatever it might be will work there. If you look at Trafikverket's proposal on where these charging poles should be set up, you can see that it is inner Norrland, far out in sparsely populated areas, very far from where many people are. I really mean that there should be charging poles in these places, but what I find strange is that we go in with state funds in places where very few people live. I think it would have been better if the Swedish Transport Administration had been given a mission: Set up charging poles all over the country! You don't have to think in terms of the market and that there may be others who may sometime in the future with private money can set up charging poles there. The charging infrastructure could simply, like the roads, be seen as a basic state activity. Madam President, I would like This was a bit of an ideological digression. It's not like that now. Then I'm still interested in knowing if Anders Ygeman and the government are prepared to make any new demands, to introduce new calls for proposals with Climate change and other investment support, to the usability and that payment systems should be as simple as possible – that it should be a payment system, a blip card or an app. Are you going to set the requirements for future investment aid for charging poles?
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-102	Madam President, I would like Perhaps we can come back in another interpellation debate to the question of whether it would have been better to do otherwise ten years ago– it is possible that it would have been – or whether it is better to do something else soon to have a more uniform and larger structure. Then let's remember that with the development of electric cars we are now seeing, the public charging network of secondary nature – 80, 85, soon perhaps 90% of the charge that happens will take place in people's homes and in people's workplaces. That's where we're going to focus. The public charging network should be seen as the spare tank in the electric car as soon as possible. What many have not thought about is that there are actually a lot of people who go and buy cars today that cannot be refueled at home or in the workplace. The unique advantage of the electric car must probably both the industry and we become better at lifting. Jens Holm asks whether I am prepared to make new demands on future applications, whether there should not be tougher rules, etc. He wants a slightly more ideologically coloured debate. Then let me quote Deng Xiaoping, a politician who may possibly be slightly closer to Jens Holm than me. He once said: It doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, the main thing is that it catches mice. In the same way, I think we should look at the charge development. We shall have uniform payment solutions, we shall have transparent pricing and we shall have it in such a way that it develops over time. Then we can make demands in regulations and we can make demands in legislation, but they risk becoming so rigid that they hamper development. Therefore, I would rather the industry take responsibility for a common standard that develops over time. But – here I'm going to meet Jens Holm – it is so that the industry does not pass the task, we must of course go back and take the second best option, i.e. changes to regulations or legislation. I'm not closing the door for that.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-106	Madam President, I would like As recently as a few months ago, on 17 June last summer, Anders Ygeman and the government made a new regulation on a new investment aid to cover these very white spots where it is not possible to quickly charge their car. It is an investment aid that can be applied for from Trafikverket. What the government then decided was that the Swedish Transport Administration should pay out investment aid only to places where the market itself cannot set up the charging poles. Here I think it will be a little over-ideologized on the part of the government. Why see this as a market at all? Why not see charging infrastructure as basic societal infrastructure – as part of our state roads, simply? As a letter in the mail came then Trafikverket's account of where to set up the charging poles. It's in a lot of places where very few people live. It should also be set up there, but why can't Trafikverket set up in the cities and close to the cities where we actually also need more charging infrastructure that works? Madam President, I would like I see that the Minister has a great deal of commitment to this issue. I very much welcome that. It is good that the Minister is meeting the industry, and I want to say that this is a fantastic industry where there is a great deal of commitment. However, I think that only round tables may not be enough. It is good that the Minister is opening up because there may have to be some tightening of regulations, so that it becomes very clear. When will the next round table be, Anders Ygeman? And can you promise that after that round table you will have a complete date for when we have a unified, simple system for charging our electric cars?
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-111	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm and I want the same thing. The way there looks a little different. I don't think Jens Holm should underestimate the pen's power and directly grasp the sword. The exact date remains to be seen. It is in the nature of volunteering that we want a dialogue with the industry and that I should not write the industry exactly on my nose. I think the timetable presented by the industry when we had the last meeting was a good one. We have not yet called a new meeting, but I see that we will do so within one or two months so that such a meeting will be held. There are a number of dialogues between stakeholders in industry and consumer organisations as well, and I want those dialogues to be successful before I meet the stakeholders again so that there is pressure on both the industry and organisations to come to an agreement and get a good solution forward. Then Jens Holm takes up the design of the support to white spots. If I'm going to be a little mean and sly, I can say that Jens Holm wants to solve a problem that doesn't exist and the government wants to solve a problem that exists, i.e. Jens Holm wants to build charging poles where charging poles are located, and the government wants to build charging poles where charging poles don't exist. It is possible that another charging pole system would have been good, and it is possible that we will have another system in the future – we will have to come back to that in other interpellation debates – but right now this is the most effective way to achieve the goal, that is, that no one should have more than an hour to a charging station in the central road network. I have great hope that we will achieve this with the political tool we have chosen. Thank you for a good debate!
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-117	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what I am doing in order for Sweden to support Belarus' democratic opposition and what initiatives I take for Sweden to act so that Aleksandr Lukasjenko will be forced to resign from the office of President he holds. I have recently been asked several questions about the government's view of the developments in Belarus and what measures Sweden can take. I welcome this commitment. It is a strength that the Swedish Parliament stands together for respect for human rights and democracy and the right to express themselves freely. The government is closely following, and shares, the concerns about, the developments in Belarus. The government has also clearly condemned all the use of violence, arrests of peaceful demonstrators and electoral fraud for which the Belarus regime is responsible. For a long time, Sweden has pursued a clear and consistent policy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Belarus, and we have marked against all forms of electoral fraud, unjust restrictions on freedom of assembly and expression, as well as arbitrary detention of peaceful demonstrators, oppositionists, trade union representatives, journalists and other media workers. We have done this publicly and in different contexts within the EU and the UN and directly to Belarus, including on my own trip to which Håkan Svenneling refers in his question. Sweden has a long-term, sustained commitment to Belarus that aims to gradually influence attitudes, attitudes and knowledge. It is our conviction that, in the long term, this work can contribute to structural improvements. The work has always enjoyed strong support from the NGOs that we regularly consult in Belarus. Within the aid, Sweden supports independent civil society organisations and finances collaborations between Swedish party-related organisations and their counterparts in Belarus. In view of the latest developments in the country, we are now looking at how we can intensify support for belarusian civil society. With the widespread electoral fraud and the greatly increasing repression in connection with the presidential elections, the government, like many other governments, believes that a border has been crossed that justifies the rest of the world reviewing its relationship with the country's leadership. It is essential that the EU now continues to stand united and to act decisively. We have therefore pushed for an active and clear response from the European Union. I note that there is a consensus within the European Union on this, which is reflected not least in the conclusions of the European Council of 19 August. It makes it clear that we do not believe that the elections were free and fair and that we do not recognise the outcome of the elections. The conclusions express the European Council's solidarity with the wish of the belarus people to exercise their fundamental democratic rights. The disproportionate and unacceptable violence by the state authorities against peaceful demonstrators is condemned and calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all those who have been illegally detained. The conclusions also clearly state that the EU will shortly impose sanctions on a number of individuals responsible for violence, repression and falsification of election results, which is something that Sweden has actively advocated. At the same time, as Sweden has requested, the EU will increase cooperation to the benefit of the people of Belarus and people-to-people relations and deepen support for civil society. Only a peaceful and democratic process supported by a strong civil society and monitored by independent and free media can lead to sustainable solutions to the current situation. The B Albanian regime must engage in a genuine dialogue with the opposition. We need to use all available tools to influence developments in the right direction. Sweden, as incoming Chairman of the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has also offered to visit Minsk, together with its current President, Albania, to facilitate dialogue between the regime and the opposition.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-124	Madam President, I would like I have asked this interpellation because the Swedish Parliament needs to debate the political developments in Belarus. The dictator Lukasjenko has been in power in the country for 26 years. Since he took office, all the elections have been rigged, m one after the elections on August 9 ran the patience over for the belarusic people. That is why there have been great and extensive protests in the last five weeks. Those who have protested have been peaceful and friendly and have only claimed their right to real democracy. Yet they have met with widespread violence from the police and the military, while the intelligence service, still known as the KGB, has systematically arrested those who organised the protests. None of this, however, has stopped the hard-tested Belaris in its continuing struggle. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Much of the work carried out by the Foreign Minister, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Embassy in Minsk in recent weeks has been very good. Ambassador Christina Johannesson has, through a tough act, got DN's photographer Paul Hansen out of the dictatorship's custody and supported the Nobel laureate in literature, author Aleksijevitj Aleksijevich, by filling her apartment with foreign diplomats to prevent her from being arrested. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself has been clear about Sweden's policy on several occasions. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it must be noted that the action of the Foreign Minister is a reversal. Only in November, Linde Minister Belarus and dictator Lukasjenko visited the first Foreign Minister to do so in 27 years, the first since Lukasjenko took office and became a dictator. The visit also took place at a very inappropriate time, when a rigged parliamentary elections, to which the OSCE and EU observers noted were not right, had been held by the regime just the week before. Ann Linde's visit with the Finnish colleague became a legitimisation of the regime, especially as other EU countries and the US Foreign Minister Pompeo have also visited the country. The fact that Linde chose an inappropriate time for his visit was also something that dictator Lukasjenko noted. On his Belarus it is possible to read: ..................................................... As late as 3 July, Sweden also sent a greeting to the President on Belarus' National Day. This is nothing more than a legitimisation of Lukasjenko. This has also been done with the language used by the government. Words such as dictator, illegitimate or regime have shone with their absence, and many times official names as president, government or foreign minister have been used. After our criticism and that of other parties, the government has finally landed in calling it a regime. The prize in the matter of language, however, takes Prime Minister Löfven, who said at a meeting in the Swedish Parliament's EU Council that it is not how to tell people what is important. There is not much diplomatic competence there, you might think. The Foreign Minister is happy to answer if she considers Lukasjenko to be a dictator and if she considers the regime to be an illegitimate dictatorship. Madam President, I would like In the future, the government must continue to support clearly the belarus people, as has actually been done. Care must be taken to enforce EU sanctions against the illegitimate regime. All – all – who are responsible for the electoral fraud and violence must be put on the list of sanctions, and this, of course, includes Aleksandr Lukasjenko himself. On this point, Sweden must not bow down. Then we'll let the Belarussian people down.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-132	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If Håkan Svenneling hadn't awakened this interpellation, I would have. That is why I think it is good that it has been awakened, because I believe that what unites left-wing party stone Håkan Svenneling, Moderate Hans Wallmark and – probably – Foreign Minister Ann Linde is the view that it is extremely important that we have a public debate on this. We will tell the brave, struggling people of Belarus every day of the week that we are on their side. Sweden's leading political representatives are on the side of the belarusian people in their struggle for righteousness and self-esteem. That's basically what it's all about. I also know, Madam President, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had several meetings with representatives of the Belarus opposition. We in the Swedish opposition have also had several meetings with them; only today, here in Parliament, a meeting was arranged with Olga Kovalkova, whom the Foreign Minister met yesterday. We in the Nordic Council Bureau had a video meeting with Svetlana Tichhanovskaya, the leading person for the Belarus people, who are now sitting in Lithuania. I was also present only yesterday at a NATO meeting dealing only with Belarus. These meetings are important, because this also affects our safety and everyday life. But it is also about people, whom we are impressed by and who are now struggling day in and day out into the squares and streets of Belarus – at a rather high price, Madam President. They're imprisoned, they're humiliated and they lose their jobs. In some cases they are killed. That is what we, in cooperation with other civilised countries, have to react to and act against. One way is not to be quiet, but to act. Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his response to Håkan Svenneling, points out that the EU will shortly be imposing sanctions on a number of individuals responsible for violence, repression and falsification of election results. That's absolutely right. The only problem is that the elections in Belarus – the so-called elections – took place on 9 August. I am now looking at my watch, Madam President, and it says it on 15 September. It is regrettable that the EU is still able to produce so many words, albeit strong, and so little action. I therefore hope that Sweden, through our Foreign Minister, will take the lead, along with other like-minded countries. We know that the Baltic Republics have a similar view. I also hope, Madam President, that once they arrive, the lists of sanctions are not just about those at the top. They are very important, and I would also recommend looking at Lukasjenko own wealth mass, for example, and seeing which companies could be put on a sanction list. But it is also about the middle-way – those who actually do the deed by haunting, torturing and ultimately killing people in Belarus. They also deserve to be seen, labelled and ultimately also subject to sanctions. This is what happens to some of these democracy activists: they meet people with face masks and uniforms with no rank designation and name. The dark, hidden violence must be met by our reaction, and I also believe in that kind of broader sanction regime. The value of today's interpellation debate is that there is no silence in Sweden.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-138	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is of course extremely important that we from the Swedish side are clear that the elections were not conducted correctly and that we therefore do not respect the results of the elections either. The choice was not free, and it was not fair. This must also lead to some conclusions. I know that we from the Swedish side are soon entering a presidency of the OSSE. Perhaps the OSSE could have room to be a dialogue partner for the future of Belarus, but it is based on the fact that we do not see it as a way forward indefinitely. If the signals do not come from either Russia or Belarus that you are interested, the Swedish voice must, of course, become even clearer. We know that Lukasjenko term of office ends, and when it ends, there is no president in Belarus who can reasonably be recognised by us – unless there has been an election before. This requires a great deal of clarity as to what is going to happen. I also hope – as I understand it, Mr Wallmark on the basis of what he last indicated – that we should work closely with our Baltic neighbours, who have taken the lead. Last week we had a discussion on Magnitsky legislation, and it is clear that there is a reason not to let Belarus be kidnapped by either forces from Russia or Lukasjenko or forces from other EU countries that do not allow us to go forward and be clear about the threat of sanctions against, for example, the current President Lukasjenko. If it is the case that the EU does not have the power, we must decouple and act, together, to support those countries – such as the Baltic countries – which have been clear in sanctions. Together with others, we can go the way forward even if the EU does not, and I think that would be good reason to lift Magnitsky sanctions together with like-minded people in the EU. That way we can build power and strength from below, and then we can act and react while the so-called threat of sanctions has any effect. For if it lives for too long, it is perceived as a sign of weakness rather than even a question of strength on the part of the European Union. It is also devaluing the EU's ability, and our ability, to – as the Foreign Minister said so well in his response – support civil society and the free forces that exist in Belarus. They clearly show, in the streets, that they do not stand up for the old system and that they do not accept Lukasjenko.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-143	Madam President, I would like Of course, I am also very happy about the interpellation; as Wallmark says, this will be discussed every day of the week. I would have been incredibly much happier if this commitment had existed much, much earlier! 20 years ago, in the Socialist Party, we launched a campaign for a free and democratic Belarus, as it was then called. When we last Friday honored Anna Lindh, 17 years after she passed away, I put up a picture in my social media. On it is Anna on Sergel's Square in June 2002, with a big sign for freedom of expression and democracy in Belarus, as it was then called. We've been working on this for 20 years. Unfortunately, it has not been a successful campaign on the final goal, but it has given countless people who have worked in civil society and in opposition parties the opportunity to come to Sweden and have direct contacts with party associations all over the country. They have been given the opportunity to see what makes a democratic society. Håkan Svenneling makes fun of me and the Finnish Foreign Minister's visit to Minsk last year, which was the first bilateral foreign minister's visit in 27 years, but the Belarus organisations really do not make fun of it, quite the contrary. We met NGOs, trade unions and opposition parties. We met opposition parliamentarians who are now no longer opposition parliamentarians, because they were not voted into the rigged parliamentary elections, but they were elected during the last parliamentary term. We met student organisations, LGBTQ organisations and women's organisations. Everyone had the same message to us: Oh, how good that you come here, talk to us, help us and support us and do not consider us to be pariah! The only way for you to do that is to try to influence the regime as well. When we talk to the regime, these organisations are also given the opportunity to make themselves heard. One of the organisations told us that after our visit for the first time ever they had the opportunity to have direct contact with the ministry. They wouldn't have if we hadn't been there. It is easy to stand in the Speaker's Chair and make fun of yourself and say that it is more important to say tough, tough things in Sweden than to go there and do the job. I'm ready to go there and do the job. We show respect for their commitment, their difficulties and their threat of going to prison. As you know, I have also met Olga Kovalkova, had long talks with Svetlana Tichhanovskaya and for a long time had many other contacts in Belarus to really feel the situation. What they don't want is isolation. Then the question is how to achieve democratic development and new, free elections. After all, we do not recognise the elections that were held and the results of the elections that were published. Like the EU, we are doing constructive things by increasing aid. Only yesterday, the High Representative told us that EUR 53 million, which should have gone to the authorities, is now going directly to civil society, including those who have been injured by the violence by the police. These are concrete things that help those who courageously stand up for their freedom.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-150	Madam President, I would like Foreign Minister Linde highlights the historic struggle for freedom and democracy in Belarus. In this struggle, the Social Democrats and the Moderates have often played important roles. In my hometown of Karlstad, a social democrat arranged a meeting with belarusian activists when I was young and relatively new to politics. When he told me of the abuse and violence that he and his comrades suffered, my heart broke down, and my passion for the belarus people was kindled. It is important to remember that Sweden has been a pillar of democracy in Belarus for a long time, and I am pleased that the Foreign Minister is highlighting it. The Left Party has also highlighted this many times throughout history, also here in the Swedish parliament. We have written questions to many foreign ministers, ranging from Laila Freivalds to today's Ann Linde. For my part, you are welcome to go to Minsk, Ann Linde, but it should be clear that if you meet the President – if we call him so – Lukasjenko and Foreign Minister Makej it means a legitimisation of the Belarus regime. This must be understood. The timing of your and Haavistos visit was extremely inappropriate, as it was the week after a rigged parliamentary elections where you yourself say that the opposition went out. We've been into this. This morning we met here in Parliament representatives of the Coordination Council. I think it is incredibly important that Sweden should support the coordination council in the future, give it legitimacy and consider it to be the representative of the belarusian people. I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister how she views the coordination council. Over 4 000 people and organisations are members of it. It is open and public, clearly has a broad political spectrum and is trying to bring together the Berausian people to bring about democracy. When you told me about yesterday's meeting, Ann Linde, you still called them opposition. You could say that they are in relation to power. At the same time, however, it must be made clear that they are also the legitimate representatives of the Belarus people. Let me now deal with a few different types of personal matters. The article I now hold up is from my local newspaper at home in Värmland. Vitalik and Nadya Kruhlik live in Sunne, now deported to Belarus after nine years in Sweden. It is a shame when you are faced with such news on a day like this! The Finnish Immigration Service has not changed its assessments. You think it's completely safe to send people home. Here we have people who have tried to create a new life because they have been oppositionists in Belarus. Another case we have heard about in Aktuellt concerns the two activists who are present at the Swedish Embassy in Minsk, father and son Kuznetjik, and who are now trapped there. Here in Parliament we have a statue of Harald Edelstam, which in 1973 saved many people from the military coup in Chile. At the time, Social Democrat Krister Wickman was Minister of Foreign Affairs. Now it is you, Ann Linde, who is Secretary of State. I hope that Sweden will show its ability to act this time too. We also need to talk about sanctions. The fact that the EU has not imposed sanctions is absolutely incredible. It is understood that it is negotiations with various countries that have created gravel in the machinery, but it is an incredible failure of the EU's common foreign and security policy when, even after five weeks, it is not able to impose sanctions on the Belarus regime. Madam President, I would like I do not have much time left but would like to say a few words about Russia. It is clear that Russia has a role to play in this, and I think it is strongly done by the Foreign Minister to call Mr Lavrov, Russia's Foreign Minister, and speak to him directly, because there is a lot of power and the solution to the reality of democracy in Belarus.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-160	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister reminds us of the history of this party in relation to what is happening in Minsk. I can only highlight the history of my own party. I would say that we have had a very high level of activity since I entered the Riksdag, not because of me but because of colleagues. One of them, Christian Holm Barenfeld from Värmland, is no longer in the Riksdag. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs goes back in its actions and looks at all the questions and interpellations that have been asked from 2006 to today, I think it will be discovered that most of them are written by Moderates and especially many of Christian Holm. This is not about competing for who has been most active. But I think that the Foreign Minister is wrong in trying to deny that there are many who have tried to have a high noise level in the development of the former Belarus, now Belarus. The Berausian people have been repeatedly denied their democratic rights – their human rights and freedoms. This also deserves to be said from this speaker's seat. Madam President, I would like On November 5th Lukasjenko so-called presidential term will end and a new one will begin. This means that from 5 November Belarus will, by all reasonable standards, be without the Head of State. This is something that Sweden must relate to. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has to deal with this. This is something that the European Union must relate to. I think it is a good thing that sanctions are being prepared. I wish they were there. Tomorrow is September 16th. The so-called election was August 9th. Europe needs to move from words to action, and I hope and wish that Sweden would be the leader in this. Then it is just as Håkan Svenneling says: It is not possible to see the belarusic situation without understanding what Russia is doing and how Russia intervenes in different ways. That goes without saying. There's the tragic picture from yesterday with a begging Lukasjenko kneeling before President Putin.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-165	Madam President, I would like I think that the Foreign Minister should see the value of us standing up widely in Sweden for all those who are fighting in the streets and squares of Belarus for their freedom, for free elections and for them to have their elections respected in their own country. That's what matters. Then, of course, we have all read about the tours, which have been going on for quite some time. We have seen how sanctions have come and gone. And we read, as Lukasjenko and the regime do, how the reactions to different actions are. It is, of course, important to break this and see the momentum that actually exists, created by something that we have not seen before in Belarus, namely hundreds of thousands of people who defy police violence and the regime's attacks on peaceful demonstrators. They must feel our support. There I hope that the Foreign Minister will be clear, but not by seeking first of all to provide a platform for Lukasjenko, the regime and others to be involved in any discussion on 5 November. If you haven't responded, the bar will fall. Then Lukasjenko is no longer, as we see it, a president of Belarus. He doesn't have that foundation. In addition, Russia's role must be seen. I do not share the view that Russia is the one that could create the conditions for democracy. I do not think it is Russia's or Putin's main objective, but it is something quite different. We must also be clear about this and put a stop to it.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-170	Madam President, I would like Let me start by talking about just conversation and dialogue, as one might have. Earlier today I had a long conversation with a representative of mine, namely Jan Eliasson. We talked about how easy it is to say: You shouldn't talk to people. You're supposed to throw people out. There should be no dialogue. We talked about how difficult it is to do this and how wrong it is to say that a conversation is a legitimisation of someone, that a conversation makes someone friends with someone and that it is not about diplomatic tools, which it is. Last week we spoke here in Parliament about the fact that the African organisation Ecowas is now talking to the military junta in Mali and starting a dialogue with opposition and civil society in order to move to civilian rule. Of course, this does not mean that Ecowas legitimises the military junta. With this argument, one cannot have this kind of diplomatic conversation. The whole point of diplomacy falls if you say: Every time you talk to someone, you are friends with that person or you legitimize that person's government or regime or something. That is why it is important that we still have the offer of a national dialogue that the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has. The current President there is Albania, and Sweden has the forthcoming Presidency. At the moment, I would say, there is no possibility of such dialogue, because in principle the entire leadership of the opposition has been imprisoned and abducted. But when I have spoken to them from the opposition, they have been very careful to say: it is not just us in the lead. That's 4,000. That's 5,000. That's 6,000. Don't make the mistake of thinking that just because they take us away, there is no opposition! The opposition is large, broad and strong and will have support in different ways – through support to the various civil society organisations and so on. From the outset, right after 9 August, we have said that the elections were fraudulent and not fair. It wasn't free. There must be a new election, so that the Belarussian people can choose their own representatives. But it's not just snapping your fingers. You have to get it fixed. You have to make it happen. How do you do that? Yes, this is done by trying to establish a dialogue to ensure that there is a transition to a democratic society, and that is what we are trying to do now. Then I would like to say something about the sanctions. Together with the Baltics, Poland and the other Nordic countries, Sweden is really pushing for sanctions. I find it sad that the European Union has not taken a decision. That is truly regrettable. It also raises the question of how to make decisions in the EU on these issues. When unanimity is required, it can be difficult if there is a country that does not want to. We can push as much as we want and try to do what we want, but if it is a country that stops it, we will not get through it. It is sad that the European Union has not managed to do this with sanctions against Belarus. I fully agree with the interpeller.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-178	Madam President, I would like I think that the Foreign Minister confuses the cards a little bit with what we Members want. No one has forbidden Ann Linde to hold calls and push. No one has opposed the invitation to dialogue. All of us on the Foreign Affairs Committee are very proud that Sweden will be chairman of the OSSE and hope that it will go as well as possible. As a country holding the Presidency, we obviously need to represent the OSSE in this context. But the Swedish government has made a visit to Minsk that legitimised the current regime, and you have to be clear about that when you are the Swedish government and when you have the chairman's hat on. I think the Foreign Minister is mixing and giving a little too much right now. We note that the government has acted correctly on several points. Sanctions have been pushed in the way Ann Linde describes, and that's great. You need to tighten up your language, and you need to make clear what view you have of Lukasjenko as an illegitimate dictator. That is what I think we still do not have an answer to in this interpellation debate. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider the regime to be legitimate or illegitimate? What about the question of 5 November, when Lukasjenko presidential term ends? Does he end up formally, even in the Swedish sense, as president, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has still used as a concept? What is the view of the National Coordination Council? What legitimacy is the Minister for Foreign Affairs prepared to give the Co-ordination Council, which has clearly sought to bring together people from all sections of society in Belarus with the message that they want free and fair elections? They want to release political prisoners, and they want those responsible for violence and electoral fraud to be brought to justice. I think that we, as the Swedish Parliament, must send a clear message that we support their efforts.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-183	Madam President, I would like I repeat this because it seems unclear. The visit we made did not legitimise the regime. It was extremely welcomed by the opposition, civil society and NGOs in Belarus. I do not know how many times they have emphasised this, and I actually listen to them more on this issue. As far as the coordination council is concerned, it is only possible to say that it is the legitimate opposition in Belarus. One of the leaders, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, became number two of it in itself falsified the election. It cannot be said that it has been something because we do not approve of the elections, but it nevertheless showed a strong will on the part of the people to see Tikhanovskaya as one of the leaders of the opposition. When we have been criticised, among other things, by Russia for talking to the Co-ordination Council, because they are not a legitimate opposition, this is an argument which, among other things, I have used against Lavrov: it is certainly possible to see them as a legitimate opposition. Moreover, it is not Lukasjenko, me, the Swedish parliament or anyone else who will tell us who is a legitimate opposition, but they must do so themselves. And, of course, it is they who are being supported in Belarus to represent the opposition that we are going to talk to. Then I just want to say that Russia has an extremely decisive influence on how this is to go. I fully agree with Wallmark about the pictures and what came out of the meeting in Sochi. It was tragic. There's nothing else to say.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-187	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow has asked me what I intend to do to specifically combat aphrophobic society and what specific measures the government has taken to identify, make visible and combat structural and institutional racism in Sweden. Recent events and testimony leave no one unmoved. They show more than ever the importance of the work against aphrophobia and other forms of racism. Racism has no place in Sweden. Nevertheless, it is part of our history and our present. In Sweden, racism takes different forms, such as hate crime, discrimination in the labour market or housing market, or experiences of being treated worse in contact with authorities. In order for the work against racism to be able to meet the challenges that exist in society, long-term and structured work is required. The starting point for this work is the government's national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime. The plan highlights aphrophobia as one of several forms of racism that need special attention. This is done, among other things, within the framework of the training activities carried out by the Living History Forum on various forms of racism in history and today. Information that people exposed to racism have a lower level of confidence in public authorities and other public activities needs to be taken seriously in all areas of public administration. It is essential that public authorities and other public activities always address individuals in an equivalent and legally secure manner, and this requires continuous efforts to improve skills. Therefore, at the beginning of the year, the Government strengthened the Living History Forum's work to train school staff and other public employees on how to ensure quality public services are treated by the public through anti-racist work. Furthermore, continued active work by the judiciary and other actors is needed to, among other things, counter hate crimes and strengthen security. Dialogue and interaction with vulnerable and civil society organisations is an important element in combating various forms of racism. The fact that Afros Swedish people are particularly vulnerable in the labour market, among other things, is supported by several reports and experience surveys. According to one of these, Afroschens need to have a doctoral education in order to gain the same disposable income as a person in the rest of the population who has completed a three-year post-secondary education. In order to make visible limiting norms around skin colour and help to remove obstacles to Afros Swedish people, and other people at risk of being exposed to racism, to have access to equal rights in the labour market, the government last summer gave a commission to the county boards to increase knowledge and awareness among actors in the labour market about racism, with a focus on afrophobia. It is important to make historical abuses associated with racism and structural discrimination in today's society visible in the work as well. Racism against Africans and other groups also exposed to racism is a serious and real problem which we cannot tolerate and which we must take responsibility in politics to combat with full force. The fight against racism is not a one-off effort. Step by step, racism must be suppressed. It is a long-term work where responsibility lies with all of us – every day in every part of our society.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-197	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking Minister Lindhagen for her answer. Today is the International Day for Democracy and therefore a suitable day to talk precisely about the threat to democracy in the form of racism. The initiatives highlighted by the Minister are very welcome. But as I and other Africans can testify, they have long been insufficient to counteract the structural discrimination and racism that affects Africans every day in Sweden. Sweden and the Swedish government are still happy to beat their chests as one of the world's most equal and equal countries. But when blacks and others raged around the world harassed, abused, profiled, humiliated, murdered and lynched publicly and perpetrators go free, we find ourselves in a world where the bar for how we treat each other is lowered by every minute. There is no need for closer scrutiny to see that this self-proclaimed title has been watered down and has no real significance. On April 3, 2019, the whole of Sweden witnessed a terrible and brutal event via a mobile video. A pregnant African woman in the eighth month – Jeanine, I say her name so that we remember it – was on her way to the hospital with pains when she was forced by the subway by a number of security officers at a ticket check. The films show how she is forced out of the train under violent circumstances. She's screaming for her life. Her uprooted daughter weeps, and other women on the platform appeal to the guards to calm down and take into account the fact that the man they pull and toil in is highly pregnant. She was pressed down on a bench with her stomach down and a guard's neck in her back-- panicked, frightened, humiliated and humiliated in front of her child. Shortly after this terrible afrophobic event, Expressen made a unique survey of the security companies and found over 170 employees linked to right-wing extremism, including leading Nazis from the Nazi Nordic Resistance, who have worked for the security companies for several years. These guards have only 40 hours of training – less than a week. They have a monopoly of violence, and they attack people under impunity. They go free every time. This is a reality that I not only like something, but it is a reality that I know. I am also one of those who have been subjected to this type of violence. These are not individual cases, but the ethnic profiling that we see in society is systematic. Benjamin Antwi was dragged out of the train because he questioned the train host and the police. It happened three days ago in Malmö. He was humiliated. Unprovoked violence was used when he asked what he had done. You're supposed to be able to ask that question to the police or security guard, right? Sweden is not the exception. Racism affects everyone, adults and young people, but above all children are affected. A few weeks ago, thousands of parents in an open letter to school and school politicians demanded measures for a school free from racism and aphrophobia. There's terrible testimony there. I have brought this petition with me, if the Government has not had time to read these statements. We live in the same country but with different conditions.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Member of Parliament for raising these extremely important issues of fundamental values, the equal value of all people and human rights! We need to become more aware in Sweden that we have problems with racism, that there is structural racism and that we have a political responsibility to do something about it. I think there are many of us who are touched by the stories we hear about people who are treated differently because they have a certain skin colour. We also need to become more aware in Sweden that skin colour is important, both in terms of our own history of our role in the transatlantic slave trade and in terms of the racism that exists here and now and which causes enormous harm to people's lives. This applies not least in children's lives, just as the Member of Parliament lifts. If it is somewhere where we should succeed, it is creating security for children in our society. No child should have to go to school and be afraid of being exposed to racism. No adult, and no child, should have to be afraid of being in public transport, in the public room or in the grocery store. People have the right to feel safe no matter who we are or what we look like. The debate we have now on racism in society is really needed. We need to get our eyes open both in society and in politics because we have a responsibility to combat racism. We must see that it is here in Sweden, that it destroys, divides and damages, and we need to do something about it. The government has taken steps. There has not even been a plan in Sweden for the work against racism. The government's first plan was adopted in 2016 and shows how to fight and take steps to push back racism. There hasn't even been a plan before. This year's state budget is the largest ever to work against racism. The budget goes, among other things, to educational measures, to the Living History Forum, which trains various professional groups, such as social secretaries, teachers, police officers, on racism and on how we can combat racism. The government has given the task of developing more knowledge about the situation in society of people who are exposed to racism, such as anti-Semitism, and also the situation of Muslims. We need to learn more about the situation of Africans. More knowledge is needed, but we do not need more knowledge to know that we are going to act. We already know that. Right now, an investigation is being conducted into security guards. You should look at the rules that exist, including what is to be included in the training, and what requirements are to be made to be approved as a guard. It is a very important investigation that is going on right now. The government has also strengthened the work against hate crimes in the police, and recently this summer we commissioned all county boards to look at aphrophobia linked to the labour market, to make problems visible and to develop measures, and to counteract obstacles to Afrosvenska's opportunities to work on the labour market on equal terms. Is this enough? No, it doesn't. The honourable Member is absolutely right that we need to do more. But we are taking steps forward, and I am glad that we are having this debate in Sweden. Unfortunately, it's needed. Yes, we need to do more.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-219	Madam President, I would like Let me thank the Minister for her commitment and, above all, for her recognition of Sweden's historical heritage. It is very important to have the context and context to understand what is happening today. My interpellation with the Minister raises the issue of measures against structural and institutional aphrophobia. I'm aware of the plan, and I've been personally involved in the plan. But as the Minister says, it is not enough. In Sweden, structural discrimination and racism are characteristic and require clear, concrete and targeted measures. One area where we see large and acute long-term needs is health and medical care, where Afrosvens and others racially disadvantaged in health care. No one has failed to read about the tragic death of 16-year-old Kwakus as a result of his refusal of emergency ambulance care. I went to see Kwakus's parents. I sat and talked to his father and mother, and I remember one thing that I will never forget. The mother answered several times when I asked what they wanted: I want my son back. I can't fix it. But one thing we can do is work every day to ensure that no child will have to die because of being denied medical care in Sweden – one of the richest countries in the world. This is tragic and a terrible fate for Kwaku and his family, but they are far from alone. First - time mother Asha, 23 years old, almost lost her life in childbirth because no one took her pain seriously. Asha repeatedly pointed out that she experienced terrible pains, but instead of examination and care, she heard derogatory comments linked to her ethnicity. Let me quote Asha's article: She was still feeling bad. I told her I'd call for help if she wasn't going to help me. Instead, she was given a morphine tablet. Right after Asha took it, she screamed that she's going to die, that she couldn't breathe. I saw three people in the room, and then I collapsed. I then remember waking up from the use of heart-starters and a doctor screaming: Asha, Asha, are you awake? Asha says with tears in her eyes. She had fallen into septic shock, a life-threatening condition, and all the organs failed. ..................................................... Nine bags of blood were needed, and she had a cardiac arrest twice. Should you have to experience this because you look like you do? That can't be reasonable. We must do everything we can to ensure that this never happens again. We live in the same country but with different conditions. It matters what name you have, what skin color you have and where you were born. Being an anti-racist means seeing this and wanting to do something about it. Just being against racism is not enough. We must be anti-racists, and we must work every day to ensure that people's living conditions are not undermined in the way we can see in Sweden today.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-233	Madam President, I would like No one is left untouched by these stories, not least when it comes to a child. I have also taken note of the article quoted by the honourable Member, and it is clear that these stories make a great impression. As I said before, there are so many stories... if we just make sure to listen to what people are telling. I know that foreign-born women are four times as likely to die in childbirth. Women from different parts of Africa, in particular, are at increased risk. It is clear that society needs to work with all the different elements that exist to combat racism. There are not some things we can pick out to target ourselves there and solve the problems. The very essence of structural racism is that it exists in different parts of society, and we need to work broadly. There is also no quickfix, but many different efforts can form a whole, where we still make sure to take steps forward. It is important that we continue to work with knowledge efforts, that we continue to provide resources from the state side to increase knowledge about racism and how we can prevent racism. It is important to have the money the government has provided in the budget and the mission of the Living History Forum. There are now 24 authorities working on this plan, which the Member of Parliament has also been part of the work to develop. I take this opportunity to say thank you for that work. Those authorities have not had those missions before. 24 authorities are gathering to ensure that we take more steps forward. I also think it is important that we continue to give civil society the opportunity to run the work, not least the anti-racist work. The government has also provided additional funding in this year's budget. This is important in order to be able to access knowledge, for example from anti-discrimination agencies that are around society and that share people's stories. They sit on great knowledge. This also applies to other organisations, such as Afrosvenskarnas Riksorganisation and Afrosvenskarnas Forum for Justice, with which I have a dialogue, and to take note of their experience and knowledge. This also applies to the voting role; their role of continuing to put pressure on us politicians is extremely important. The ultimate responsibility for taking steps forward will never land anywhere else than on us politicians. Of course, the government has the greatest responsibility for us to continue to carry on our work with vigour. I think that both civil society and knowledge efforts are important. Police work against hate crimes needs to continue. We need to give assignments to increase knowledge of the labour market and the housing market, for example, in order to get more back to the government about what we need to take for concrete steps and do to increase knowledge in general. We also need to work on anti-discrimination legislation, as we are doing right now in terms of how we can prevent discrimination in our workplaces. There's an investigation going on. We need to work against racism at school, and we need to keep taking steps forward.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-242	Madam President, I would like I mentioned these examples. There are many, and I can't mention them all. But the problem is that they are often invisible. When we talk about racism in Sweden, we often meet with culture of silence, denial and color blindness. When we talk about Black live maths, MPs and high-ranking politicians say it's an American problem. It does not exist in Sweden. I know it's in Sweden. The things I say are not things I think; they are things I know. I am a spokesperson for housing policy, but every time I speak, people do not attack my politics, but they attack my skin colour and ethnicity. 90% of all the attacks I get are about my skin color and ethnicity, not politics that I'm conducting. It is even in this Chamber. I remember when I came into Parliament and came to the opening with my daughter. All my colleagues were referred to the House. I was referred to the gallery because I am carrying a body which, in their opinion, does not belong in this House. So I know what I'm talking about. For those people who have never been exposed to this, it may not matter. For those of us who are exposed to this daily, it tears open wounds that never heal. My children, too, are exposed to this, they and all the other Afro-Swedish children and racialized children. It's an everyday pain. It is a trauma that we experience every day and that costs some people their lives. That's why it's important that we don't just talk about it. We must move from words to deeds. I hope that Åsa Lindhagen is prepared to move from words to actions, for Kwakus's life, Ashas's life, the life of the pregnant Afro-Swedish woman Jeanine and the life of all Afro-Swedish children are worth as much as everyone else's in this country. That's why we say that Black live maths.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-247	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Black Live math movement that started in the United States is of enormous importance, and I think it is extremely important that we are completely clear to us that this movement is also needed here in Sweden. I agree with what the honourable Member says about the fact that we do not have enough awareness that skin colour matters. We must begin by understanding and acknowledging the problem, but then we must also act. As the honourable Member points out, anti-racism is not just about seeing the problem, but we need to do so. Actually, we need to talk about it. But it is also a question of taking steps forward. Is this an American problem? Yes, but it is also a Swedish problem. I think there are many of us who are particularly concerned when it comes to children. Children should be allowed to grow up because it is obvious that we all have the same value. But we know that there are children who grow up and feel on the skin that there is a difference between them and others. It is one of the things that concerns me most, that we have children here in Sweden who think that they are not as much worth. We really need to do something about that. Are there any children listening? To all who listen: Never doubt your worth! If you are exposed to racism, to discrimination, the responsibility for it lies with those who carry out the racist act, but also with us politicians there is a great responsibility to act against racism. I would like to thank the honourable Member for giving me these statements about children's experiences at school, the place where all children should feel safe. Yeah, we got a job to do. Once again, thank you, Member of Parliament, for raising these questions!
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-253	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me whether I will complete the January agreement in the part relating to the unemployment fund. On the subject of Mats Green's question, I would like to make the following point. A well-functioning unemployment insurance is important both for the individual and for society at large. Unemployment insurance has a role to play in structural change and for the Swedish economy to be open and dynamic. Unemployment insurance also provides financial security to those who lose their jobs and need to switch between jobs. Unemployment insurance needs to be better adapted to the current labour market. The Government therefore decided in early 2018 on a committee directive on a new unemployment insurance for more, based on income, with the aim of designing a new and more effective unemployment insurance. In June 2019, the study was commissioned to analyse and propose in particular how unemployment benefits can be reduced clearly in line with the length of unemployment. The mission is in accordance with the agreement on the unemployment fund agreed by the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party in the January agreement. The report was submitted to the government at the beginning of the summer and is now subject to referral. The government will take responsibility for unemployment insurance. During the spring, the government has initiated several temporary measures and temporarily increased daily allowances in unemployment insurance for the benefit of the Corona virus's effects on the labour market. These, too, are the result of an agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-258	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. What was left here now was perhaps an answer to someone's question but not really to my question, if I'm going to be a little crass. Madam President, I would like We can note that the parties of the January Agreement, that is, the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, are now consistently weakening the work line – especially now that it is needed perhaps more than almost ever before if we are to cope with welfare and if we are to cope with health care. The budgetary exercise last week on taxes was the most recent example of this, despite the promises made to the contrary in the January agreement regarding the maintenance of the work line. I quote from the January Agreement, paragraph 19: Unemployment insurance is to be reformed in line with a flexicurity model and opened to more people who have worked, are based on income and are being scaled down and phased out in line with the length of unemployment. So is paragraph 19 of the January Agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals and the very premise that the Social Democrats and the Green Party could remain in government during the current term of office. In the light, Madam President, of the declared ambition of social democrats and environmentalists to break this part of the January agreement, I have asked Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark whether the government intends to complete the January agreement in this part. In his reply, the Minister refers to the study on unemployment benefit, which presented its final report in June of this year and which has been commissioned to look at and propose how paragraph 19 of the January Agreement can be implemented. The problem is just, Madam President, that an investigation is one thing and a government proposal is quite another. We see this not least when it comes to the LAS investigation, which was presented a week before. The Social Democrats, led by the Prime Minister, then made it clear that they do not intend to implement it as a whole. So I am now forced to repeat my simple question, which, moreover, can easily be answered by a yes or a no: will the government implement paragraph 19 of the January agreement, yes or no?
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-265	Madam President, I would like I will give you a brief and clear answer, Mats Green : Yes, we will complete the January agreement on unemployment insurance. I would also like to clarify something that is obvious to us Social Democrats: the line of work is not in contrast to the security of employees, rather the opposite – they go hand in hand. I would also like to remind Mats Green that the first thing you moderates did when you came to power in 2006 was to go to the unemployment fund. You shocked the charges to the unemployment fund and made sure that the conditions were impaired, and you did so in a flash. Two weeks was the time taken by the consultation bodies to comment on your proposals. So you were in a hurry to dismantle the register. I remember this well, because I was one of thousands who stood on Coins Square here outside the Riksdag and protested against your policy. Then what happened? What were the consequences? Well, 400 000 people chose to leave the unemployment fund, and we all know what happened the following year, 2008: we had a financial crisis. I was then chairman of the SKTF trade union, now Vision, and met people who had lost their job but who also, because of the policy you were conducting at the time, stood without compensation from the checkout because they were no longer in the unemployment fund. We shall not experience such a situation again. That is why, as a social democrat and former union leader, I am incredibly proud of the temporary reinforcements we have made in the unemployment fund under the coronapndemin. We have ensured that more are covered by the financial security provided by the unemployment fund, changed the terms and increased the compensation. This is incredibly important in the time we now live in in the Swedish labour market. In addition, I can tell you that between March and July, the number of members of the a-kassas has increased by 237 000. It took so long, Mats Green, before we could repair the procedure you did at the unemployment fund during your time at the government. These temporary reinforcements make a difference to people. They allow you to keep your townhouse for a short period of unemployment. They make it possible to buy those soccer shoes for the kids. So these are incredibly important efforts and reinforcements we have made. However, this is also about us not just turning to the individual; this is also a smart policy for our society. A strong unemployment fund maintains the purchasing power of the economy, and this means that we do not run the same risk of strengthening the recession. My view and that of the government is that when the labour market changes, the security systems must keep up. Long-term changes are needed, not just temporary solutions, for more to be covered. I believe that unemployment insurance must be much better adapted to the labour market we have today, to self-employed workers, to those who are combinators and to those who have temporary jobs. We need to broaden the unemployment fund so that they too are covered by security. That's why we set up the investigation in 2018. I am pleased that, through the January agreement, we agree with the Centre Party and the Liberals on the need to develop the unemployment fund. Together, we will take responsibility for the unemployment fund becoming the conversion insurance that it needs to be in a rapidly changing labour market. But the big question is, What do the Moderates really want? I think it would be very interesting to hear Mats Green develop what the Moderates want with the unemployment fund. I think the voters are interested. I also believe that the 3.9 million people who are members of the unemployment fund today are interested in hearing what you, if you had the opportunity, would do with the unemployment fund.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-275	Madam President, I would like I note that the changes made by the Alliance Government – as the Minister himself says – must, of course, accompany and adapt to changes in the labour market – were necessary in order to begin the fight against exclusion, which, moreover, was achieved above expectations, albeit not fully. But it succeeded in reducing exclusion, also in an extreme recession. We also see how the changes in unemployment insurance that the Social Democrats made in the last period have meant that Sweden, before the Corona, had the highest unemployment rate ever in a boom. This led, among other things, to Stefan Lövven's solemn promise – there have been quite a few, and quite a lot of talk about everything that is unacceptable – that Sweden 2020 should have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Instead, we were at the absolute top of the European Union. I note that this was before the Corona. Sweden is now higher than Italy in terms of unemployment. This says quite a lot about the challenges that politics faces, but also a lot about the failure for which Social Democracy is responsible. As far as the unemployment fund is concerned in general, I am pleased that we have proposed that it should become more of a conversion insurance policy, which above all means better opportunities and greater incentives to find a job and be employable. In the past, the Social Democrats have opposed everything that conversion insurance is really about. I am glad that now, certainly during the gallows, we have had to acknowledge the soundness of the line we have taken there. I welcome the turnaround of the Social Democrats on this issue, but I think we have every reason to discuss it in the future. I have a rather obvious question, given what the Minister said about, as she herself said, the temporary increases in the register. Can the Minister now tell us that these increases will only be temporary? So, next week, will there not be a proposal in the state budget for their permanence? This would be a blow to the work line, but above all it would mean crowding out other important investments in welfare and health care. And while we are on that subject, it is the work line that needs to be maintained there; we need more people working in welfare and care, not less. Again – should I interpret the Minister's statement as saying that, as she herself put it, the temporary changes in the unemployment fund are just temporary? I would like an answer to that.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-280	Madam President, I would like As a social democrat, I am very proud of the reinforcements we have made in the unemployment fund during the pandemic – they are absolutely necessary. As Mats Green will know and understand, I have no budget news today. Our Minister for Finance and the Government will come back with a statement on this with regard to the forthcoming budget. But what I want to say is that unemployment insurance is meant to provide financial security during the time between jobs. That's the way it's always been. This is good for the individual and for society. Social democratic labour market policy is both duty and right. You have a duty to be at the disposal of the labour market and to be active and seek employment. Everyone who can work should work– there is no difference during the coronapandemine. That is what this duty is about. But you also have a right. If you meet the requirements, you should be sure to have the security provided by the unemployment insurance fund between jobs when you are at the disposal of the labour market. This is what this court is about. I think there is a dividing line in Swedish politics. As soon as the Moderates get the chance, you slaughter labour market policies and make sure that the conditions of unemployment insurance are reduced because you lean against an idea that is about hungry wolves chasing the best. That's how you get people to work. We have a completely different policy. For us, it's about security in change. I also believe that we must realise that if Sweden is to remain an open and dynamic economy, we must be able to accept change. And the A-Cash has an incredibly central role in ensuring that people can feel secure in this change, because without security, any change becomes a threat. Then the green transition becomes something unpleasant, unpredictable. Then technology development and globalisation will also be a threat to people. The unemployment fund has a crucial role to play in creating security in the change. We often talk about the Swedish labour market model as protected people, not jobs, precisely because it is designed to promote the important structural change that actually gives both employees financial security and companies competitiveness and ensures that Sweden can continue to develop. To lean against an idea that hungry wolves hunt best is both short-term and very risky, because it risks that the Swedish economy is stagnating. This is a dividing line in Swedish politics. We stand for duty and right. The Moderates talk a lot about duty. I wonder, where is the court? The line of work is not in contrast to the security of Sweden's employees, rather the opposite. They go hand in hand, for it is through security that we can face the future.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-291	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I note that the wording of the January agreement that we are now discussing is something that we have stood for a long time. In the past, you demonised Social Democrats just that and thought it was terrible, and now it is you yourselves who are going to implement that policy. It is the same as when Stefan Löfven is talking about the diabolical with tax cuts, that they threaten welfare and that is really why we have a growing and exploding clan crime in Sweden. But when the Social Democrats come up with tax cuts, the reasoning is always that it is all right when we do it. As far as the Social Democratic line of work is concerned, I can see that when you talk about labour market policy, you are talking about more money to administer unemployment, if you are going to be a little harsh. When we talk about employment policy, it is above all about ensuring that more people have an opportunity to get a job, especially by having more jobs and more companies that can and dare to start and grow. But it's also about doing that maybe a little tougher and harder but that's necessary, that is, it has to pay off for more people to go to work. With regard to the changes in the unemployment fund, I note once again that the Minister calls them temporary. Then I assume that what was temporary on Tuesday is also temporary on Monday and that the increases will not be permanent. Once again, I would like the Minister for Labour to problematise the failures of the last parliamentary term, when we had the highest unemployment rate in Sweden during a boom. Then it is clear that you are extremely ill prepared to deal with rising unemployment in the wake of the Corona. I would like to hear a little more about this.
i-e4df788fe8aeae16-295	Madam President, I would like As I said, I cannot present any budget news today in the speaker's chair. This is an interpellation debate. But of course it is no secret that as a social democrat I see a need to equip and develop unemployment insurance. It is extremely central to our adaptability, to the security of the individual and to the development of society, just as I have explained. We are currently in the most serious crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. 100 000 people have been given notice of dismissal, and about half a million people are registered as unemployed. I understand that a great many people are very concerned, and I would like to take this opportunity to turn to all of you who are concerned and are seeing this debate. The government has taken historically strong measures to save Swedish jobs. But it is also important as employees that you look at your house and think about what happens if you lose your job and what you can do to strengthen your income security. In view of this, I have three requests. First of all, join the unemployment fund! It is just as important to have your income secured as having home insurance. Secondly, ask your employer what supplementary insurance is available at the workplace! If you work at a workplace with collective agreements, there are usually such. Thirdly, see if you have income insurance through your trade union! It is often part of the membership. If you are not yet a member of the union, join! That is an important call. We have a very tough situation in the Swedish labour market. But we're not leaving anyone in the lurch. We're gonna get through this together. Finally, I would like to thank Mats Green for the opportunity to discuss a checkout, this central part of Swedish labour market policy. Thank you very much, Madam President, for today.
