i-59de12953dc67ddf-1	Madam President, I would like Even before the Corona crisis struck with full force against the Swedish labour market, we saw extensive structural problems in Sweden. We had a growing alienation that took root in area after area around the country. Between October 2014, when Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister in Sweden, and February this year, just before the Corona crisis hit the labour market, unemployment fell in all EU countries except one: Sweden. We have a need for structural reforms in the Swedish labour market, and it is now urgent, not least in the light of the crisis. We see that reforms are needed to make it more profitable to work. We see that reforms are needed in order to have a functioning state employment service, an employment service that actually focuses on those who are absolutely the furthest from the labour market and who are in absolutely the most need of support. We need to reform the transition opportunities in the Swedish labour market – the opportunities to change careers in the middle of life and to equip themselves, perhaps to train for a new profession, to be able to work for a few more years. We also see, Madam President, the need to facilitate and improve opportunities for those who choose to set up a business. It is this matter that we are discussing here today. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed Arbetsförmedlingen's work to facilitate support for business activities. As shown in the Swedish National Audit Office's report, a wide range of proposals for action are made. We have chosen to reserve ourselves against the committee's proposal, given that we would like several of the measures proposed by the National Audit Office to become part of the government's policy. We would like to support these proposals. One is that we want to see a greater review of work to support business activities. We see that in the reform of the Public Employment Service as a whole there is a need to reform these parts too. The second is aid for over-indebtedness, where we see that there is a considerable risk. It is clear from the audit that the employment mediators provide information in various ways. This is not consistent, but depending on where you are in the country, the risks of over-indebtedness differ. We would like this to be clarified in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Since we did not get a say in this, we have reserved ourselves, and I therefore choose today to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-6	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the labour market programme Support for the start of business activities. The review of the programme is welcome and something that we consider important in order to obtain the best possible exchange of resources from labour market policies. The Swedish Democrats believe that people who think of starting their own business should be encouraged and receive the support needed to create an activity that will be as successful as possible. It is an important starting point for entrepreneurship and innovation. Therefore, the Programme Support for the Start-up of Business is an important programme to help future entrepreneurs above the threshold of starting a business for the first time. Four out of five jobs are created by SMEs. A good business idea deserves to be tested, and successful entrepreneurship leads to more employees. To succeed in their idea and to create profitability is not only beneficial for the individual but also for society as a whole. The Swedish Democrats care about small businesses and want to make it easier for more people to have the courage to start their first business. It is clear that the current system is not perfect for entrepreneurs, and we want to make it easier for small businesses by, among other things, reducing employers' contributions for the smallest companies and reviewing the regulatory framework to prevent the hassle experienced by many entrepreneurs in running their business today. The Swedish Democrats will always prioritise and help small businesses, and we are prepared to go very far to achieve this goal. As an example, the Swedish democrats have gone a long way to save Sweden's economy and small business. We have, among other things, launched six sharp crisis measures, such as the abolition of employers' contributions and self-contribution over six months and earmarked money directly targeted as support linked to fixed costs, such as rental costs, for small companies. The aid is linked to the development of the company in recent months. We have also gone out and said that the state should take full cost responsibility for layoffs arising in the wake of the crisis. The loans intended to go to companies should be linked to a government guarantee, which ensures that the banks actually lend the money. The interest rate for this short-term borrowing shall be set at zero. Finally, the unemployment fund will be increased by increased ceilings and extended to include more than is currently the case. This is really an active small business policy, Madam President. In the modern labour market we see clear signs that more people choose to run their own business. We want Arbetsförmedlingen to focus more on the programme to make it better and more effective, not least as a successful labour market measure. That is why we want to see a complete review of the programme. The Swedish National Audit Office chooses to direct its actions to Arbetsförmedlingen, which is quite natural because the agency is responsible for the programme. However, we believe that the government, which governs the agency, should assume its responsibilities and give a clear mandate to the Public Employment Service. The consequences of the coronapandemy are devastating, and they are, unfortunately, expected to get even worse. It is important, then, to have clear leadership leading the way to future labour market policies. When the crisis is over, a strong labour market policy is required to stand on, and then work should start before, not after, especially in view of the reform that the agency is now going through. We therefore believe that the government, as stated in the reservation, should produce an action plan with clear requirements for the Employment Service to counter over-indebtedness among participants in the labour market policy programme. We also believe that a review and a holistic approach to the programme is needed, and the government should, in our view, come back with proposals to change this. Finally, I would ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-14	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on support for the start of business activities – long-term effects and the Swedish Public Employment Service's working methods. We Christian Democrats believe that the state has a great responsibility to support a dynamic small business, in which individual people's ideas, creativity and entrepreneurship are given an opportunity to flourish. The personal initiative forms the basis for business start-ups. It is important that initiatives and creativity are encouraged, for example through the education system, through a good business environment and by precisely supporting the unemployed with the drive to create their very own jobs. The start-up grant was started in 1984 and changed its name to Support for the start-up of business in 2000. It is a labour market policy programme aimed precisely at giving unemployed people an opportunity to start their own business. The aid includes an activity aid for a maximum period of six months and may be granted to those who, under the Regulation on labour market policy programmes, are deemed to be well placed to operate the business activity with satisfactory profitability and who, through the activity, can achieve sustainable employment. However, from 2016 to today, the only tough criteria that need to be met in order to benefit from the support are that the job seeker is enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen and has turned 18 years of age. In 2018, approximately 5,100 participants participated, which was approximately 1,500 participants per month. The total cost of the 2018 programme was SEK 203 million. In its review, the Swedish National Audit Office has looked at whether the programme is an effective measure compared with, for example, participating in other labour market policy programmes. The results of the review show that the participants in this particular programme received a shorter unemployment rate and fewer payments from the social security system compared to those who were openly unemployed or participated in any other labour market policy effort. If the result is measured in this way, it thus appears to be a very successful programme. Madam President, I would like But this is not really the whole truth, as the review also shows that participation in the program Support for the start-up of business unfortunately generated lower income over several years and increased the risk of long-term debt at Kronofogden by about 60 percent. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its review report that it is clear from the Swedish Public Employment Service's administrative support that the employment intermediary should inform about the risks of running its own business and about the special liability for payment that applies to individual traders and trading companies. However, this is not applied on a regular basis. It is consultants who review the job seeker's business plan and budget that the Arbetsförmedlingen then has the task of supporting or abstinence. It is unusual for consultants to fully reject business plans and budgets. It is also unusual for the employment intermediary to deviate from the consultant's recommendation, because he simply does not have the competence to make a commercial assessment. The employment agency's administrator's support also recommends that the administrator comply with the consultant's request. It is then the same consultants who, in a positive programme decision, have the opportunity to charge up to 20 hours of mentoring time to the participant and follow-up reports. Madam President, I would like We see obvious problems with the design of the programme that should be addressed in order for us to have more successful entrepreneurs. It simply cannot be right that a state labour market policy programme should lead to such over-indebtedness among participants. We therefore believe that the government actually has a responsibility to return with an action plan in order to counter the over-indebtedness of future participants in the Support for Start-up Business programme. The employment services are currently under enormous pressure as a result of the ongoing pandemic of high alert rates and an increasing number of newly enrolled unemployed, while the agency is facing a major reform. In such a situation, it is important for the government to show leadership and give clear assignments to the authority. Abstaining responsibility on the grounds that the Swedish National Audit Office does not make any recommendations to the Government in its report is not responsible action. We believe that there should be a review of and a holistic approach to the programme "Support for the Start-up of Business" and that the government should come back with proposals to change the programme and how this can be properly implemented in the framework of the reform of the Public Employment Service. Madam President, I would like I therefore support this reservation. Finally, our business community is heavily affected by the pandemic, and we see how entrepreneurs are struggling to save tomorrow for their employees, for their family and for themselves. We must do more to support those who are now fighting. And we need to do more to ensure that even more people, despite the tough times we are in, dare not let go of the thought of putting their idea into practice. That is why it is so important that the government also takes responsibility for the programme Support for the start-up of business. Perhaps it will be needed more than ever. But then you also have to be prepared to do more so that it really will have the effect that we so desperately need.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-33	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Support for Starting Business, which is a labour market policy programme to which the Swedish Public Employment Service can, after a labour market policy assessment, assign job seekers. The employment agency currently has procured services, both for assessing the individual's ability to run a business and for training in entrepreneurship. Aid is provided if it is justified by labour market policy reasons for those who are deemed to be well placed to run businesses and if the activity is deemed to have satisfactory profitability and thereby be able to provide sustainable employment.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-36	Madam President, I would like Previous evaluations and the Swedish National Audit Office's review show that the programme Support for the start-up of economic activities is a labour market policy measure that has consistently shown very positive employment effects compared to other interventions. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the programme generally works well but that efficiency can still be improved. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that the programme has a positive effect on public finances, mainly due to reduced payments from the social security system after the individuals participated in the programme. However, the review shows that participation in the programme does not lead to an increase in income, and the Swedish National Audit Office points out an increased risk of over-indebtedness. Madam President, I would like We welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review and believe that it is good that the deficiencies are made visible, debated and corrected. We believe that the review is an important contribution to Arbetsförmedlingen's governance, use and follow-up of the programme. But, Madam President, right now, all our focus is on combating covid-19, which poses a danger to people's lives and health and has led to serious consequences for jobs and the economy both globally and in Sweden. Since the outbreak of the virus, the government and the cooperation parties with broad support from the Riksdag have presented many measures to counteract and alleviate the outbreak of the virus, including efforts to reduce the spread of infection, to ensure that healthcare has the necessary resources and to save jobs. In addition, we must also ensure that people have the necessary financial security when the effects of the crisis strike. In recent weeks we have seen a large number of notifications on the Swedish labour market. We do not yet know how many of them will lead to dismissal. However, we must be prepared for more people to become unemployed and for more people to need support from unemployment insurance and from labour market policies. Therefore, we believe that the Swedish Public Employment Service needs to focus on managing the emergency situation here and now and on enabling all individuals enrolled in the agency to receive the support they need. The Employment Service will contribute to an active labour market policy. This is particularly important now in order for us to be better able to face developments where more people are deemed to be unemployed. Active labour market policies include, among other things, the S education programme for the start of economic activity, which is why we welcome the fact that the government has announced an extension of the programme to strengthen the conditions for meeting an increase in unemployment. Madam President, I would like Swedish jobs and companies are hard hit by the virus, and the government has already presented crisis measures for over SEK 130 billion. In order for more companies to survive and fewer employees to lose their jobs, we have introduced short-term lay-off, i.e. that employees go down in working hours for a period of time and retain a large part of their salary while the state goes in and provides financial support to the employer. Until yesterday, more than 31 000 applications had been granted. More than 274,000 employees are covered. To date, short-term leave has been agreed in nearly 523 of the 666 collective agreements in the private sector. This means that 90% of employees in business who have collective agreements, about 2 million employees, are subject to short-term lay-off. In addition to this, we are also reducing employers' costs by temporarily taking over sick pay costs and reducing employers' and self-employed contributions. Companies in vulnerable sectors receive support for reduced rent, and all receive liquidity support through the tax account. These measures will save many jobs, but not all. We will have to do more, but we can see that companies will still go bankrupt and that people will be unemployed. That is why we are strengthening the security of the unemployed. Financial security is strengthened with a better unemployment fund, and at the same time the Employment Service receives more money for efforts that lead to jobs. The employment agency's financial framework has been increased by just over SEK 2 billion – SEK 330 million for the grant and SEK 1.8 billion for programme funding and compensation. More places are created in vocational education and training and in higher education institutions and universities to make it easier for people to replenish their skills or switch to a new job. Madam President, I would like The economic policy of recent years has been about equipping Sweden and building a resilience to crises. Thanks to strong public finances with the lowest public debt since 1977, we now have the necessary muscles to protect jobs, businesses and welfare. Madam President, I would like The ongoing coronapendem test our society in every possible way. It tests our readiness, our economy and our welfare, but it also tests us – you and me – in our role as fellow human beings. I would therefore like to conclude my speech by sending a warm greeting to all those who are now in intensive care. I hope they recover and reunite with their loved ones. I would like to extend my warmest condolences to all those who have lost a loved one. I would also like to take this opportunity to send a warm greeting to all the people at the front of the line of defence – those who work and work very hard every day. I am, of course, talking about the fantastic staff in health care, in school and in care, as well as the transport workers, the shop assistants and the work mediators. I am talking about all those who make society work even in a tough time. The list of people to thank once this is over will be much longer than that, but I would like to state right now that I and many with me will be eternally grateful to you for your hard work, your skill and your conversion skills. Thank you for your work for your fellow humans! Thank you for your efforts for Sweden! I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-55	Madam President, I would like In a way, it is a bit reassuring to be in the middle of extraordinary pandemic times dealing with the ordinary handling of matters in the Riksdag. We are now discussing a report entitled Riksrevisionen's report on support for the start-up of business – long-term effects and Arbetsförmedlingen's way of working. The report submitted by the Government's letter contains a number of interesting observations on one of the tools in the Employment Service's toolbox, namely the possibility of assigning enrolment to programmes for the start-up of business – i.e. that they become entrepreneurs in some form. It is, of course, reasonable and good that this is a path that can be tested in the context of active labour market policies; it can lead to someone getting a push to realise their business idea and move from unemployment to employment. It also turns out in the figures presented here that looking at the transition to employment, it works okay or well. The new and interesting thing here, however, is that the Swedish National Audit Office has used a complementary method to, simplify, check whether the instructions also help individuals to get a reasonable and sustainable income over time. Then the picture is partly different: The review shows that the effect on revenue was actually negative for several years after participation in the programme. For women, it took about eight years before the effect was about zero. The review also shows that the impact is more negative for foreign born, which means that the risk of over-indebtedness increased for the participants in the programme. The risk of being long-term registered with the enforcement officer increased by about 60 percent. This is something that is not visible if you only look mechanically at the transition from someone registered with the Employment Service to the person is considered to be employed through entrepreneurship. It is worth noting that one thing was mentioned as something positive, even partly on the part of the National Audit Office. When considering the financial impact of the state, it is said that it is probably positive because there is a compensatory factor through reduced costs in the social security system. What it means in practice, however, is that many of the programme participants pay a fairly high price in terms of low income and personal insecurity. This is something that, together with much other knowledge available through quantitative and qualitative studies of e.g. immigrant entrepreneurship, should be able to reflect a little on. For quite a long time there has been a strong hello-and-hurrah attitude to self-employment – that it is the solution to virtually all problems in society, not least for immigrants. Sometimes you need to reflect on the fact that it's not that simple in reality. Moreover, this is probably much more than just an information issue, that is, it will go well only people get more info when they are going to do this. Instead, there are structural problems that could be considered – including having private consultants who are paid to assess business plans and who have a vested interest in making them appear possible, which is not always in line with reality. On the Left side, we believe that the Government takes note of the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has no concrete recommendations to the Government, and we are content with this approach. We are therefore not going to vote in favour of the motion by Mr M and Mr KD, but that does not mean that this is an issue that should be forgotten. The Swedish National Audit Office points out, among other things, that after a few years of decline this programme is again on the rise in volume and that several specific projects are underway to increase participation, especially among new arrivals. That is why this will be an issue that is important to follow up on from the government. After the report was written, we have had to agree that the unemployment rate in Sweden will increase rapidly due to the Corona crisis. What would have been good at that? Well, it would have been good to have a well-functioning, strong and learning authority that handled this – appropriately Arbetsförmedlingen. Instead, we find ourselves in a situation where it is complicated or possibly pointless to discuss details in the government's governance of Arbetsförmedlingen. For we are dealing with an authority that has been put into multidimensional chaos through many years of ideological experiments from the right, and unfortunately also through the policies that this government – driven by its cooperation parties, the Center and the Liberals, one of which does not participate in the debate – has conducted. That is what is truly regrettable about the situation. We can stand by and discuss reports, figures and strategies, but the fact is that the Public Employment Service is today an authority that is working hard. Although last year the Riksdag had to pull in and pull a couple of emergency brakes, which made the situation a little more manageable than if the January agreement had had had a full impact, it is still the case that offices have been closed and staff have been laid off. Concern and uncertainty marked the authority as we entered this extraordinary situation. Now the government and the cooperation parties are signaling very cleverly that the reform work will continue, as it is said. It is quite strong when the government at the same time says that all the focus should be on helping people out of the situation created by the crisis. These are irreconcilable things. That's where we're standing today anyway. We read in the newspaper that the IFAU, the SSR trade union and many others are very concerned about what happens when it is flagged for everything to go on as if nothing had happened. Anders Forslund at IFAU, one of the researchers in labour market policy, says that what is happening is a perfect storm and that it is very bad. The SSR calls it incomprehensible. But there we are today. It is difficult, not to say impossible, to expect the authority or government to be able to deal with problems that, for example, this report points to in a sensible way. That is why we are, unfortunately, going to have to return more times to these politically forced problems in the Employment Service, Madam President. If nothing else, the Left Party will ensure that we do so in the committee in question and in this House.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-66	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The pandemic affects not only our health care and our elderly and fragile, but our whole society, when the economy is affected. Today, most people know someone who has lost his job, been laid off or given notice, and many entrepreneurs see their life's work ruined. Over 100,000 people have been enrolled in the Public Employment Service since the outbreak of the virus. In addition to this, the whistles are rife, and many companies are using the possibilities for lay-off and short-term work that we have decided in this House. Sweden is in a situation worse than the 1990s crisis and worse than any of the crises that any of us in here has experienced during our lifetime. The matter we are debating today is a review from the Swedish National Audit Office of the Swedish Public Employment Service's programme to support the start-up of business activities. This is another in the series of reviews that show that there is an improvement potential in the efforts society makes for those people who also need the freedom that it means to have a job and a livelihood of their own. In order to equip all those jobseekers who were already in employment services before the pandemic, and those who now belong to them, the Public Employment Service needs to be equipped. In the January agreement, we have agreed to reform the Public Employment Service fundamentally. This important work must not stop in this situation – now more than ever it is needed, and it needs to be done with tact and feeling so that reform helps and does not spoil the greater commitment that the Public Employment Service now has on its table. Madam President, I would like For us Liberals, this is not about figures in the statistics, but about people who are worried about how they can pay their rent or their mortgage. These are children who no longer see their parents go to work every morning. It is about giving all those who are now looking for a new job confidence in the future, hope and ways to be better equipped on the day it turns and businesses start hiring again. At this time, everyone, both government and independent actors, needs to be helped to guide those who need support. It can be about inspiring the former receptionist at a hotel to jump on a YH education in a lack of employment or to enable students who have lost their summer jobs to contribute in the holiday schools that many primary schools will need to have to guarantee the students the knowledge to which they are entitled. It can also be about helping the shop assistant to find new ways, for example by the person contributing within the healthcare system. One way to make a living is to start a business of your own. As the report – and indeed the pandemic suites – show, this is not without risk. For this reason, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends, among other things, that the Swedish Public Employment Service inform you more clearly about, for example, the personal liability you have when starting an individual firm. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the support needs to be adapted, for example through shorter training efforts so that more people have access to them before starting their own company. These are wise and important recommendations that the Public Employment Service will work on and that will be followed up from outside. They will make the actions offered more effective and accurate. Madam President, I would like Losing one's job and livelihood is of course extremely difficult and stressful, but let's turn evil into something good and use the time until it turns – because it will turn – to support the receptionist, shop assistant and student who lost the summer job in finding new ways, further training or contributing in the sectors that now need staff. Why not use the time to think about starting your own business? It will benefit both the individual and society, and it will make both the individual and society better equipped for the future.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-76	Madam President, I would like Sweden's small businesses are absolutely essential for our country to function, but the fact that small businesses can be risky has been very evident in these days of pandemic and social exclusion. If the customers disappear, the revenue will also disappear. It takes time to build a company. It takes hard work, and the risk is that you don't get enough customers to walk around. At the same time, it is the new companies that, through the entrepreneur's knowledge of the reality they live in, drive society forward, take advantage of needs that no one else has taken advantage of and create jobs for others. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the support for start-up of business shows both that the support is more effective in obtaining employment than other contributions from the Swedish Public Employment Service and that it provides low income, which increases the risk of over-indebtedness. It is therefore the case that the aid has disadvantages, but at the same time it gives people a chance to influence their own situation. Unfortunately, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, it is difficult to evaluate the effects well enough, since the Swedish Public Employment Service's follow-up is different in different places in the country. The results also need to be monitored for a longer period of time – although the programme allows participants to become active quickly, they may find it difficult to make a living for a longer period of time. This, combined with the risks of setting up a business, can cause them to incur large debts. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office therefore recommends that participants receive better information about the risk of becoming indebted, and the Swedish Public Employment Service should consider offering a shorter adapted preparatory education to reach as many people as possible with information about the risks of indebtedness. Arbetsförmedlingen also needs to evaluate the programme systematically and in the same way in different parts of the country and for a long time. It is the country's employment services that need to improve their procedures and develop how they work with the support. It is therefore also reasonable for the recommendations to be addressed to the Employment Service, although it is of course ultimately the Government's responsibility to ensure that the authorities evaluate and develop labour market policies. The Government is constantly following up on the efficient use of the resources allocated to the Public Employment Service. The Public Employment Service is currently carrying out a major reorganisation while facing its biggest task in decades, namely to help anyone who needs a new job as a result of the Corona crisis. We do not know how extensive this task will be, but we are already seeing a dramatic increase in the number of notice and short-term lay-offs and in the number of people who have lost their jobs. In the situation that we are in now, it is crucial to give Arbetsförmedlingen the opportunity to improve their own routines and take on the great task that awaits them. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-84	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights deals with some 130 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. I would like to start by calling for approval of the Social Democrats' reservation No 30 on the identification of sexual offences. Violent crime and victim crime are areas that are subject to a great deal of involvement in the Riksdag and were also prioritised in the work of the Government. Men's violence against women is a serious and widespread social problem. Especially in these times, Madam President, it is important to be observant of women and children who may be vulnerable. These problems cause great physical and mental suffering. Since 1 January 2017, a comprehensive ten-year strategy has been in place for action against men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression as well as prostitution. The strategy shall contribute to the cessation of men's violence against women and to strengthening the right to physical integrity. Society and the judiciary look, and look, seriously at crimes against older people and people who find it difficult to defend themselves. The Police Authority is continuously working to develop the law enforcement work against the elderly and people with functional variations. Training activities for police officers have been carried out. In order to raise awareness among older people about how to detect and protect themselves from fraud crimes, cooperation has taken place between the police, senior organisations and Victim Support Finland in the project Don't try to fool me. The Ombudsman for Children is tasked by the Government to map existing knowledge about how and where children consume or are exposed to pornography and how it affects the health and relationships of children and young people. The Ombudsman for Children shall also take stock of methods and practices to strengthen and protect children and young people against the negative impact of and limit access to pornography. Madam President, I would like In order to strengthen protection against human trafficking and human exploitation, the Riksdag has decided on a new form of legislation. It contains, among other things, a clearer description of crime, a better protection of children, a tightening up of the scale of penalties and a new graduated crime, called human exploitation. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Agency for Gender Equality to strengthen the work against prostitution and human trafficking with children, young people and adults in Sweden and to map the extent of prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes. An investigation is currently working on reviewing the criminal responsibility for honor-related violence and repression. The investigation will consider which changes to the legislation regarding a restraining order should be implemented in response to two announcements from the Riksdag. The study will present its results at the beginning of the autumn. Madam President, I would like As regards compensation to victims of crime, the Government has established the investigation Strengthened the right to compensation for victims of crime. In particular, the Committee Directive gives a mandate to assess the extent to which the levels of compensation for infringements should be increased. As part of the government's efforts to strengthen victims and their position, the Victims' Agency is also tasked with facilitating victims' access to information and support. We Social Democrats support the announcement to develop a national plan for the development of children's houses in Sweden. It is a collaboration between authorities with a clear children's perspective that has the task of supporting children and young people who have witnessed or been victims of crime. In this context, with regard to child care, it is important to emphasise the necessary cooperation between authorities and between municipalities and regions. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight the issue of the mapping of sexual crimes. Brå has been tasked with highlighting the reasons for the increases in reported and self-reported sex offences. For the current year, Brå also has the task of analysing the application of the rape crime following the legislative changes that were made on 1 July 2018 and of monitoring whether the intention of the legislation has been realised. Against this background, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 30 in the report.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-96	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the report on Violent crime and victims of crime, which contains a series of requests from the general period of exercise. In the report, the committee addresses three announcements to the government. These announcements are that the judiciary should take a particularly serious view of crimes against the elderly and other particularly vulnerable groups, that a national action plan for the activities of children's houses is needed to improve the equivalence and availability of interventions for all children, regardless of where they live, and that a broad mapping of sexual offences should be carried out. Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say a few words about crimes against the elderly. There are criminal and organised gangs specifically targeting crimes against the elderly. For example, for the purpose of robbing older people in their homes, false doctors who have fooled older ones with offers of new medicines and perpetrators dressed as craftsmen, have resorted to such crime. The Crime Prevention Council points out in a report that older people are a particularly vulnerable group to certain types of fraud. This applies primarily to certain invoice and card frauds. Common to all crimes committed against the elderly is that criminals exploit people who typically find it harder to defend themselves. This type of crime risks spreading insecurity and fear, causing many older people to actually shy away from going outside the home. In order to increase the security of older people and combat this type of crime, a number of actions are needed, and the judiciary must take a particularly serious view of crimes against older people and others who may find it more difficult to fight crime. That the majority in the Parliamentary Committee on Justice supported this report is a good thing. Madam President, I would like It is also a good thing that the Riksdag is sending an announcement to the Government that a national action plan is needed for the activities of children's houses. Today there are children's houses in some thirty places in the country. There police, social services, health care and healthcare work together with several actors to help children who have been victims of crime. We must do everything in our power to protect our children. Children who are victims of crime can have their entire lives ruined. Children are also often experts at telling themselves that everything that happens to them and everything that happens in their vicinity is somehow their own fault. Children who are victims of crime are therefore grappling not only with the memories and injuries of the crime itself but also often with feelings of shame and guilt. Children who have been victims of crime must receive strong support. No child who has been subjected to a crime should have to be passed around between different authorities, and no child should have to repeat his or her history for several different people. It should not matter where in Sweden a child who has been subjected to crime lives. It is of the utmost importance that all children who need access to the activities of children's houses receive it and that the efforts are of equal quality throughout the country. That the Riksdag now announces to the government that a national action plan for children's houses is needed is good, but more needs to be done to protect our children. Today's confidentiality legislation sometimes makes it difficult for the authorities that cooperate in children's houses to share information with each other. The rules of confidentiality need to be changed – in part to protect children who have been victims of crime, as in the case of children's houses, but in other cases to prevent a young person from getting involved in crime. To remedy this, the government urgently needs to launch a review of the confidentiality legislation to ensure that authorities can cooperate fully. Madam President, I would like As I said, this is a motion for a resolution and there are a number of different motions. There is not enough time to go into all areas or all the reservations of the Moderates. Of course, the Moderates support all their reservations, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation No. 3 on the non-disclosure rule in the Publicity and Confidentiality Act.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-108	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report by the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs on violent crime and victims of crime. The Swedish Democrats support all their reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 4. Instead of protecting victims, Sweden has for a long time put in a system to feel sorry for criminals. Crime is explained in terms of poverty and exclusion. In many cases, the criminal justice system is characterised by too low penalties, penalties and parole. The sole purpose of criminal law is considered rehabilitation rather than also taking into account the victim's right of redress. Even if prosecutors insist on expulsion, convicted offenders often escape expulsion on grounds of connection with Sweden or for humanitarian reasons. Swedish criminal law is increasingly leaning towards the fact that it is only the criminal who is to be protected and not the victim of crime. A decent society, which puts the victim first, must not allow this to happen. Unfortunately, however, that is exactly what is happening in Sweden today. Anyone who accepts this not only betrays the victim and its relatives; it also betrays all those people who are at risk of becoming the next victim. The fact that victims in the streets and squares are in danger of facing the hit and fired shortly after the act of violence has been committed is unacceptable. Not to stand on the victim's side is to put the concern for criminals above what is at the heart of the concept of justice, that is, the victim's perspective. Madam President, I would like One of the main sources of income for international crime is trafficking in human beings. Every year thousands of children, women and men are kidnapped or deceived into various forms of modern slavery, lured with money and promises of a better future. Many believe that they have come to a better part of the world with opportunities for work and care and to be part of a functioning society. Instead of a bright future, however, they are faced with organized crime, which treats people as a commodity. Prostitution, brothel business, organ sales, slave labor and crime become their lives. Organised crime exists in each country, and the problem is also great within the EU. Those who carry on this activity are becoming more skilled and experienced, and the phenomenon seems to be becoming more common. A major problem for the Swedish judiciary is that it is difficult to have traffickers convicted and even more difficult to have them convicted with severe penalties. A series of measures, such as the functioning of border controls, modern tools for the police to prosecute crime and the use of secret coercive measures, are needed to address these problems. We also see that the penalties for these acts do not take into account the seriousness of the crime. The punishment for trafficking in human beings therefore needs to be tightened up. Those who are victims of such crime should receive the redress their vulnerability deserves. Madam President, I would like Trafficking in human beings can come in different forms. We have the organised human trafficking where people are sold to make money for others. Then we have another type of human trafficking where a number of convicted, violent men in Sweden have put in a system to bring women from Thailand and other countries here to abuse, rape and throw them out just before they were granted a residence permit and then bring a new woman here and do the same again. This would not have been possible if the Swedish Parliament had listened to the Swedish Democrats, who since 2010 is the only party that has been exercising that the law should be amended so that those who have been convicted of violence, threats or other abuse against a partner should not have the right to bring family immigrants from third countries here. Madam President, I would like There are several important measures that need to be taken with a view to both protecting and redressing victims. One of them is to tighten the penalties for non-compliance with a restraining order. The penalty for breaching a normal level of contact ban is a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of one year. For the ban to produce results, it requires that the punishment be so severe that few want to risk violating it. It also needs to be easier for women to get a restraining order. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the penalty for violation to be tightened up by putting the minimum penalty in prison, as suggested by the investigation Violence in close relationships. Discharge in small cases of infringement has at times proved problematic. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that it is reasonable to follow the investigation's proposal on this point too, so that the infringer of a ban on contact with small cases is fined. For those convicted of a violent or sexual crime against a loved one, current and proposed legislation does not provide for the possibility of imposing a prohibition of contact with electronic surveillance at the time of release, even if the threat is high. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that additional legislation is needed to make this possible in order to ensure that the victim of a crime can feel safe. The victim of a crime must always be able to count on strong support, whether he receives a proportionate penalty for the harm he has done to the victim or for a reasonable compensation for crime. The violation suffered by the victim after having been subjected to crime should be upgraded in order to be more consistent with the ethical and social values that prevail today. We therefore want to double the level of the compensation to which victims of sexual offences, among other things, may be entitled. Moreover, such a change would make it more clear that the victim's victim's right to his or her person and integrity is being violated. This is basically about the view of morality and justice. We must dare to stand up for those who do not have the strength or the courage to speak for themselves. That's what a human criminal policy really looks like.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-125	Madam President, I would like Sometimes the debate on the rule of law, democracy and human rights becomes somewhat academic. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to grow up in democracy, in peace, in freedom and where human rights have been respected may find it difficult to imagine the alternative. But there are alternatives. For years, V i has seen a worrying trend in many parts of the world, where Europe is no exception. In the surges of the Corona crisis, this has worsened considerably. Step by step, the rule of law is being called into question, democracy is being curtailed and human rights are being eroded – not infrequently on the grounds of protecting people's security. Nothing could be more false. Anyone who openly or hiddenly pushes to dismantle the rule of law does so for one reason only: to strengthen their own power. In the remarkable time we live in, until recently at the peak of material prosperity, there is still a breeding ground for populist movements that draw their energy from conscious misunderstandings, exaggerations and pure lies – about social development, about minorities, about everything that can frighten the one who can be intimidated with. But that discussion, which can feel academic and abstract to many, becomes for some acute practical and concrete. The most fundamental element of the rule of law is that violence is regulated and monopolised, that it is only through democratic control, with clear rules for when and how the monopoly of violence can use its power against an individual, and in well-defined emergency situations, violence can be a means. Any other violence is unacceptable and should lead to consequences. The rule of law, which is unable to protect its citizens from violence, loses its primary function. A state where the right of the strong prevails and where violence and threats of violence become a means of power is not a rule of law. Madam President, I would like This report has a key theme in terms of what we have created a majority for: a particular focus on the one that is particularly vulnerable. One announcement is about old and other vulnerable people and another is about how we best give children the best possible support through the function of children's houses and how it is secured throughout the country. My moderate colleague, Magdalena Schröder, has given an excellent description of how important this is, so I will not speak about it any more. There are a few more thoughts from the Center Party and others that deserve attention and that we should work on. Among other things, it is about how we make it easier for victims to better understand the legal process, and how, for example, relatives of victims of violence can receive support if and when the convicted perpetrator is released or granted leave. This is something that both the Center Party and the Moderates have proposed. The Center Party wants to go further and introduce a provision in the Compensation Act that reinforces family members' right to compensation. Linked to it is also the police's feedback for the victim. This is where the justice system needs to be improved. Everyone who is victims of crime should feel seen by the judiciary and be informed about what support is available and how a process is done. With that, I would like to endorse reservation 18 on the police's feedback.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-135	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 16, but of course we in the Left Party support all our reservations. Violence and abuse must always be combated regardless of who is the perpetrator, regardless of who is the victim and regardless of the underlying motives. It is a human right not to be subjected to violence and abuse and to receive protection and support if that happens. It is about our security and security – about security for us to be able to live our lives in freedom, about security in the home and security outdoors and about the security of knowing that society always stands up to all crime and is always there with help and support when we need it most. Today is not always the case. There is no authority that has overall responsibility in all aspects of crime victims. Far too often people fall between the chairs and do not get the help and support to which they are entitled. Madam President, I would like For a long time, victims' rights have been strengthened in Sweden. But there are still shortcomings. The Left Party believes that the shortcomings that exist need more attention and attention to be paid to them in order to meet the protection and support needs that victims can have. In addition to some legislative changes, we believe that training efforts are a key to achieving a strong and well-functioning protection of victims in Sweden in practice. The time taken for victims and their relatives to get in touch with different support measures varies and varies considerably across the country. It is serious that, following the reorganisation of the police, the number of victims supported by victim support centres has fallen sharply. Police agencies often function well, but in order for all victims of crime to have equal opportunities for support wherever they live, this work needs to be improved. Madam President, I would like The EU Victims Directive came into force in 2012 and aims to ensure that all victims are properly informed, supported and protected and that they can participate in the criminal justice process. We in the Left Party were largely in favour of the changes that took place when this was introduced, but we believe that the changes do not correspond to what is needed to ensure that victims really get the support and help they need. It is not good enough just to live up to the minimum level of the directive. Madam President, I would like Several of the articles of the Directive are formulated from a rights perspective. We believe that there needs to be a corresponding wording in Swedish law. We want to ensure that victims of crime as well as those involved in the judiciary are aware of these rights and that victims of crime are able to assert their rights. Today, for example, there is nowhere in the legislation that police, prosecutors and courts must adapt their activities and take account of people with disabilities. The Left Party believes that Sweden should not be content with living up to the minimum levels that exist, but that we need to have a much higher ambition and do more to ensure the rights of all victims. Madam President, I would like Some of our proposals are as follows. Firstly, the rights of children as victims of crime need to be ensured. We believe that the Police Authority needs to be given the task of developing specific procedures to meet the needs and rights of violent children and children who experience violence. Secondly, we believe that the portal provision of the EU directive, Article 3 on the right to understand and be understood, needs to be explicitly laid down in Swedish law. Thirdly, it needs to be ensured that employees who come into contact with victims of crime have the right training and conditions to provide support and information to victims. We therefore believe that a holistic approach needs to be taken to the implementation of the Victims' Directive. Sweden's victims deserve more than a minimum level.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-148	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemy is the greatest crisis in modern times. Many people have been hit very hard. Many have died, and others have floated or hovered between life and death and in uncertainty. People in care are on their knees. Much of life has stopped. Entrepreneurs' life's work is in danger of being lost. Many also risk losing their job. Many Swedes exercise caution, follow government recommendations and stay at home. But not everyone – crime has not taken a break. The police have warned that fraud is at risk of increasing in the crisis and that fraudsters cynically use the Corona crisis to deceive and deceive our elderly. It's nothing but disgusting. I read that a woman in her 80s was called by a person who claimed to be calling from the Public Health Agency. The scammer said the woman was suspected of being infected by the virus, and by logging in with her bank ID, the woman would get a free test. She didn't get a free test. She was set up at $100,000. Decepticons have knocked and offered to help and shop for older people to access their cards and codes. Texts have been sent around where they have claimed that they are doing a collection for corona research at Karolinska Institutet. These are all examples of abominable crime that the whole of the judiciary must take particularly seriously. This is precisely one of the announcements by the Committee on Justice, Madam President, and it is urgent. Unfortunately, the increase in this crime is not surprising. The number of frauds has more than doubled in ten years. Today, more than 100 000 more frauds take place than ten years ago, and only 5% are cleared up. It is in principle safe to commit fraud in Sweden today. The Christian Democrats want to change that. Madam President, I would like There are two further announcements in the report. A national plan for the activities of children's houses shall be drawn up to improve the equivalence and availability of interventions for all children wherever they live. Children who have been abused should not be passed around between several different authorities and should not have to repeat their history to several different people. Barnabas is a good example of a safe and child-friendly environment where children suspected of being abused are at the heart of the entire investigation process. It is essential that all children in need have access to this activity and that the actions are of equal quality and are equivalent throughout the country. We are also of the opinion that confidentiality legislation needs to be reviewed as it is interpreted differently in different parts of the country. However, V i think it is very positive that a unanimous Committee on Justice believes that the government should develop a national plan for the activities of children's houses in order to improve equivalence and access to services for all children. I would also like to call for the approval of reservation 26, which is precisely about reviewing the confidentiality legislation. Legislation must not be an obstacle to the work of children suspected of being abused. Furthermore, I would also like to comment on the third announcement, which deals with the mapping of sexual crimes. People who say that they have been victims of sexual offences have increased significantly in recent years, and therefore there is a great reason to do a broad mapping of sexual offences. It shall cover the nature of crime, where and in what context the crime is committed, who commits the crime and who is the victim of the crime. The type of wide-ranging survey that the committee wants to see should be the basis for legislative changes as well as for the design of information and other measures aimed at preventing crime. There are a number of reservations in the report, which the KD naturally supports. However, in order to save time at voting time, I am today only in favour of the announcements and reservation 26.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-161	Madam President, I would like The whole idea of the justice system is that we should not have any victims. The idea is that we should try in different ways to increase security and reduce crime. In many other debates, we are dedicated to making this more efficient and better. Now we are talking about what we are going to do when it has happened, when a person has still suffered from crime. It is usually an individual who has committed a criminal act. The state has then failed to prevent this and may not have ensured that the person has been adequately assisted, if the person is punished earlier and so on. But now it's about the victims. Madam President, I would like I am focusing on the situation we have in Sweden today, as we see in the time of the Corona infection how violence is increasing, not least against women who live in relationships. Liberals are very pleased that, together with the other parties in January, we can add 100 million extra. It's important. We also see how vulnerability to young people is increasing at this time, not least online. We hope that today we will be able to present how this support will be allocated to the important civil society organisations. The picture from Roks and Unizon as well as Bris is clear: D is needed, and crime exposure is increasing. The money's on its way. It is important to reduce the suffering of victims when something has happened. Much of what the report deals with is that the work should be more efficient, that the response should be better, that the information should be better and that you should get sensible compensation if you have still been subjected to crime. It feels like the focus of all parties is quite unanimous. We do not very much disagree that victims of crime should receive good support. However, the Liberals have a number of reservations. We would like to highlight what some previous speaker has been talking about: the situation of our elderly. In the time of the Corona infection, people are even more exposed to fraud. It is about people who may otherwise be insecure and also very afraid. The cynical people involved in this need to be treated with greater clarity from the rule of law in order to protect not least older victims. When it comes to vulnerable children, whom I have been dealing with, there is a lot to do. Liberals are pleased to have been involved in pushing forward the effort to improve the police's education and to face sexual crimes against children, both in reality and online, where it is increasing in a catastrophic way. People abuse children via digital media, which are very vulnerable and often very vulnerable. The work in progress on both trafficking in human beings and violence against women is important. We are pleased to have been involved in sharpening the investigation that is working to sharpen the tools to help people who are exposed to honor-related violence and oppression. There is also the issue of a restraining order. Electronic monitoring needs to be used more frequently. We need to be able to extend the scope of the ban on the practice of harassing women, who are the most frequently exposed. The reprisals of this violation must also be made clearer. It is about people who find it very difficult to understand simple messages. We look forward to tightening things up. Madam President, I would like We support the announcements. Liberals claim for time winning consent only to reservation 3 on confidentiality. It's a broad reservation. You have to look at this. For us liberals, it is important that there should be the possibility for healthcare or social services to share information with the police. It should not be mandatory– it may be inappropriate for various reasons– because then vulnerable people may not be able to come to social services or health care. The 2018 investigation looked at how to reduce relapses in people who engage in beating others. In fact, the focus was particularly on men who repeatedly abuse women. There is a proposal to change the confidentiality rules in order to increase efficiency, protect more and ensure that men cease violent and criminal behaviour. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-172	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Justice Committee's report 29 on violent crimes and victims of crime. To expose someone to violence is one of the worst restrictions on freedom that can be made against another person. We politicians and members of the Committee on Justice have a duty to do what we can to minimise the violence against people in the country and to ensure that those who are still exposed to violence or threats of violence receive the full support of society. Last summer, two unimaginably brutal murders took place in the days following each other. They got a lot of attention with all due respect. Those who were murdered were a woman in Malmö who carried her two-month-old baby in her arms and a woman just outside Stockholm. The political consequence resulted after a few weeks in the government's 34-point programme. This includes both preventive work with schools, social services and more, as well as a stronger judiciary with more tools for the police, more sanctions and not least measures to strengthen witnesses and break the culture of silence. Several of the measures have been initiated in the Riksdag. Others have been set up for investigations, which are needed to make them a reality. The fact that more weapons crimes are classified as serious is one thing that remains, although a great deal has been done in the past with arms legislation. It's important. Illegal weapons are one of society's major problems. Madam President, I would like Another deeply serious and major social problem is men's violence against women. It is about violence in the form of violence but also about sexual and psychological violence. The police authority has been ordered to give priority to the issue of men's violence against women. Women who are victims should also receive support, and the men who are violent should be judged. We cannot be content with every woman, young and old, having to be afraid to go out at night or to be at home with her partner. Madam President, I would like Crimes committed against the elderly have been highlighted by several debaters here. It is also a crime which it is of the utmost importance to combat. It is deeply upsetting to read about the fraud that is being committed, not least during this period of the pandemic. I am pleased that many also highlight and have a commitment to children's houses. This is an issue that has been pushed not least by Minister Åsa Lindhagen, in her role as Minister of State but also in her former role as Socialborgerrådet in Stockholm. Madam President, I would like The Crime Prevention Council was commissioned in 2018 to highlight the reasons for the increase in reported and self-reported sex offences since 2005. The assignment was presented in May 2019. The Crime Prevention Council has also been tasked with monitoring and analysing the law application of the rape crime following the legislative changes introduced on 1 July 2018. This is an assignment to be reported by 15 June 2020, in a few months' time. We therefore believe that there is no reason to make a statement on this. In a moment, we will move on to another debate on compensation for crime, another important issue which also involves victims of violence. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse Amendment No 30.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-183	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the report No basic deduction for the determination of crime's compensation for damages. The proposal abolishes the so-called "basic deduction" in determining the amount of compensation for damages, i.e. the state compensation provided for in the Criminal Damages Act, which victims can apply for when they want compensation for damage caused by crime. In most cases, the Victims' Agency currently makes a basic deduction of SEK 1 500 from the compensation paid to victims of crime. The basic deduction is equivalent to the deductible of insurance companies. The purpose of the amendment to abolish the basic deduction is to make the compensation system more manageable and understandable for victims of crime. The Moderates share the view that the system needs to be changed, but much more needs to be done to strengthen the victim's position. Those who have been victims of crime must be able to count on strong support from society. Behind every police report is someone who has been subjected to violence, threats or violation. Someone may have suffered physical as well as mental injuries that often take a long time to process and recover from. Others suffer from practical or economic problems. Madam President, I would like The prevention of crime is, of course, of great importance. However, where crime cannot be prevented, society's resources must focus on reducing the harm caused by crime and helping the victims. Financial compensation is an important part of this work. Therefore, if we are to strengthen the victim perspective, it is important that the systems for compensation and compensation for crime are working well. The proposal we are now debating is aimed at simplifying the handling of the compensation for crime. It is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. Under today's system, the person who committed a crime is required to compensate the victim for the damage he or she has caused. Secondly, the victim may receive compensation from his insurance company. Ultimately, the victim may be entitled to state compensation, so-called criminal compensation from the Victims' Agency. Madam President, I would like Today's system means that the victim sometimes needs to contact the person liable for damages himself in order to obtain their compensation. It can, of course, be associated with a great deal of discomfort. The Moderates therefore want to investigate a system in which a compensation amount determined by the court is paid directly by the Victims' Agency, without the victim having to act against an offender himself. This would facilitate the payment of compensation to which a victim is entitled, thereby reducing the victim's suffering. This would be an important step in strengthening the victim perspective. I would like to express my support for reservation No 1.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-189	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs on compensation for crime. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. A person who has been subjected to a crime and is thereby injured may claim compensation from the offender. In cases where an offender does not have the means to pay the compensation himself, the Victims' Agency may pay a compensation for crime. The rules for the payment of such compensation are laid down in the Criminal Damages Act. It is now regulated that a basic deduction of SEK 1 500 is deducted before the compensation is paid. It is good that the government is now proposing, through this bill, that the basic deduction be completely removed and that the compensation be paid to the victim as a whole. We therefore support the proposal to amend the Criminal Damage Act. Madam President, I would like In addition to the amount of damages, there is yet another problem that is likely to offend the victim. Once damages are established and the judgment has gained legal force, the offender rarely has funds or is rarely willing to pay the damages. The victim must then himself, with the help of the royal court, demand the offender on the amount. If this does not work, the next step is to contact your insurance company to see if the insurances there cover the damages. If this does not produce any results, the victim may contact the Victims' Office himself in order to apply in writing for compensation for crime. This system is very time-consuming and results in the perpetrator escaping payment and the victim being violated again. This also goes just the opposite of what general legal awareness considers to be a good system for the payment of damages. Therefore, in order to prevent, for example, vulnerable women themselves being forced to recover debts from perpetrators of violence against women, we believe that a state compensation guarantee should be introduced. First of all, it would mean that the State would go in and pay the victim the damages imposed by the court. In this way, the victim would receive his or her rightful compensation directly and be able to move on more quickly in life. Secondly, the State would take over the responsibility and actively recover the blame from the offender so that, in the end, it would always be guaranteed that the perpetrators would never, in practice, escape their liability.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-195	Madam President, I would like Member Magdalena Schröder well explained the content of the Government's proposal. The Left Party supports the abolition of the basic deduction. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. If a convicted person cannot pay compensation to a victim, the victim may in some cases receive compensation from the State, so-called criminal compensation. In order to receive this compensation, the crime must be reported to the police. The Left Party believes that it is important that the design of the crime compensation system does not make it difficult for victims of crime to obtain compensation. Today, many victims feel that the possibility of obtaining compensation for crime is cumbersome. The Left Party therefore believes that there is reason to review this system, and we believe that the government should investigate how the system of payment of crime compensation can become simpler and less bureaucratic. One model that we think could be investigated is the one that exists in Norway. The model means that an application for damages is sent directly to the Norwegian equivalent to the Swedish Crime Victims Agency. The authority then makes an assessment of whether a crime has occurred and, if so, makes a payment directly to the victim. The crime victim authority, that is, the state, then collects the compensation from the perpetrator. This model would mean that victims would receive compensation more quickly than the current system.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-200	Madam President, I would like Many victims of crime are forced to live long with the consequences of this. When the bruises have disappeared or when the money has returned to the bank, the memory remains – the memory of not being safe on the way home or being safe in your own home. Guilt is not uncommon among victims of crime. Why didn't I take a cab instead? Why did I show you that expensive jacket? Why didn't I think about it? It can be very difficult or even impossible to shake off these feelings. Unfortunately, many victims are also reminded of what they were exposed to for a long time afterwards. It is the victim's own responsibility to claim damages from the offender in certain cases. Many of the perpetrators cannot or refuse to pay the damages they owe. The victim must then act on his own and, for example, request a foreclosure. It can go on for years and put a load on it. The Christian Democrats want damages to be paid automatically and the state then collects the amount from the offender. We support the proposal in the bill. The purpose of the Government's proposal to abolish the basic deduction in determining the amount of compensation for crime is to make the compensation system more manageable and understandable for the victim. It is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. More measures need to be put in place to strengthen the victim perspective in the Swedish judicial system. Greater focus should be placed on the victim and greater account taken of the suffering suffered by the victim. Those who have been victims of crime should always be able to count on strong support. Magdalena Schröder from the Moderates has well described the system that we have today, which can mean that the victim himself is forced to collect the money. It is quite unreasonable that the victim may be forced to devote both time and energy to gaining his obvious right. Instead, as I said, the State should pay the compensation directly and then recover it. The state is stronger than the victim of the crime and should take that responsibility, we believe Christian Democrats. It would make it easier to pay and reduce the victim's suffering somewhat tremendously. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-204	Madam President, I would like It is good that we remove the basic deduction, so that the entire compensation is paid in case the offender, the person liable for damages, does not pay himself. That there should be no basic deduction is excellent. But we are also fundamentally concerned with a recurring issue that the committee has been doing for a very long time, namely who is going to pay a victim. At the end of the trial, the court may order damages. When these SEK 1 000 or SEK 10 000 are to be paid out, the victim is obliged to contact the offender and ensure that he receives account details. This has improved somewhat; they can of course be conveyed. But basically, the responsibility lies with the victim to nag the person who refuses to pay. That's completely unreasonable. When this was last investigated, it was clear in the investigation that the absolutely simplest and most victim-friendly would be that the state pays the damages and then demands this from the offender, the person liable for damages. This shouldn't be very difficult. However, the investigator pointed out that it was difficult to propose such an amendment within the scope of the directive, as it stood at the time. It was also pointed out in the investigation that there is assault protection in our home insurance policies. Well, it's a little sad that it's needed at all. The fact that you have home insurance if you lose your bag on the trip or get a water injury is one thing. But having home insurance if you're attacked when you go out to town shows you another and more fundamental problem in our society. That you risk being attacked when you go out on the town and that you can insure yourself for this is completely unreasonable. Liberals are clear. Make sure we investigate this! There may be a majority in committee, I think. Here I hope that we can move forward in the years to come. This would be an important reform for the victims of crime. The suffering would end in a final judgment as to the relationship with the offender. Then you can move on and not go on about the damages. This can't be very difficult. Forward! Make sure we set up a new investigation! I support Amendment No 4 tabled by the Liberals, Madam President.
i-NbXdXDqvgLjRzsTUwuzUb5	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the Government's proposal for the abolition of the basic deduction for the determination of the compensation for crime and the rejection of the motions in connection with the report. A person who has suffered an injury as a result of a crime may be compensated by the State through so-called criminal damages compensation according to the rules of the Criminal Damage Act. Following a broad review, a new Criminal Damage Act entered into force on 1 July 2014; several changes aimed at strengthening victims' right to compensation for crime. Current legislation requires a basic deduction to be made in determining remuneration. At present it is $1,500. Compensation cases are examined by the Victims' Agency. When compensation has been paid, the State takes the place of the victim and may recover the amount paid from the person who caused the damage. Madam President, I would like Despite today's provisions on basic deductions, exceptions to the rule are currently made in certain situations. This applies, for example, to children who have witnessed a crime or if there are other specific reasons. These exceptions pose a problem of demarcation and are not always easy to make. There are therefore good reasons for no longer making this distinction between victims. According to the government, there are good reasons to abolish the basic deduction rule. This is what Parliament now has to take a position on. If the basic deduction is abolished, it is ensured that all beneficiaries of the compensation are always compensated for the part of the damage corresponding to the basic deduction. The proposal provides for improved possibilities for victims of crime to be compensated for damages related to crime. The system is also more manageable and easily understood by victims. In addition, the abolition of the basic deduction helps to improve the impact of the victims of terrorism provisions in Sweden.
i-HEMQPdFiY2QLXGDyjJ9Pz2	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Justice Committee's report No 41, no basic deduction for determining the compensation for crime. The victim of a serious crime should, of course, receive compensation and redress in all possible ways. But one should have respect for the fact that a complete restoration is rarely possible. If you get damage to your body that doesn't heal completely, financial compensation is the way we do it. Of course, it is not compensation that weighs up the damage. The level of damages should reflect the seriousness, but if the damage is serious, it is impossible to weigh it up. Nevertheless, it is important that compensation for crime is provided and that it is done in as simple a way as possible. The rules for this were changed in 2014. They looked over the system and discussed the issue of the state giving compensation for crime damages either directly when the crime had been committed or when a conviction had gained legal force. Both of these alternatives were seen to have disadvantages. The first was the fear that the victim would not participate as much in the clearance process, the second that the long-term consequence would be that this was based on insurance that would then not cover it. Madam President, I would like The bill means that the basic deduction of SEK 1 500 that currently exists and that too often is not paid to the victim disappears. This means that victims who receive compensation will receive the full amount without deduction. That's a good change. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and the proposal.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-215	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that the Parliament's working methods in Coronatids mean that as few people as possible should travel to and from Stockholm. This means that we have a staffing in Stockholm that is allowed to take care of what our Members around the country usually take care of. That is why, unfortunately, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt himself cannot take this debate today, although she would certainly very much have liked to have done so. I therefore come to the best of my ability to express our position on these issues, even if it is not my responsibility. Madam President, I would like In order not to miss it, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 4 in the Social Affairs Committee's report 8, but we naturally support all our reservations. Madam President, I would like Even before the Corona crisis, the disabled were a group that was particularly vulnerable. It is a group that has been close to the heart of us Swedish democrats and that we have always been very much in favour of. Even now in times of crisis, we are particularly concerned about this group. Unfortunately, it seems to be even more forgotten in these times. In any case, little is heard about the way in which thoughts go about reducing the spread of infection and increasing the safety of that group. Here, of course, we hope for a rapid change so that everyone can feel as safe as possible. All people should be given the opportunity to function on equal terms in Swedish society. The State, the regions and the municipality have a common responsibility to offer methods and solutions that make disabilities possible to overcome wherever in the country they live. For the Swedish Democrats it is important that it is the need that governs and not the place of residence. Madam President, I would like The Law on Support and Service, LSS, is a law of rights and has become a reform of freedom that improves the quality of life of many people with different disabilities. It must continue to do so, and for us it is important that the original intentions of the law are maintained and not secretly dismantled or eroded. Let's talk about needs. Persons with disabilities should have access to various forms of community services that provide necessary support to prevent exclusion and isolation from society. It is stated in the UN Convention on the Human Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is currently being denied more and more people with disabilities the right to support because of the rules and guidelines that have now become practice. We believe that people in need of assistance should receive it, and people's circles should therefore be based on needs and not diagnoses. What is good living conditions is individual, and efforts should not be standardised in the way that is happening today. Another example when it comes to needs: When assisted persons are cared for in hospitals, the general rule is that they cannot receive assistance compensation, according to the Social Insurance Agency's guidance. However, hospital staff often have far too many patients and too much to do. It is not always the case that they have time to help with, for example, meals, toilet visits, transfers or otherwise time-consuming needs that may exist. The need that actually exists will be difficult to meet. In the case of dependent children who are admitted to hospital, the same applies. As a rule, they do not receive assistance compensation and will then be without their assistants. Here, parental responsibility is often referred to. Children need the support, care, comfort, and love of their parents even during a hospital stay. Rather, getting rid of their assistant means that the parents have to take on more caring responsibilities rather than being at hand in their ordinary parenting role. Therefore, a revision of the hospital assistance system is urgently needed. It is important that the person entitled to assistance should be able to provide assistance during hospitalisation if necessary and be reimbursed for this by the Social Insurance Agency. As far as parental responsibility is concerned, we do not deny that such a thing exists, of course. But we wonder how far it goes and what is included. This also needs to be clarified throughout the regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like We believe that equivalence is extremely important. Unfortunately, when it comes to disability policy, that is not what it looks like today. That is something that needs to be addressed. As I have said before, it is not acceptable that the place of residence should play too much of a role in terms of the help and compensation you receive. As an example, I can take escort service. In some municipalities, management services are provided only in their own municipality or in nearby municipalities. In some municipalities, persons with a disability may themselves bear additional costs in connection with the accompanying service, while others may grant such compensation. It is not equal and therefore not acceptable. Another example of non-equivalence is day-to-day activity. Here, disabled people receive different salary, i.e. habilitation compensation, not only depending on where they live in the country but also in the same workplace depending on whether they participate through the Social Services Act or through the Support and Service Act. That's not how we want it to look. We can't have that. The target group for the Government's investment in habilitation compensation should be extended to include persons participating in the activities via the Social Services Act. Madam President, I would like Common spaces in LSS housing are important for the residents and are intended for socializing in order to break isolation. It is today very high rents for newly produced apartments according to LSS. That disabled people with often low incomes should have to pay extra for common spaces, both we and, among other things, the National Federation of FUB are mistaken. The common space in group housing and service housing should be free of charge for the individual and be seen as part of the care, we believe. We therefore welcome the fact that an investigation by the government is on the way. In this area too, we want to seek equivalence. There must be clearer regulations on the basis of which leasing can take place in the various municipalities. As I mentioned earlier, LSS is a law of rights. These people will be entitled to support wherever they live. But today you have to apply for a previously granted grant if you move to another municipality. We believe that it is unreasonable and administratively unnecessary for all parties to apply for aid when changing municipalities. This must, of course, be reviewed and improved, because the need for the aid granted does not disappear because of the relocation. There is a lot going on in this area at the moment. Some hope we never come up as sharp proposals while we hope that other things will come for decisions as soon as possible. At the same time, Madam President, the basis for any proposals and improvements in assistance depends on the existence of assistance providers and assistants. It is therefore essential to ensure that assistance providers are also able to operate. According to a membership survey of the Employers' Association KFO, almost half of the members of the association in the contract area respond to personal assistance that they are only able to operate for a maximum of two years with the current rate of hourly compensation. An annual increase in the standard rate of hourly pay corresponding to wage developments is therefore justified and should be a high priority, otherwise any other possible improvement risks remaining flat. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to say that there are proposals in this report that are more or less identical to each other. Then we support both our own and others, regardless of which party it comes from. For us it is a clear signal, not only out to the funkis movement but also to the government. In the long run, it does not stand to feel the same in debate after debate in the city, and then not be able to come together and agree in decision-making. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the opposition parties to make an analysis of common goals and proposals to present them together with strength. It's only together we can make a change. To think each one in his own way does not lead to change for those who most need it. We in the Swedish Democrats protect Sweden's population. We want to do everything in our power to provide security for those who are particularly vulnerable and to save as many lives as possible during this crisis. Crisises must not affect how we take care of the groups in society that are most vulnerable and in greatest need of help. We must stand firm for those who need it even when the crisis is here. Be careful, and wash your hands!
i-59de12953dc67ddf-240	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating support for people with disabilities. It spans a wide area and includes, among other things, LSS, management service and accessibility customization. All support is important in itself to make everyday life work for many people. However, the issue is not only about individual support; it is also about accessibility and participation in society. The support itself leads to greater participation and accessibility. I am going to devote a large part of my speech precisely to accessibility and participation on a social level. All people work differently. Yet it can be difficult to be in society if you don't talk, hear, think or go in a certain way, because society is unfortunately many times shaped as if everyone worked the same. Madam President, I would like Since joining the Social Affairs Committee, I have met and talked with people with functional variations and with their relatives, families, mothers and fathers, user organisations, lawyers and so on. I have participated in panel discussions and heard stories and life stories and various everyday anecdotes. The conversations are often about accessibility and participation in some form. At least that's where it usually ends. Or perhaps it is more about the experience or lack of accessibility and participation. Often it is a matter of difficulties to get to the bus, to get to various public places, to get across a street, to get up on a sidewalk or to get into a bus. But just as often the conversation is about the difficulties of feeling involved in the community, to feel involved at work or in the village where you live. These are stories from people who are affected by the decisions we make here today. The national objective of disability policy is to achieve, on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, equality in living conditions and full participation of persons with disabilities in a society based on diversity. The objective shall contribute to increased gender equality and to taking into account the perspective of children's rights. This is an objective that is binding. If we're going to achieve this goal, I think an accessible society is a pillar. If you are to be able to feel full participation, you must have access to and in society. Therefore, efforts to improve accessibility need to be carried out in all areas of society. We can see that there is much more to be done in this area. It is therefore a good thing that the Swedish Agency for Participation has been given a mandate to work to ensure that the disability perspective is given greater scope to public actors. Accessibility is about how society is designed. An accessible society is designed so that as many people as possible can use it and enjoy it. It is about being able to take part in the physical environment and being able to get around in society. But it also means having access to information and communication, and being able to use products and services. These elements in terms of accessibility and participation are something that we all need to reflect on together. It is something that must permeate everything from community planning to how we design our digital services and how we communicate in our authorities. I would also like to highlight two aids which are somewhat obscured but which are included in the report. The first is interpreting. Today's interpreting service for the deaf, hearing impaired and deafblind is too fragmented and arbitrary and is based on priority bases that do not always correspond with everyday life and reality. Interpreting is a must for a large group of people if they are to be able to participate in society. The Center Party therefore wants to investigate an improved and user-friendly interpreting service for people with hearing loss. The second point I would like to make is that of guide dogs. Today is the last Wednesday in April, which means that it is the day of the guide dog. So what's better than lifting this up? The guide dog is an invaluable aid for unsightly persons; it can be witnessed by the country's more than 260 guide - dog drivers. The guide dog gives visually impaired people greater freedom of movement and better opportunities to participate in society on equal terms with everyone else. With a guide dog it is easier to travel collectively, to get to and from work, to get to the store, to get up that curb and to get to various leisure activities and meetings and more. In our opinion, responsibility for leader dog activities should not be transferred from the National Association of Visually Injured to the Swedish Agency for Participation. In our opinion, there is an intrinsic value in the fact that civil society, in the form of the National Association of Visually Impaired, is given the opportunity to continue to take responsibility for society. Moreover, an organization for the visually impaired has a reasonable understanding of and understanding of the needs of its members rather than a government authority with no specific competence in this area. We therefore want to preserve the working order that exists for the lead dog activities today under the SRF. I naturally agree with all the proposals made by the Center Party, but for time, I only support reservation 15, which deals with guide dogs.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-257	Madam President, I would like It is so important to see the person – the person behind the disability, behind the wheelchair or behind the communication difficulties. It is important to see the human being, who has feelings, dreams, expectations and goals for the day – and for the future. It is a person who, like you and I, has the human right to self-determination in his own life. In the midst of the burning financial crisis in the 1990s, the Swedish Parliament decided to strengthen the rights of persons with disabilities by establishing LSS. It is the law that should give people with disabilities the right to live a life like others. At the initiative of the Christian Democrats, Sweden, under the Alliance Government, also undertook to comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – this to further underline that persons with disabilities have the same rights and obligations as other citizens of society, in short to see the person behind the disability. But what has happened, Madam President? Yes, we certainly cannot be satisfied. In the opinion of the Christian Democrats, Sweden today stands neither for the intention of the LSS nor for the UN Convention. The cuts in assistance, which have accelerated following the S-MP government's letter of regulation in 2016, have contributed to people's being deprived of their freedom and participation in society. People with disabilities are forced into social isolation and house arrest. It is extremely tragic, but it has gone so far that people cannot live without their assistants. The situation is really urgent. I hope and believe that most people know that we Christian Democrats are fighting for all the basic needs to be assistance-based in their entirety. Saving breathing and probing is vital, but it is not enough. We will debate this in more detail in this House in a few weeks' time. Madam President, I would like I and the Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but I would only like to endorse our reservation No 2 in paragraph 3, which deals with dealing with it. A key prerequisite for quality in all LSS operations is competent staff. There are many who conduct fantastic LSS activities, where the needs of the disabled person are always respected and put first and where the staff receive continuous competence development. Unfortunately, however, there are also major shortcomings. Reports from the National Board of Health and Social Welfare and the Inspection of Health and Social Care describe mistreatment and abuse that give rise to tragedies of the very worst kind. The concerns that too many people with disabilities and their relatives have to live with every day are inhuman. Security and trust that society will provide good support to those who need what is most to be rebuilt from scratch. A key factor is that staff in group and short-term housing have the right skills and perhaps above all support from current managers – managers working actively on the ground to create a good working environment, promote competence development and ensure that routines and work plans are properly followed and carried out. In order to really see the person behind the disability and to best meet the person based on each one's unique abilities and needs, we need to spread existing research and knowledge about how good treatment to people with disabilities should be. We Christian Democrats also believe that national targets should be established for how to be well prepared on issues relating to crisis situations for people with intellectual disabilities. This could, for example, be a crisis situation that occurs when a person with Down's syndrome gets lost or dealing with people with intellectual disabilities during a crisis such as the pandemic that we are in right now. Madam President, I would like We must never forget that LSS is a law of rights. This means that the rights must be equal for everyone, regardless of where in the country you live. Unfortunately, it is common for municipalities to judge differently. A person who has an LSS operation via a municipality, such as assistance, guidance or contact person, and wants to move to another person must also have the right to the operation re-assessed. The decision of the new municipality may therefore have a completely different scope or even be a refusal. Many people do not dare to take that risk, and it limits the freedom and freedom of choice of persons with disabilities. A youth may not be able to leave home. Another is forced to turn down work or study elsewhere. In short, it limits life and is contrary to the intentions of the LSS. We Christian Democrats therefore want LSS operations to accompany the person when moving from one municipality to another. Madam President, I would like Finally, I have a wish, and that is that something positive should come out of the current coronapndemine. There are many of us who are now practicing social exclusion in order to reduce the spread of infection. It is necessary and important, but I hear more and more people saying that they feel isolated, lonely and sad about not being able to meet their loved ones when they want to. My wish is that the experience of this limitation of our freedom and mobility in society should increase the understanding of how limited life is for the thousands of people with disabilities who have lost their right to assistance – those who live in isolation and house arrest every day. Madam President, I would like I hope that there will be a greater understanding among people in general but above all among my colleagues and decision-makers here in Parliament. I hope that this can lead to more people seeing the person behind the disability and that more people will fight with me and the Christian Democrats to save LSS and assistance.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-274	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that we naturally support all our reservations, but for reasons of time, I only ask for reservation 10 under paragraph 11. Madam President, I would like In the midst of the current Corona crisis, we are debating an important motion report on disability policy under rather strange conditions. The fact that our economy is going to fall and deteriorate as a result of the coronapndemine must not be used as an excuse for lower ambitions in the process of restoring legislation or in future reform efforts. Don't forget that the LSS reform was pushed through during a stormy economic crisis from 1993 to 1994! Our ambitions must be at least as high now as they were then. The outbreak of covid-19 has changed and changed the world and everyday life of our society, perhaps forever. In times of crisis, a society is really being tested, and covid-19 is a disease that has come to affect us all. It is for real, with different limitations in all our lives as a result. Many can no longer move freely and visit loved ones. Some are completely quarantined. There are many of us who have to work from home. Many have lost their jobs, and unfortunately there may be more. In fact, Madam President, in most ways we are going through what so many people with functional variations usually go through every day, all the time – a daily life of movement limitation, increased isolation and worse economic conditions. Madam President, I would like With the January agreement, we Liberals have partially stopped the continued dismantling of LSS, where, among other things, assistance in breathing and probe feeding has been restored. That, of course, is not enough. Major legislative changes and government resource enhancements will be required to rebuild and develop the LSS in accordance with its original intentions. Support for disability policies, including those outside the LSS, must be reformed and developed. The 65-year limit applicable to several of these aids must be increased or, in many cases, completely removed in order to ensure that people with disabilities can live their lives as freely as possible. Fragmentation of the LSS legislation is a problem that often creates a form of municipal arrest. The right, Madam President, to move freely across municipal borders must also apply to people with disabilities. Therefore, the aid must be equivalent in all municipalities. It is unreasonable for different municipalities and different authorities to individually assess whether a person belongs to the LSS population. If an authority – Försäkringskassan or a municipality – has decided that a person is eligible for aid, that assessment should also be accepted without further examination by the other municipality or authority. Madam President, I would like I would now like to say something about reservation 10. For a long time, people with sickness and activity benefits have fallen behind in economic standards. Living under scarce economic conditions has major consequences in a person's life. People who have an intellectual disability and live in a housing with special services according to LSS have very low incomes, perhaps the lowest of all in our society, and no opportunity to influence their financial situation at all. The need for support and assistance means that the choice of accommodation is very limited. It is also dependent on social compensation systems for its livelihoods. Municipal self-government and sometimes a seemingly arbitrary political decision means that the expenditure on the individual can also look very different depending on where you live in the country or on which side of the street you live. There is therefore a need for a thorough review of how municipalities apply the additional cost principle and the regulations on reserve amounts in the LSS and the Social Services Act. Madam President, I would like In these times of crisis, understanding of each other and each other's situation is more important than ever. In times of social distance, we also need greater social understanding and closeness. When we are quarantined and isolated at home, we may better understand the importance of personal assistance, which is the freedom of a person with functional variation. Perhaps we understand that without getting out and moving freely in society, long-term exclusion is created that often leads to mental illness. Those of us who do not have limited functional variation can be confident in the knowledge that our time in isolation is limited. It is a security that people with disabilities lack, Madam President.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-287	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal as a whole. The many exercises that have been written testify to a strong commitment to support people with disabilities. Most sports are about the law on support and service for certain disabled people, shortened LSS. It is a unique law of rights that promotes equality in living conditions and full participation in society. When we formed a government, we entered into the January agreement between four parties. In that agreement there are wordings about LSS that I would like to quote. It says that we should ensure that personal assistance and assistance compensation are characterised by high quality and legal certainty. We also want to ensure that all those who are entitled to support receive it. The right to self-care assistance, including breathing and probe feeding, shall be restored... the right to assistance for the needs of supervision shall be strengthened. The definition of normal parental responsibility shall be narrowed. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like These are clear promises that are binding and in the process of being implemented. They also show that we Social Democrats protect the unique law of rights LSS, which is so important to the individual's self-determination and influence over his own life situation. Our promise of a stronger society should be seen as a basis for how we want a society to be designed in which we mutually help each other. Society should be there if you need support or help. This means that no matter what life situation you are in, you should feel confident that we are helping each other together. But disability policy is so much more, and it affects us all. Let me take a few examples, Madam President. If we increase physical availability, it benefits everyone. For older parents or parents of young children, elevators are better than stairs. For those who are wheelchair users or those who bike are good walking and cycling paths a prerequisite. A tolerant society free from poor values provides so much better conditions for all of us regardless of our life situation. But we're not there yet, unfortunately. Madam President, I would like We still see significant differences between socio-economic groups. Generally speaking, people with functional variations have lower mental and physical health, lower incomes and significantly harder access to the labour market. Although we tend politically to debate the LSS often, we must not forget the whole. There we all have a responsibility to ensure that the national objectives and orientations of disability policy are implemented. The most important thing for us Social Democrats is to level out living conditions and economic gaps. An equal society benefits everyone. Madam President, I would like What have we done so far? Already during the previous term of office, the S-led government acted with several measures to ensure LSS based on needs, as the situation had become increasingly unsustainable following a number of precedents in the Supreme Administrative Court that significantly changed the right to support fundamental needs. The Government produced new legislation adopted by the Riksdag, with a stop to two-year trials until new legislation is in place. We also ensured that personal assistance can be granted between operations. Another sad child is that people in need of help with breathing and probe feeding are denied self-evident efforts. Steps have now been taken in the right direction, and we are trying to secure this self-evident right. This won't be enough. The government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has therefore set up an investigation. The mission is to review various issues within personal assistance according to LSS such as strengthening the right to personal assistance for self-care, strengthening supervision and reviewing how parental responsibility in assessing children's right to personal assistance can be narrowed. The Government is also reviewing the rules to clarify the legal situation of residents with special service under LSS. The purpose of the review is to prevent the individual from incurring additional housing costs due to his or her disability. The Parliament will also have to take a position on a proposal that provides better opportunities for adaptation regarding car support. Madam President, I would like Several previous speakers have mentioned the very strange situation we find ourselves in with the covid-19 and the coronapndemin. I believe that once we get past the pandemic, we will find ourselves in a situation where the demands for tax cuts brought forward in this House have become history at regular intervals. The debate in the future, after the pandemic, will rather be about how we help each other, how we are solidarity-based and how with a strong welfare society that includes the disabled, we will be able to secure welfare and equality for ourselves together.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-306	Madam President, I would like I know that Mrs Dag Larsson has a strong commitment to this issue and thinks it is an incredibly important area. I really appreciate it. At the same time, it is clear that the January agreement will not be enough. It's a bit on the way, that's it, but it won't last all the way. The wording of the January Agreement, which the honourable Member himself quoted, is that everyone entitled to assistance should receive it. We Christian Democrats tend to say that those in need of assistance will receive it, because it is the right to assistance that has been so incredibly restricted in recent years. The honourable Member is right that there are several judgments that have led to a stricter assessment. However, these judgments have been interpreted much more restrictively following the government's regulation letter in 2016. At that time old judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015 were dusted to reduce the development of assistance hours. That was the directive in the regulatory letter, and it has been devastating. My question is whether it is today's right that should be upheld. Or does the honourable Member, like us Christian Democrats, believe that all basic needs should be assistance-based in their entirety?
i-59de12953dc67ddf-310	Madam President, I would like I think it is important for the political parties to hold a dialogue on assistance rights and the LSS. We are humble enough to try to listen to what other parties have to say. We want Sweden to have a functioning LSS business. But there are concerns and problems when working on rights legislation, because then political will is often subject to detailed review in the judiciary. You should have that with you when you think about the LSS. Now we have it as a law of rights, and we will continue to have it that way. This makes it more difficult and difficult to change and improve the LSS than is the case in other social welfare areas. But we are happy to discuss how we can improve LSS also in the future. It is also true that there are other challenges. Sometimes you might think it's about trying to improve LSS and expand the benefits and systems to reach those who need to be reached. But it is also important to hold on to taxpayers' money by combating welfare crime and ensuring that we have systems that are safe and robust and reach those that are supposed to have help but do not open up to such bad examples that have also existed in Sweden.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-313	Madam President, I would like Of course, all crime should be prosecuted. After all, it is those who need the support who will get it. What is happening today, however, is collective punishment in the form of the cuts that affect so many people in assistance. I appreciate the conversation. I really want a call. I also think that we have good talks in the area of the Social Committee, so I very much look forward to an enhanced dialogue in this area too. I am pleased, Madam President. We also have a report in the pipeline dealing with breathing and gavage. There, the Christian Democrats have a request for a supplementary directive to the investigation that the honourable Member mentioned about self-care and such things. We believe that an additional directive should be drawn up to examine the possibility that all basic needs should be the basis for assistance in their entirety. That is what the honourable Member says – it is a law of rights. What is complicated is that there should be assessments at individual level. It's tricky; it is. But it's not impossible, because it's worked before. Today, case law has shifted so sharply that as many as 2 000 people have fewer assistance today than in 2016. 2,000 people! It's terrible. It is also incredibly difficult to get into the system. That is why I believe that we must restore this right, which is the fundamental intention of the LSS.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-317	Madam President, I would like I think we share that ambition. We also want a functioning LSS that reaches those who are entitled to that help. We want a flexible and well-functioning system. We have a rather difficult and tough job ahead of us, because it is about constructing legislation that works against the courts so that we do not face future concerns and problems. Another challenge that I would also like to underline and would like to discuss with the Christian Democrats is how we make the profession more attractive. It is important to ensure that those working in the LSS have decent and secure working conditions if we are to get people to want to work with this urgent activity. In this area too, which I would now like to highlight, I hope that there will be opportunities for discussion in our eminent committee.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-320	Madam President, I would like Freedom is something we often take for granted, but if it is taken away from us, we feel limited and want it back. Freedom is a very central concept for us Moderates. In these covid-19 times, we have probably reflected more on the concept and its meaning than we normally might. For laws and recommendations and the times in which we are currently living limit our freedom in different ways. In other countries, freedom is far more restricted than in Sweden. But even here in Sweden, those who belong to some risk group, such as seniors over 70 years of age, have really had their freedom limited. However, this restriction of freedom will exist not forever but for a limited period of time. Many have been on the same track today: to talk about freedom when we are discussing today's report. We are doing this because this motion for a resolution is basically about freedom. When you have a disability, it is support and the service you get is a question of adding more freedom to your life, and the support you get is not a limitation of the same. The LSS reform is an important reform of freedom, to be protected. LSS has meant increased freedom of choice, greater influence and better quality of life for many people with severe disabilities. Ultimately, it is a matter of ensuring that people with extensive and lasting needs for support are given the means they need for their daily lives. This requires a stable and long-term responsibility on the part of society. Madam President, I would like I have read the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's progress report on support and service to people with disabilities. It came last month, and it's interesting reading. The progress reports have been released every year since the beginning of the 21st century. I will present some conclusions in the report. Are you satisfied with the efforts you get? Well, happy to say, most people are satisfied with the support they receive. Satisfaction is highest among assistance users, which is gratifying because the starting point for personal assistance should be self-determination and a strong individual focus. However, satisfaction is significantly lower among people with interventions under the Social Services Act, where a large proportion is made up of people with mental disabilities. Women in this group estimate, among other things, perceived security in particular housing significantly lower than men. This really should be taken very seriously. Madam President, I would like We continue on the subject of mental illness. Mental ill-health among people with intellectual disabilities and autism is higher than in the rest of the population. The incidence of schizophrenia diagnosis and diagnosis of anxiety is as much as seven times greater. It is important to pay attention to mental illness in the LSS area. Operational and competence development at local level and national knowledge support are needed here. Madam President, I would like The situation report also highlights the availability of interventions for people with disabilities as a challenge that depends on several factors. Enforcement and investigation times are still long, and they continue to increase. This is highly problematic and allows people with disabilities to wait a long time to receive support to which they are entitled. It is positive that both the number of decisions and the extent of interventions to persons with disabilities continue to increase. The increase is not fully explained by population development. However, the rate of increase is not as high as before. Some external factors, such as the suspension of state assistance payments, contribute to this development, and this is clearly worrying. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that this debate is, of course, taking place at a very special time, to put it mildly. The effects of the pandemic are numerous. We have all probably come to value freedom and almost unlimited mobility in a completely different way than before. We will carry with us many experiences from this very special time, but also from the past years of the LSS reform, and we have accumulated knowledge in various ways; the aforementioned progress report is an example. From the debate, I think I can see that there are quite a few parties who see, for example, that we need to have a single headship. I hope that when we have this debate again in about a year's time, we will have been able to agree on a number of issues where we are moving forward the positions in the field of disability.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-332	Madam President, I would like In this report, our motion has been simplified – it was discussed at the last Parliamentary session. But, of course, we are still taking the same position, and I would therefore like to present the views of the Left Party. We are now in a crisis that affects the whole world and has enormous consequences for the welfare, the economy and, not least, the individual. Together, we must do everything in our power to mitigate the damage caused by the Corona virus and reduce personal suffering, so that as few people as possible can get sick and that our health care can last over time. Madam President, I would like I think that the government, parliament and society together have acted both forcefully and responsibly during this time. Everyone has acted quickly and jointly to resolve the issues that have arisen. We have shown that we are a country that sticks together when it blows hard, and it is actually something very nice. On the other hand, I have a great deal of concern for people with disabilities – the people who are most at risk from this crisis. This is not only because several of them are people with severe diseases, fundamentally and therefore vulnerable to covid-19, or because they depend on the support of society to have their fundamental rights met. It is also because this is a group of people who live in financial vulnerability and are now in danger of getting even worse if the right efforts are not made. The Left Party believes that it is extremely important that municipalities and regions receive the necessary financial support and that all cuts taking place around our country are immediately stopped. We must ensure that all health care personnel receive the right protective equipment and training to protect themselves as well as the people they meet. This is particularly important for individuals in personal assistance who are in close contact with vulnerable risk groups. Madam President, I would like We know that the economic crisis that the world and Sweden are facing will put a heavy burden on the municipalities. That is why we are particularly concerned about how the financial repercussions will affect people with disabilities, not least those who are entitled to personal assistance. It is precisely the economic aspects that have been the obstacle to getting the right to assistance in the past, so what will it be like after this? Madam President, I would like Personal assistance is under attack. In the last ten years there has been a dismantling of LSS and personal assistance. Only between 2016 and 2018 has the number of people with state assistance compensation decreased from 16,000 to around 14 500. In addition, record few new applications are granted, according to figures from Försäkringskassan. This is not a coincidence, but a result of political will, or rather unwillingness. When a law of rights and freedoms such as the LSS is attacked like this, it means a restriction in people's lives that for the vast majority is almost impossible to understand. Instead of being able to decide how they want to live their lives by means of their assistance, people have been completely referred to the financial conditions of the municipalities and, at worst, they have completely lost their assistance. We have previously asked the Minister for Social Affairs a written question about how the government is working to ensure the situation of people with disabilities in the coronavirus. Then we got the answer that it is the municipalities that are responsible for people getting the right support and help. At this point, it is not a comforting answer. We therefore believe that it is more urgent than ever for the government to act to restore and secure LSS and personal assistance. The government must immediately ensure that all basic needs are considered to be of a close integrity nature and thereby re-establish the intention of the legislation. In addition, the government urgently needs to ensure that assistance payments become the responsibility of the state rather than a shared responsibility between the state and the municipality. We believe that this is an extra important change to counteract the risk of people with disabilities taking the fall in a future economic crisis. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in an extraordinary situation, to say the least. The whole world does. But how we as a country will emerge from this crisis will depend entirely on how we choose to prioritise.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-345	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of SfU20 and SfU22 reservation 1. Madam President, I would like Covid-19 overshadows most of it right now. Policy work must focus on limiting the pandemic and its consequences for the sick, for health care, for relatives and for jobs. But there are major issues that need to be addressed in parallel. One of these is immigration. I am proud to live in an open Sweden – a humane Sweden. It is a country that helps people on the run and welcomes people with other stories and other experiences. I love sitting on our family party, where we mix three different languages with body language to try to make ourselves understood. There we mix Swedish traditions with Colombian in a single mess. I am also deeply moved by having heard testimony from close range about what it is like to live under oppression and fear of terror and what it is like to be kidnapped and locked up in a cage. It is a horror that I cannot even imagine but, as I know, is the daily life of the many people who are now on the run. Here in Sweden there is now the woman who has challenged her homeland's male power structures and been forced to flee her home. Here are the parents who literally went over mountains to save the lives of their children. Here is the man who has been persecuted for his political involvement. I am proud to live in a country that protects those who need protection and hope for those who doubted. Madam President, I would like Perhaps now there are a number of people wondering what I am saying. Perhaps some people are cursed: what right does she have to stand here and talk about openness and humanism – she who represents a party that pushes for a tight immigration and talks about volume targets? The answer, Madam President, is: because I want my country to help for real and because I am convinced that humanism can be measured not only by how many people enter our country's borders but also by how many people get a real chance to get into our society for real. Far too few get the real chance today, because in many immigrant areas there is brutal exclusion. In our 60 most vulnerable areas, every third student completes the ninth grade without passing grades. Every third person born abroad or having two foreign-born parents is presumed to live under the pressure of honor. 70 000 young people feel that they cannot freely choose who to marry here in Sweden. One in five unaccompanied persons has been forced to have sex against their will in exchange for money or housing. Even half of those born abroad can support themselves here ever. All these people are failing with continued unsustainable immigration. Madam President, I would like Right now, we, all parties, are in the parliamentary migration investigation tasked with developing a long-term and sustainable migration policy. It is not a small task, and time is very short. In a year's time, the temporary law will expire, and if we have not agreed on a new law, the old Aliens Act will come into force again. It is a law that differs greatly from other comparable countries and led to 23% of all EU asylum seekers coming to Sweden during two months in autumn 2015, which has only 2% of the EU population. It is a law that has meant a great deal of immigration for a very long time. It has, together with the total lack of strong integration work, created a totally unsustainable situation in which people are suffering. It's anything but humane. With the temporary law, we are close to the EU's minimum rules on asylum reception. The biggest exception is what the government pushed through last summer and which means a more extensive family immigration to Sweden. Despite the temporary law, Sweden received 23 000 asylum seekers last year, which is the sixth largest reception in the EU. This also means that we received three times as many asylum seekers as Denmark, Norway and Finland together during that year. N u wants a majority of Parliament's parties to make politics more generous. Several parties will argue in the debate today that this is what is humane. In fact, it is deeply problematic for all those who have already come here to stay but who are prevented from building a new life because the exclusion is holding them back. That is why we Moderates believe that we must remain at a minimum level. The only humane thing is to receive as many as we have the power to integrate. That is so that we can take advantage of the momentum and will of those who have come here. These are driving forces that today often atrophy in deep exclusion. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about the so-called High School Act. Three leading environmental parties have written a motion proposing that unaccompanied persons who have been here for three years should automatically receive a permanent residence permit. The Left Party also wants to see an amnesty, and the Center Party wants to relax the regulations. There are very many who have contacted me and others before today's debate and vote and appealed for an amnesty. The situation of the unaccompanied is terrible. They have been thrown between hope and despair and faced with unreasonable regulations. These are regulations that we Moderates have said no to from day one. The reason for this is that those covered by the law have been deemed to have no grounds for asylum. Around the world we see enormous suffering, and historically many people are on the run. The priority then given to granting a residence permit to persons who have no grounds for protection is completely wrong. We must help those most in need. It is also the basis for regulated immigration: every person has the right to access for his or her asylum reasons, and those who have reasons should be allowed to stay while those who do not have reasons should leave Sweden. If we continue to abandon those principles and grant amnesties and enforce special legislation, we undermine regulated immigration and confidence in politics. It does not help those in greatest need of help. That's not what's humane.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-368	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating three different reports from the Social Security Committee. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the following reservations: reservation 2 in SfU20, reservation 1 in SfU21 and reservation 2 in SfU22. Of course, we are behind all our reservations, but in order for us not all to sit here and vote until tomorrow morning, I choose to focus on the most important ones. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament's way of working in coronatides means that as few people as possible should travel to and from Stockholm. Unfortunately, therefore, neither Jonas Andersson nor Jennie Åfeldt, who usually deals with migration issues in committee, can take the debate today, although I know that they would very much like that. I therefore come to the best of my ability to express our views on these issues, even though it is not my responsibility. Madam President, I would like The debate today has special conditions. We are in the midst of a pandemic that has already taken the lives of thousands of Swedes. We also face major socio-economic challenges. Indeed, the Corona crisis puts many things at a head, and it is impossible not to relate to it. It is impossible even in a debate that touches on different aspects of migration policy. We have seen segregation, overcrowding and language confusion become a catalyst for the spread of infection and how, unfortunately, some ethnic groups have been particularly hard hit by the crisis. We have seen interest groups and certain political parties using the crisis as a lever to arrange amnesty for selected groups. We also see Turkey's President Erdo中an using the Corona crisis and vulnerable people as a tool in a cynical game. Busloads of migrants are being sent directly to the Greek border to squeeze them out, sick or not, out of the country – all to gain more money from the EU. This can also have serious consequences for Sweden, which still has open borders for asylum seekers. Madam President, I would like Let us not be led to believe that it is less important to discuss migration policy today. It's more topical than ever. This is the time to make a start on what immigration and migration to Sweden should look like during the 20th century. It is about time we got our migration policy in order, so that we can focus on a good type of migration and real refugee support and leave naïveness, exclusion and chaos behind us. Madam President, I would like Of course, it would be convenient to be politicians in a fantasy world with endless resources, where priorities are not needed, but the Swedish Democrats want to take real responsibility. We don't live in a fantasy world. We realize that there are no infinite resources. We need to find political solutions that take account of reality and contribute to real results. For example, we would rather spend resources on helping many more war refugees in the immediate vicinity of the crisis than large resources on allowing people who have no refugee reasons to stay in Sweden. For this reason, over the years we have continuously drawn up a number of proposals to improve Swedish migration policy. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, safeguarding the right to asylum has become a form of incantation. It is like magic words that Swedish politicians can hide behind in order to emphasize themselves as humane. But the decency that you like to talk about, of course, only works as long as someone else does the hard work. We rely on other countries to keep their borders, but we are more than happy to condemn the methods. The government has outsourced the toughness to Greece or Spain and allows taxpayers to pay the billion bill. Madam President, I would like Asyline migration has accounted for about a quarter of immigration in recent years. When you count relatives that follow, the proportion grows strongly. The share of foreign born in Sweden has increased by nearly 1 million in the 2000s. It's a doubling in just 20 years. This has been the case despite the fact that we have had no crisis in our neighbourhood for decades. There are no Norwegian resistance men, Finnish war children or people from the Baltic countries who are desperate in the search for sanctuary. No, instead it is people who travelled hundreds or thousands of miles through many safe countries and who, sadly, have both benefited and been subjected to illegal trafficking in human beings in order to reach the final destination at the top of northern Europe: Sweden. Anyone will understand that the authors of the 1951 Refugee Convention hardly had this in mind when they laid the foundations for the right of asylum. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats of course believe that people who flee for their lives should be given the right to protection and security. We uphold the right of asylum as originally intended, and we stick to the principles that were discussed when the Refugee Convention came to 1951. In short, this means that people are seeking asylum in the first safe country, if possible with both geographical and cultural proximity, and that they will then assist in providing people with protection in the immediate vicinity. But there is no room for secondary movements or so-called asylum shopping. Madam President, I would like Instead, let us draw up a new system for quota refugees, which takes into account the capacity of municipalities to receive and integrate people. It would also give us a chance to give priority to particularly vulnerable groups in refugee camps, such as women, children, LGBT people and Christian minorities, while at the same time giving priority to humanitarian aid rather than an inefficient aid policy. In this way, we can create a sustainable refugee policy that is humane and not just in theory. Madam President, I would like This debate concerns not only asylum policy but also labour immigration. It is a bit unfortunate, because the confusion of these very different types of migration has been too great for many years. Asyline migration and amnesties are often motivated by the need for care, and labour migration is used as an alibi for the economic sustainability of refugees. But let us now look at the facts: The level of self-sufficiency is spectacularly low, especially in those born abroad from Africa and Asia. Only 16% of all immigration in the 2010s was labour-related. In addition, a very large part of that category was low-skilled low-wage workers. In addition, from some countries there were more relatives of migrant workers than there were workers. In addition, they were completely free of supply requirements. It falls on Swedish taxpayers. In short, even when you really focus solely on labour migration, you can't talk about a rain of skills. It is important to keep the facts on the table right now because everything points to a socio-economic crisis and ostensibly unemployment. It was already totally unreasonable to import cheap labour, which in many cases is also mercilessly exploited under slave-like conditions. It becomes even more unreasonable in the midst of the current crisis or after the crisis when we need to make even more use of domestic labour. At the same time, it is just as unreasonable to expel highly qualified skills, as we have seen. For example, deporting a doctor in the midst of a pandemic while rapists stay is completely insane. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats therefore want to focus on immigration of highly skilled workers. These immigrants must be responsible for the livelihood of themselves and their families. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, votes have been raised for a specific group of young men to receive amnesty in Sweden, that is, permanent residence permits. But the handling of the High School Act has been one of the biggest farce in Swedish legal history. Some 9 000 young men with an unclear identity have been refused asylum applications in all instances for lack of protection. That group was considered by the government together with the Center and Left to be excluded. They got an extra chance to stay in Sweden if they met some basic requirements, simply summarized: Go to school and get a job! When the coronapandemia is shaking Sweden, most people can feel the consequences. Tens of thousands are laid off. Thousands of companies are going bankrupt. In the worst case, a friend or family member dies in the suites of the disease. Of course, the shock waves from the pandemic will also affect this selected group, and therefore not everyone will be able to meet the requirements. However, it is no more a pity for that group than for others who have no reason to stay in Sweden. If you don't have reason to stay in the country, you need to leave the country. It is the very basis for regulated immigration and for focusing on genuinely vulnerable refugees. Madam President, I would like Putting the demand for amnesty at the same time as health care is in a state of disaster, entrepreneurs see their life's work run out of steam, tens of thousands of citizens are told and the state is not only irresponsible. It's both unserious and rude. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention something about what has recently been highlighted in the media about women from Thailand who have been exploited ruthlessly. We have read terrible stories about how women and children suffer and are subjected to violence and abuse. These are things that both the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have been proposing measures against for a long time. For example, the Swedish Democrats have long pushed the question that extracts from the criminal record should be requested automatically when someone finds a new love abroad and that people who come to Sweden in newly established relationships should have access to straight and clear information already at the time of application. We also believe that an automatic check should be made of the affiliated person in the Migration Agency's register so that foreign women, and for that matter men, do not risk becoming victims of any kind of serial imports. Madam President, I would like These suggestions could protect many people from harm. It is therefore extremely sad that only two parties are voting in favour of the proposals today, although I know that several parties have raised their voices in social media and in the media, moreover, because this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. I therefore assume that in the future we will see broad agreement to remedy the problems and that not only two parties are voting in favour of the proposals. Here a little honesty and action are now needed if we are to deal with the problems. Madam President, I would like As I said, it is now high time for a responsible and humane migration policy.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-392	Madam President, I would like Right now we have a corona epidemic that affects our lives and our society very much and in large contexts. No one is unaffected, but society is affected in different ways. This also applies to migration policy. A consequence is a fairly important matter concerning our seasonal workers who come from outside the EU and who do not have an opportunity to come here to Sweden to work in the green industries, where there is a great need. Travel restrictions in different parts of the world simply make it impossible for them to enter Sweden. Others manage to get here in one way or another but are not allowed to cross the border because of the entry ban. At the same time, Madam President, thousands of forest plants are waiting to be planted. Other important elements of our green industries also need labour. This is an urgent problem to which we must find solutions now. I very much hope that the EU's Home Affairs Ministers, who met yesterday, have managed to find a solution to how it will be possible for people to move at least within the EU. But just because we need to solve these problems here and now – of course – we need to – we should not lose sight of the future. It is the future that is important in this context, and that is migration. Last autumn, work began to develop a long-term and sustainable migration policy. This work must continue in order for us to have new legislation in place – by a large majority, I would like to point out – when the temporary legislation expires in just about a year's time. At the same time, we know that migration policy is extremely complex. These are issues that really affect people, and their opinions are sprawling widely. That is why political courage and great responsibility are needed in order to dare to compromise and shake rock-solid positions and agree on a long-term sustainable migration policy. One might ask why a broad and long-term migration policy is so important – the world is changing. Yes, it does. In 2015, Sweden received just under 163 000 asylum seekers. It was an unprecedented situation in modern Swedish history. A strained situation was created in which municipalities, authorities and voluntary forces were put under great pressure. This pressure was handled well on the basis of the conditions, and we should be grateful for that now. But it became clear that Sweden was not prepared for such a large reception. The question is, could we be? Yeah, maybe we did. It turned out that a large number of people who applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015 put a severe strain on the reception of asylum. At the same time, the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in recent years. This means that we need to find a sustainable and long-term solution for reception so that it becomes more flexible and so that both an increased and a reduced number of asylum seekers can be dealt with. The temporary laws of recent years can no longer be extended, and we need to get away from a hasty and short-term perspective on migration policy. For this reason, a long-term and broad-based migration agreement is now required, as the Center Party has long sought. We are pleased that, within the framework of the January agreement, we have achieved the establishment of a parliamentary committee to look at the future migration policy. The Center Party is, I would like to stress, ready to compromise seriously in order to achieve a broad migration policy that will last for the long term. The Center Party's entry into the talks is that migration policy should be based on humanity and humanism in combination with order. In this context, I would like to highlight three more points. We in the Center Party think families should have the right to reunion. We also think that we should return to the provisions of the Aliens Act for special and painful reasons, so that people with, for example, severe diseases or children who have grown up in Sweden can stay. The third thing I would like to mention in this connection is that there is a need for greater responsibility for those who, on their own, qualify into our welfare system. Perhaps most important of all is that we see a broad agreement. We are prepared to take our responsibility for this to happen, and now we hope and expect other parties to work for it as well. In doing so, Madam President, I support the SfU's proposal and refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party on SfU20, paragraph 1.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-403	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is lightning-lighting our society. It lightnings its strongest aspects of cohesion, community and people who do their best in all parts of society to help make everyday life and well-being work. However, the crisis also highlights the weakest aspects of society, including class gaps, inequality, gaps in welfare and security systems, and the price of privatisations. On the basis of the difficult and global pandemic that we are now in, I would like to draw attention to what the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and Refugees writes about what action is required, namely: our response to this epidemic must include and focus on those that society neglects or refers to low status, otherwise it will fail. If we think about it for a while, we understand that it is just like that. When the Swedish Public Health Agency refers us to working at home, there are large parts of not least the LO collective that do not have this opportunity. When the Public Health Agency urges us not to meet older people who are at risk, there are many people, not least in the big cities, who because of overcrowding do not have this opportunity. When we all know that social distance, careful hand-washing and the possibility of staying at home in the least symptoms are absolutely crucial to reducing the spread of infection, it is not an option given, for example, to homeless people in our own country, to people who are being released into the street from our custody or to the tens of thousands of refugees now being crowded in Greek refugee camps. Our response to the pandemic must therefore include everyone in our community in order for us to succeed. Our response must enable everyone to be helped to stop infection and manage the crisis. In all other policy areas, political parties now take great joint responsibility, sometimes difficult ones that stretch our usual political positions. But about the consequences of the pandemic on migration policy, nothing is happening. Now we are seeing how tough living conditions affect people with all kinds of residence permits, so that their possibility of family reunification may be jeopardised by unemployment. We see how all children and young people who are not covered by the new High School Act are getting even worse off in homelessness and lack of enforcement barriers that should be issued. This is unreasonable. We have a political responsibility to cover all those affected by the consequences of the pandemic in our community, including in migration policy. The parties behind the High School Act also have a responsibility to ensure that it works. The Left Party has therefore called on the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Center Party to resolve the problems that have arisen with us. In the first place, we still want to see a permanent solution for the unaccompanied. However, in this situation we also see an urgent need to address some shortcomings in the legislation. It is therefore a good thing that the Center Party and the Green Party, which are behind the new High School Act, also want to do so and take responsibility for the consequences of the pandemic that is now affecting young people. Unfortunately, however, the Social Democrats seem to turn their backs on these young people. Madam President, I would like It is also gratifying that the demands for a permanent residence permit solution for children who have been separated from their parents and fled alone to Sweden are now again being made from several quarters, from political youth organisations, from parties in this House and from human rights organisations. Since 2017, the Left Party has been pushing for a comprehensive solution with permanent residence permits for these children, many of which have in the meantime become young adults. These children and young people have been deprived of their right to asylum in several ways. The government promised that children would be exempted from the Temporary Restrictions Act. Yet this was not the case because of a change of practice from the Migration Board. The promise the Prime Minister gave to them was broken. In addition, they have suffered years of waiting and legal uncertainty. In the judgment of the Migration Court of Appeal, it was stated that a large part of the group that was under the age of 18 should in fact be assessed as an alternative need for protection and be granted a residence permit. However, the length of processing times allowed many to reach the age of 18 before the asylum decision was taken. To claim that these are children and young people who lack protection is simply not true. These are people who have been deprived of their right to asylum. In a country where the Convention on the Rights of the Child became a law this year, we have a special responsibility when we see that children do not have their rights met. We now need to take this responsibility together, Madam President. Twice, therefore, the Left Party has highlighted the issue of an amnesty. Unfortunately, the other parties have not taken the opportunity to vote in favour of it. We therefore chose to support the new High School Act, although it was clear from the outset that the law was thorny, difficult to interpret and had many flaws. Since then, more and more shortcomings and problems with the law have emerged. Now, in the midst of the Corona crisis, it is clear that the government and parliament need to take the same responsibility for the consequences of covid-19 as they do in other areas. This means, among other things, ensuring that people are not deprived of their opportunity to live with their family if family members lose their jobs and that children and young people who are now experiencing fluctuations in migration policy, legal uncertainty and now the Corona crisis have an opportunity to stay. In its draft state budget, the Left Party has budgeted for such an overall solution, in which those who come here as children without parents can receive permanent residence permits. It is a reform that is good both for society and for the children and young people it covers. Our initiative involves about 11 000 people, both those who have been granted temporary residence permits under the new High School Act and those who have not succeeded in doing so. Based on estimates from the parliamentary investigation service, we estimate that such normalisation would cost SEK 800 million. This would lead in the short term to savings by the Migration Board and the courts and, of course, move costs to establishment instead. Sweden has already invested in these children and young people, and through a secure future they will be part of our common community building. We call it amnesty. But as far as I'm concerned, you could call it anything. It is, in fact, a recognition that we in this House are responsible for people when they come under pressure because of the policies that we are pursuing and for the unforeseen consequences that this pandemic is now having for them as well. A Committee on Migration Policy has been set up, which includes myself and many others in this House, which will produce new legislation to replace the Temporary Restrictions Act. Therefore, this year the Left Party has not put any sharp proposals on refugee policy on the table of the Riksdag. However, in order to give Members of the Riksdag a chance to do the right thing and give permanent residence permits to those who fled to Sweden without parents, we have chosen to highlight a motion from a motion by the Green Party's Gustav Fridolin concerning the permanent residence permits for those who came as unaccompanied minors. The Left Party normally requires permanent residence permits for all minors who have been separated from their parents and waited for more than a year. But the proposal from Gustav Fridolin covers only those who have been here for more than three years. But since the majority came in 2014 – 2016 this is a big and important step. I therefore hope that all Members and parties of Parliament will examine themselves and ask themselves whether they really believe that we have fulfilled our obligations under the right to asylum and under the right to children's rights against these children and young people. And I hope that enough people will choose to vote in favour. In particular, I hope that the parties behind the new High School Act now see that we need to rethink and include the whole group in a secure future. That is why I support Amendment No 3 to the SfU20. Madam President, I would like In the light of the work that is going on in the parliamentary committee, the Left Party has not chosen to present the party's proposals for refugee policy during the general period of exercise, but rather to pursue our refugee policy in the Committee. Our proposals on inter alia family immigration are presented in more detail in our previous motions and in the specific opinion contained in the report. Family immigration is one of the few legal routes to Sweden for people on the run. The temporary law has considerably limited that path. If more families on the run were allowed to reunite, this would mean that many people did not have to take the deadly route across the Mediterranean. Living with one's family is a human right that is strongly protected by international conventions and the right to family reunification should be extended. The Left Party wants to remove the 18-year limit for family reunification and reintroduce the so-called last-link provision, which meant that if a single family member remained in the home country, he would be granted a residence permit to come to Sweden and live with the rest of the family here. In addition, the supply requirements imposed by the Temporary Act should be abolished. The right to live with one's family should not depend on class affiliation or be jeopardised by housing policy failures. We also want to make it possible for family members to move in at so-called rapid connections, in order to enable family reunification, for example, of LGBTQ people or honorary people who have not been able to live openly with their conditions in their home countries. The two-year rule in the case of broken relationships, which means that, in order to maintain your residence permit, you must remain in the relationship despite violence, was extended by the temporary law to cover in practice five full years. In addition, the exemption was removed for cases where there has been violence or acts of serious violation. We are very critical of this decision and believe that we must return immediately to the previous order. No one should be held in a violent relationship for fear of expulsion, Madam President. Finally, Madam President, I will say something about labour immigration. The Left Party has not been exercising in this area this year either, but we refer to our particular opinion. A well-functioning labour migration can bring much for the individual who comes here to work as well as for the Swedish economy and labour market. However, the position of migrant workers in the labour market must be strengthened, Madam President. The widespread exploitation of labour immigrants on the Swedish labour market must be stopped. This requires a change in current labour immigration rules. The Left Party extended a hand to the government to induce it to make such changes, but unfortunately it did not take the chance. Instead, the Left Party, together with the Moderates and the KD, chose to try to find proposals that could even out the imbalance of power and find broad political support, not least from the Social Democrats as a workers' movement party. We therefore support the initiative on supplementary directives for the ongoing study on labour migration, and we see this as important steps in the right direction. However, we would have liked to have seen proposals for stronger measures, for example that the employer should be able to show that recruitment is based on an actual shortage of labour, that employees who come forward and tell us about irregularities in employers should be allowed to stay in Sweden for the permit period and that there should be requirements for legally binding employment contracts.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-423	Madam President, I would like In this context, work is under way in the Migration Policy Committee, which will shape the future of Swedish migration policy. Here we Christian Democrats have chosen to try to work constructively. We are working towards a final product, a migration policy, which takes into account our country's capacity to integrate. When this does not happen, we get overcrowded suburbs, parallel communities, exclusions and settlements with thousands of people. As politicians, we must dare to see the link between immigration in excessive volumes and the serious social problems we have to contend with. But let it be crystal clear that a tight migration policy has no intrinsic value in itself; it is now, instead, a must if we are to manage to integrate the people we have received. Madam President, I would like In reservation 4, we Christian Democrats state that the search pressure to Sweden must go down to a Nordic level. If Sweden is now to compare itself with other countries, we see it as logical to choose countries similar to our own, and despite all similarities, Sweden differs considerably when looking at the number of people seeking asylum in our country compared to the three other Nordic countries. Last year, 2019, Sweden received more than three times more asylum seekers than Norway, Denmark and Finland did together. This was not a one-off incident, but has been going on for a number of years. Sweden is the most populous country in the Nordic countries, so it is not surprising but quite reasonable that we have a reception that in figures is larger than the other Nordic countries. But it is not reasonable that the Swedish reception per capita should be more than three times greater than the other Nordic countries combined. We Christian Democrats believe that Sweden must have a very tight migration policy for many years to come. However, this obviously presupposes that at the same time we have a legally secure process. In this House, I have repeatedly raised the issue of dealing with convertible matters. It is often Muslims who have come here to Sweden, met Christianity and embraced the Christian faith. Here we have pointed out a number of shortcomings, and there have been a number of improvements following the criticisms that have been made. For us Christian Democrats, it is undeniable that it is important that we have a legally secure process, not least if at the same time we advocate a tight migration policy. We have therefore put forward the proposal to set up an inspection on migration issues. We believe that it is not enough for the authorities themselves to be responsible for reviewing their procedures and monitoring their work without the need for an inspection with the aim of detecting system failures and thereby increasing legal certainty for the individual. We believe that the focus of the inspection should be on ensuring the correct and uniform application of the legislation. It is important that return work, that there is a clear distinction between a yes and a no in the asylum process and that these decisions are complied with. It is central to the very legitimacy and trust in our right to asylum and in our regulated migration policy. It is also central for us in Sweden to be able to be generous in providing protection to people who actually have protection reasons. Therefore, the Christian Democrats will not support calls for an amnesty for those who are currently covered by the so-called High School Act. They have been tried not once but twice – often three – and found to have no grounds for asylum. 中 Swedes have us as a land atter. This is a statement by one of the many women attracted to Sweden by a Swedish man. The newspaper Expressen is currently publishing a series of articles about what they call the "fruimporten". The series of articles is made after a research study has shown that almost half of the women who have been attracted to Sweden have been beaten mentally and/ or physically. I am referring to this because we Christian Democrats have tabled a proposal this year too. We have a reservation this year with the Swedish Democrats, reservation No 2, to which I request approval. Today's legislation is not enough. That's what Expressen's series of articles so mercilessly shows us all. However, this is not new knowledge; as early as 2012, the report Women and Children in the borderland of the Court of Justice, in which the government's investigators pointed out that thousands of women every year seek help after being subjected to violence by their husbands. The study also believes that the knowledge of women was inadequate and that the information therefore needs to be improved. There are examples of men who exploit foreign women by starting a relationship with them and within two years either abandoning them or otherwise forcing them to leave the relationship. We Christian Democrats want to put an end to this and are now actually counting on the support of more than the Swedish Democrats in terms of our reservation. It is up to us as elected Members to change this – not just to speak in Expressen or in social media about how terrible it is. We believe that there should always be a check through a register extract. Excerpts from the criminal record shall be made in respect of:
i-59de12953dc67ddf-433	It should be picked up and collected for all so-called reference persons. A check must be made, based on the population register and the Migration Agency's register, of previous connection requests. If the reference person is previously convicted of a violation of health or peace or of a sexual offence, the applicant shall always be informed of this orally. Swedish embassies that have to deal with these application processes should be given this assignment. They should also be given the task of providing more complete information on the rights of these persons and on the protection that can be given. Finally, I would like to say a few words on reservation 5 of the report on labour immigration and on the excessive processing times for work permits. Sweden needs more companies that start, grow and hire, not least when we have made it through the covid-19 pandemic. This calls for a competitive economic climate but also for a high level of access to skilled labour. Labour immigration can therefore, properly designed, contribute to the development of our country and to a growing economy. The Christian Democrats, not least in the professions in which they currently lack labour in Sweden, want to create a legal way to come here and work. It is therefore important to shorten the processing times at the Migration Agency. We would like to see a 30-day guarantee when it comes to a complete application. In this area, too, we have a special opinion on how to shape future labour migration. Labour immigration is important for Sweden, but Sweden is today the only country in the whole Western world that opens the doors wide for people to perform unqualified tasks. We take the zero impression of whether or not there is a shortage in a profession, even though only a few countries in Europe have a higher unemployment rate than Sweden. We have our own able-bodied but unemployed people who need jobs, and then we should not import labour from the other side of the world. The Christian Democrats want to see a labour immigration policy that tackles the abuse and exploitation of labour immigration while ensuring that the necessary labour immigration is socially profitable. Madam President, I would like We have a number of reservations, but in order to save time, I only call for reservation 4 in the report on migration and asylum policy, for reservation 2, which we have together with the Swedish Democrats, in the report on family immigration and for the joint reservation 5 – together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats – in the report on labour immigration.
i-7pXt8DGjFdpZiLiXbwZ9xK	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 15 in the Social Security Committee's report 20. This is the Liberals' reservation concerning the European Union's migration policy. I would also like to support reservation 7 in report 22 on labour immigration. I'm not born in Sweden because I'm extra strong, smart, handsome or anything else. I was born in Sweden because I was lucky. I have been fortunate to be born in a country that is democratic and free and gives me great opportunities – in a country of prosperity. If you're so lucky that you're born to live here, it means at the same time, I think, that you have a responsibility to be there for people who haven't had that opportunity or that luck in the lottery of life. It is clear that in a small country like Sweden, we cannot bear the injustices of the whole earth on our own shoulders; there are, of course, limits to what we can do. But I think this perspective is very important. It is important to see that we have a responsibility to help alleviate the distress of people around the world. This can be done in many different ways. For example, we can do so through our aid policy and humanitarian emergency aid for people fleeing from conflict areas or in refugee camps. We can do this by having a free trade and a market economy in the world that means investing more in countries that are poor and, for example, providing more opportunities for people to work. We also do so through our labour migration. It's really double. It is basically something that is important for Sweden, for our business community and for our economy. We need manpower. But we also provide the opportunity for people to send money back home to relatives – so-called referrals, which is a hugely important source of income for many poor countries in the world. Of course, we do so also by being there for people who are fleeing. I am very concerned that so many countries today – richer and freer countries – have strongly growing and loud opinions that want to completely close the borders. This, combined with some sort of increasingly serious and cruder xenophobia and immigration hatred, and in several countries attacks on refugee camps, testifies to the fact that today we have a much tougher social climate, not only in Sweden but also in many other countries. Madam President, I would like What I feel as a liberal politician is that I want Sweden to continue to be a country open to immigration in the long term. I am concerned that our country will not be so if this development continues. It is about that we have had a policy in Sweden that has not been sustainable in the long term and that has created very big problems with segregation, exclusion and so on. At the other end, there has been a counter-reaction to this policy which calls for effectively closed borders. I am equally concerned about both these developments, and when they are somehow twinned together, coexist and reinforce each other, it gets even worse. Sweden must be a country open to immigration in the long term. This means that we have to formulate a policy that means that we are there for people who come to Sweden, and we will do it in a way that our society can handle. This is harder than you might think. We do not give good opportunities for a good new life in Sweden if the life people face in Sweden is a life where there are no jobs or housing, where social services go on their knees in many areas and where people end up in residential areas that are characterized by completely different values than what should permeate Swedish society or if people end up in schools where virtually no one around them speaks Swedish and if they have hardly anyone in their surroundings who has a job to go to. It is clear that such an existence in Sweden is better than living in the middle of a war zone – we all understand that – but it is not a sustainable policy that gives people the opportunity to have a good life in Sweden in the long term. Now we have a Committee on Migration Policy. There I sit for the Liberals, and several of my colleagues in this debate sit on that committee for their respective parties. In this committee we now have an important task. It is important that all parties are prepared to take responsibility and are prepared to find a long-term solution that means that Sweden can continue to stand up and help people on the run and people in need and that we do so in a way that is sustainable for our country and that means that we also manage this commitment. It's not just about letting a person stay in Sweden. If people live in Sweden for the rest of their lives, they must have the opportunity to have a good life. This means that migration policy can not only be reduced to deciding who gets yes and who gets no, but it must also be integrated into an entire community project that makes us understand that Sweden takes responsibility by letting people live here. This is a responsibility that extends for decades to come. We cannot welcome people with cold hugs and a closed labour market and housing shortages. This is not a good way for our country. From this perspective, Madam President, I can briefly touch on the demands now being made for specific solutions for certain groups in the form of collective amnesties, for example. On the Liberal side, we are very sceptical about this. We believe that it is not reasonable in a migration policy that should be legally secure and based on asylum law and individual examination that one selects a group and gives that group a completely different set of rules from all other asylum groups. It builds in a kind of contradiction if you put different groups against each other and that we find very difficult. We have therefore said no to such amnesties. There are, of course, a number of issues that I have not touched on in this speech. This concerns, for example, the issue of the return of people who receive funding. It is about what rules should apply if you want to bring relatives to Sweden, how much you should be able to support and so on. What should a system of temporary and permanent residence permits look like? What are the rules governing labour immigration? There are a number of issues that we need to discuss and debate more continuously. A lot of them are in the Migration Policy Committee that is now working, and some issues lie in other investigations. When this pandemic and the particular and horrendously serious situation that we are now in is over, when we can see the light in the tunnel and get out of it – when we get a more normal position in Sweden – we need to take the steps towards a new policy, so that we avoid this patchwork of temporary laws and exceptions and instead get legislation that is sustainable and legally secure.
i-U8BLqFsHSrcPR44hr9wBnP	Madam President, I would like We are now debating three motion reports from the Social Security Committee: SfU20 Migration and Asylum Policy, SfU21 Family Immigration and SfU22 Labour Immigration. I call for the proposals in all three reports to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. I would like to begin by saying that many of us who are taking part in the debate today are members of the parliamentary committee that will take a position on the formulation of the future Swedish migration policy with a view to establishing a regime that is sustainable in the long term, as many have also mentioned here in the speaker's chair. The Committee will consider the broad national regulation of asylum policy, which will be required in addition to the regulatory framework to be established by the revised European asylum system. Migration policy shall be humane, legally secure and effective. It shall ensure that individual grounds of protection are taken into account in applications for asylum and that Sweden's international commitments, such as those resulting from the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees, the Geneva Convention, and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Convention on Human Rights, are respected. Migration policy should respond to society's need to be able to plan for basic public services to people who settle in Sweden in good time and that these individuals are given good opportunities to establish themselves in the country. In a changing world, it will reduce the need for temporary solutions and ensure a permanent order with broad support in the Swedish Parliament. Everyone who has heard this debate can understand that it is a great complexity to reach a long-term and broad agreement. In the light of this, the Committee shall consider whether the general rule is to be a temporary or permanent residence permit and the length of the residence permit, if additional grounds are to be introduced than those resulting from EU law and Swedish Convention commitments on a so-called new humanitarian basis for residence permits, to what extent family immigration is possible, if a supply requirement is to apply in the event of family immigration and how such a requirement should then be formulated. The Committee shall also analyse the need for further measures to strengthen legal certainty in the asylum process. The Committee may, if necessary, propose measures, including, for example, further investigations and missions, as well as, of course, a description of the socio-economic and other effects of these positions. The assignment must be presented by 15 August 2020, i.e. this year. Then you can all understand that this is a large and complex mission. The fact that I am taking up time to explain this is because what is described in the reports, and which is now under discussion, is well taken care of in the Committee's work, but not labour immigration. However, this issue is also being investigated at the moment and received further directives when we debated it in this House a few weeks ago. Madam President, I would like Migration in the world is increasing. At a time like this, with a pandemic spreading throughout the world, it is easy to understand that people on the run feel extra anxiety and are particularly vulnerable. This also applies, of course, to a large extent to people living in large refugee camps. It is therefore very good that Commissioner Ylva Johansson has succeeded in getting some countries to receive more than 1 000 unaccompanied refugee children – 1 600 are said – who have been in refugee camps in Greece for a long time. A prerequisite for Sweden to be able to manage this development both in the short and long term is that migration policy is sustainable and legally secure, while safeguarding the right to asylum. Asylum law is a fundamental right enshrined in international conventions, and I think it is important to emphasise this. 160 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015. It is the year to which we often refer, and it is since then that we have received the temporary laws– we have had several. It is clear that this led to major challenges for the entire asylum system but also to major challenges and pressures for Sweden's municipalities and relevant authorities. The measures taken at that time in Sweden, together with political changes in other countries and within the EU, have reduced the number of applicants for asylum in Sweden over the years that have followed since then. It has been more than 20 000 per year. The number of people this year is difficult to say, because we have the vulnerable situation that we have now with the pandemic that is going on. The Temporary Act will apply until 19 July 2021. The political agreement reached in January 2019 between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals states: This is also what I have described, which is therefore an extremely important piece of work. In the EU, the Commission has since 2016 proposed revisions of the legal acts forming part of the Common European Asylum System. Work on the revisions is ongoing. I also know from several contacts with migration Commissioner Ylva Johansson that she is working intensively on the issue. When we have both the work of the parliamentary committee at national level and the work on the revision at EU level, it is against now making some announcements to the government about the design of future migration legislation. Madam President, I would like It is also worth mentioning that Sweden now receives 5 000 quota refugees annually. Of the persons proposed for resettlement in Sweden, vulnerable minorities, women and children and relatives of persons already present in Sweden are to be given special attention. Of the approximately 5,000 quota refugees who were granted a residence permit in Sweden in 2019, 2,539 were women and girls and 2,788 were children. I think it is extremely important to emphasise that we take a great deal of responsibility also when it comes to resettlement for quota refugees. Quite often I meet one of these, Shirin. I hope she's listening now. She originally came from Afghanistan and came to Sweden with her mother and sisters, one of whom has a disability. That I meet her so often is because I am active in a football club, and we have hired her so that she will have an opportunity to support herself with a secure employment. I also know that many associations work with it. The debate that will follow here is precisely about culture and sport, and I know that it takes great responsibility for those who have come to Sweden from other countries. The number of asylum seekers who apply to Sweden has decreased significantly, as I have talked about. In contrast, the number of migrant relatives has increased in recent years. It is not surprising because it is now possible to obtain a residence permit for relatives. It was a change that was made last year and that I think was very good. In particular, the health and development of the child and the other best interests of the child shall be taken into account. Although we have not had the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law in the past, as we have now, we have adopted it and had to comply with it in the past.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-471	Madam President, I would like The secondary school law is unreasonable, unfair and inhumane. It is unreasonable and unfair because it gives people the right to stay here even though they do not have protection reasons. It is inhumane because those covered by the High School Act have gone extremely badly. They are thrown between hope and despair, but in most cases it only ends in one long expulsion. Of course, responsibility rests extremely heavily on the parties that pushed through the law, including the Social Democrats. We Moderates have voted 'no' from day one. We have listened to, for example, the Law Council, who said that the limit was reached for how Swedish legislation could be designed. Now several of the social democrats' cooperation parties – the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Left Party – want to change the law again. It refers to covid-19, but many of these parties drove an amnesty or a change in the secondary school law even before we were hit by the virus. It would be very unfortunate if the Social Democrats fell under pressure. As, for example, the Delegation for Migration Studies has pointed out, this type of special legislation and amnesties undermines the whole of regulated immigration and seriously complicates return work, where Sweden is already failing. Do the Social Democrats palate the pressure? You've never done it before. You've given in. My question is therefore simply: can the Social Democrats in this House promise that there will be no changes to the High School Act this time?
i-59de12953dc67ddf-475	Madam President, I would like The principles of the migration policy of the Social Democrats were raised in the speaker's chair. For us, the right of asylum is extremely important. I can also add something that I did not say in the speaker's chair but for which we stand, namely that we should have regulated immigration. That is what we have always stood for. In the changes made after 2015, there was quite a lot of pressure both from organisations and from others, but they did happen anyway and were voted through here in the Riksdag. So we can take it for quite a bit of pressure. These changes were made on the basis of the government that had been before – talking about coping with the pressure. Many unaccompanied children and young people had had to wait a very long time to have their case tried. When it was then tested, as Maria Malmer Stenergard says, many did not get the right to asylum. Then, too, with reference to having waited so long, they had the opportunity to stay for study and possible work. That is what we stand by.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-478	Madam President, I would like I am not entirely sure that I think it was a very clear answer. They say that they have always stood up for regulated immigration. At the same time, it admits that pressure has been given in and has pushed through special regulations that are at risk and demonstrably undermine the whole of regulated immigration. I am actually looking at a clear answer – yes or no: will relief be implemented in the High School Act?
i-59de12953dc67ddf-480	Madam President, I would like The exceptions that were made for those who had not been granted the right of asylum were provided for in two secondary legislation. I assume that Maria Malmer Stenergard means the latest one, which has made it possible to obtain a residence permit for studies and also to have the opportunity to get a job. It's the one that should apply, not any general amnesty or anything. That is the answer I am giving now.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-481	Madam President, I would like Migration, asylum policy and labour migration are issues that arouse a lot of emotion. The three reports we are now debating deal with a total of more than 240 requests from general exercise time, ranging from European level to procedural issues and the format of residence permits. These are extremely important issues, not least for many who are directly concerned. For many it is directly vital what the regulations look like. This summer, a committee was set up to review how the long-term migration policy in Sweden should be designed. The establishment of the investigation was one of the points in the January agreement between the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party. The investigation has worked during the autumn and is also in progress this spring. A report shall be presented by August at the latest. On behalf of the Green Party, we have been clear about our input into this work. We are concerned that a new humane protection foundation will be in place, so that, for example, severely ill elderly people without arranged reception in the country of origin or children who have strong links to Sweden will be able to continue living their lives here. In Sweden earlier there was the possibility to stay for tender reasons. I often meet with desperate people who call or write, or who meet when there is no pandemic, and talk about children in their vicinity to be expelled, children who have spent most of or even their entire lives in Sweden. One example is a family in Sundsvall that I have had contact with in recent weeks. They have three children, two, ten and twelve years old, and would be expelled – parents also to different countries – despite the fact that all children were born and raised in Sweden. It is not reasonable, and therefore a humane basis of protection is needed to ensure the best interests of children. Madam President, I would like Another important part of the Committee's work is the rules on family reunification. The right to family life is a fundamental right. Not being able to live with one's children or with one's partner is something that no one should have to endure. Sweden should not divide families. Families should be allowed to live together. The rules must make this possible for refugees as well as for those in need of subsidiary protection. Madam President, I would like The secondary law and the question of unaccompanied minors is an issue that has been in the political debate for years. The new High School Act was voted through in 2018 by four parties. Despite its shortcomings, it gave some 8,000 people a chance to stay in Sweden. These are young people who go to school and who have the possibility of a permanent residence permit if they get a job after completing schooling. Now Corona has come and changed the conditions. It is more than reasonable to make changes when conditions fundamentally change in a way that no one could imagine just a short time ago. Madam President, I would like Labour immigration is another issue that has been in focus and that many discussions have been about during the parliamentary year. There was an investigation in January. Initiatives have also been taken in the Social Security Committee and adjustments have been made to the directive which, among other things, aims to put an end to the expulsion of skills, but also to prevent employers who use people from doing so. Basically, we will protect a regulatory framework that enables people to come here and work in Sweden and contribute both to themselves and to our country but with conditions that are fair. Madam President, I would like Many in our country are concerned about developments in the growth of racism, the increase in discrimination, the failure of people who should have been allowed to stay and the failure of the European Union to agree to cooperate and help each other when the need really demands it. There is concern that we will become a colder country and that our part of the world will be. I also have such concerns. But the path we take is not predestined but depends on political decisions. Madam President, I would like This is today's fourth debate for me. It is the last of the day for me, but it is also the last time that I am standing in Parliament's pulpit for this year. From Monday I will read fewer reports and reports and more books about Greta Gris. I'll be on parental leave and focus on my daughter. But time passes quickly, and I will soon be back. The Green Party will continue to push these issues as persistently and with the same frenzy as now. Until then, I would like to thank both the President's Bureau, the counter- and co-debaters and all the parliamentary committees. I support the proposal in the report.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-495	Madam President, I would like In my previous reply to the Social Democrats, I referred to the High School Act and what it has led to. It has led us to undermine regulated immigration. Delmi points out that this kind of special legislation leads us, for example, to make return work difficult in a serious way. There are very few young people who are covered by the law who are able to meet the requirements. So far, 21 have been granted a residence permit. For the vast majority there will be a long expulsion during which you are thrown between hope and despair. I sincerely hope, and I believe that has been demonstrated, that we should not now make further adjustments to the secondary legislation precisely because it undermines regulated immigration. The question I would like to ask Rasmus Ling is: What negotiations are going on in the government about this?
i-59de12953dc67ddf-498	Madam President, I would like Basically, we should not have a regulatory framework with special legislation, but on some occasions things happen out of the ordinary that make it legitimate. The High School Act came about because a large group did not get their case tested before they reached the age of 18. It was because of circumstances that they could not control. There were long processing times at the Migration Agency, and if we are to have legal certainty, everyone must be able to have a review under the conditions that apply when they arrive. That's why the High School Act was justified. Now the conditions have changed again in such a way that neither I nor Maria Malmer Stenergard even in our wildest fantasies, or nightmares, could have imagined just a few months ago. Exceptional measures are being taken in all possible areas, and the Moderates want to present 100 billion a month. Action at such a level could never have been the case if we had not had such an exceptional crisis. This means that we need to look at this. On behalf of the Green Party – I have noticed that there are also more parties who want to make changes – we will push this forward so that the regulations change so that those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act have the opportunity to stay.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-500	Madam President, I would like I agree, of course, that it is problematic that they were affected by such long processing times. It is very important that we have reasonable processing times in the asylum process. But the fact that there were such long processing times was because we had totally unsustainable immigration. If the Green Party were to decide on its own, we would continue to have unsustainable immigration with extremely high levels with which we are not able, and then we will again find ourselves in situations like this. Time and again the Green Party finds reasons to demand different amnesties and special regulations. It is not sustainable in the long term for regulated immigration. Now it is said that the conditions have changed again because of covid-19. I agree with that. There are unbelievably many people who will be hit very hard by unemployment. They're gonna have a hard time getting a job. But one of the problems with the law that the Green Party pushed through is that cyclical changes can affect very much people's ability to stay. This in itself is unreasonable, but we cannot have a situation where we change our immigration policy after the economic cycle changes, although I agree that it is an extreme situation. I also note that the Green Party demanded amnesty long before covid-19 struck. But now I won't argue anymore with Rasmus Ling. I have done that enough over the past year, but always with a very nice tone from Rasmus. I would like to take this opportunity to wish you a truly wonderful parental leave. Maybe it'll be the best time of your life-- I'm pretty sure. I look forward to working with you again, Rasmus Ling, when you get back. Thank you very much.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-505	Madam President, I would like Even when the High School Act came into being and already in the first version and thus not in the new High School Act this was called amnesty by many who did not want it. It wasn't an amnesty at the time. It was supposed to be an individual trial. What we have said is that we want a changed regulatory framework that gives you an honest chance on the basis of the new conditions that actually apply. We also want a sustainable, regulated migration policy from the Green Party, but of course it differs significantly from what the Moderates and Maria Malmer Stenergard want. This is an issue that we have discussed not only in this House but also on many occasions in the past. I would also like to thank you for the debates we have had and thank you for the good wishes. Who knows, we may run into each other in northeastern Skåne at some time this summer or in the autumn.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-508	Madam President, I would like I have followed the debate over the last few weeks and note that what Rasmus Ling and the Green Party are saying is that they want to change the job requirements that apply in the final phase of the High School Act. According to § 16 and § 17 of the High School Act, a person must be granted a residence permit for six months to apply for a job. The next paragraph describes what kind of job it might be. Now the Green Party is saying that the six months should instead be twelve and that the demands on the type of job should be lightened. Madam President, I would like What surprises me a little is that the Green Party has been involved in drafting the law. This isn't something that's just come up. For example, unicef presented the type of employment in its opinion when the first secondary school law was drafted. In the bill, the government, which included the Green Party, as it is now, explicitly wrote: ..................................................... This is not an issue that has arisen as a result of the pandemic. The Green Party must surely bear some kind of responsibility for what they have put their signature on in that bill. It seems strange that they now hux fluxes come and demand something quite different. This has been known for years.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-511	Madam President, I would like The Green Party takes full responsibility for what we are presenting. But you shouldn't think that this is something that has been up to us to decide on our own. We have negotiated this issue once we have tabled it. The Green Party has made it clear that we would have preferred to have seen a different design. But this was the one we got, and we were glad we got that far. Even if we negotiate products at this and other times, we will continue to pursue our policy. I have noted that the Liberals are also doing so in other areas. It's not surprising. It's exactly how it works. It is true that the regulations have been known all along. But the situation we have now has fundamentally changed the situation. Now we have changed the rules retroactively for the unemployment fund. You could have the feeling that everyone has known that they can get rid of the job and therefore should have been in the unemployment fund. When a situation like this arises, I do not think it is a reasonable approach. It is very good that we have done so and that we have a retroactivity. However, it must also be possible to do so in other areas. This applies, for example, to the High School Act. This also applies to labour migration, where adjustments may need to be made to avoid excessive consequences for businesses and workers.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-515	Madam President, I would like This also applies to the Center Party. They don't have the line, but it's exactly the same thing there. They demand things even though they themselves negotiated something completely different years ago, fully aware – that's the core of this – that the group affected by the Upper Secondary Education Act also came with a strong economic cycle to have a very weak position on the Swedish labour market. It concerns the second part of this, namely the length of residence permits. Here, too, the Green Party has negotiated and enforced legislation that is clear. It is six months that apply for a job, and the clock starts ticking from the issue of the diploma. But now the Green Party goes out and says: No, it should be 12 months instead. It's exactly the same thing here; this is nothing that's come up now. The Green Party is using the current situation and crisis to try to get through things that they negotiated away three years earlier and that they obviously do not want to stand for. It is worrying that they do not take responsibility for what they have pushed through. In addition, there is a great risk if, as Rasmus Ling argues for, the requirements for what type of job should be sufficient to obtain a permanent residence permit are relaxed. Tell them you're allowing probationary contracts! Then the employer can terminate the person immediately. The person receives a probationary period, and it shall lead to a residence permit. All of a sudden, the job is being pulled off. Then the person has been granted a residence permit and may become unemployed again. The same applies to temporary, subsidised employment and so on. It opens the door to a risk of trade in employment contracts and other things. Unfortunately, that would put these guys in another extremely difficult situation.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-520	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm is arguing in this debate as if the coronapendem has not happened, as if the pandemic that worldwide has shut down communities and completely turned the world upside down does not exist. We have made a long series of agreements between our parties and the other parties in the January constellation. These are changes that we had sneezed and laughed about last autumn. It wasn't on the map at all that it was going to happen. But it's happened. These changes have taken place. This disease is spread around the world. The fact that it has consequences also for those covered by the secondary legislation is quite natural and something we should do something about. Changes have taken place in a wide range of other areas. I have not heard Fredrik Malm say that it would be unreasonable to go in with massive support for companies and workers who have been affected. If he is to be consistent, Madam President, he must see that it has an impact on this too.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-523	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Moderates' reservation 2 to be approved. Of course, we also support our specific opinion. A strong Sweden needs both public and business activities and voluntary communities. Not least at this time with the coronapendem, we are reminded that civil society is of great importance for cohesion and democracy. Civil society organisations and their members play a concrete role in different ways. Volunteering is strong in our country. There are many of us who take time and are involved in different ways in different organisations to help in society when needed. I myself am active in the civil defence in Flen municipality and help to drive food bags out to people in risk groups. These are forces that are needed but should not be directed in detail by politicians and authorities. Civil society organisations shall be based on the voluntary involvement of individuals. The task of politics is to contribute to good conditions for an independent civil society, not to limit or regulate in detail. Madam President, I would like The good society we create together. The Moderates believe that some of the responses to the challenges we see in today's society are in deeper and improved cooperation between schools, healthcare, social services, elderly care, culture, sport and civil society. There are great opportunities to make use of each other's knowledge and commitment. However, it requires clear political signals that this is a priority and important work. Idéburet public partnership, IO P, is a partnership relationship between the idea-based and the public sector. When a public authority and an idea-based organisation enter into a partnership, they together define a societal challenge. The Moderates believe that the IOP is a way to deepen cooperation between the non-profit and the public. The IOP in its current form has been around for a number of years and the government should therefore evaluate this work and make proposals for further deepening cooperation. Madam President, I would like State support for civil society is important and should continue. However, in order for the aid to be considered legitimate, the scheme must be transparent. The criteria for obtaining support and how it is to be used shall be clear. Tax money should never be paid out to organisations that do not share the fundamental democratic values of Swedish society. We want to ensure that public funds are not allocated to activities that risk promoting or supporting radicalisation, honour repression or violent extremism. Legislation, regulatory framework and working methods should be reviewed to the extent necessary to ensure the effective use of support to civil society. Madam President, I would like Sport is more than sport. In associations hundreds of thousands of children and young people are raised by voluntaryly engaged adult leaders. Child and youth sport is an important part of our public health but also an essential bridge builder for social inclusion. The Moderates want to develop a sports and leisure policy that reaches all children and young people. Research indicates that physical activity leads to students performing better in all school subjects. Unfortunately, there is also a reverse in sport. The use of illegal hormones among mainly young adults who practice strength training and martial arts has increased in recent decades. At the same time, the number of Swedish elite athletes convicted of cheating through doping is very small. Doping has thus gone from being a sporting problem to becoming a serious social problem. However, the anti-doping work in Sweden is still taking place within the Swedish Sports Federation. This is unique in an international context. That is why we have been pushing for a long time the proposal that work against the illegal use of hormones be moved to a stand-alone anti-doping unit. It is therefore good that the National Sports Board has decided to take the next step in implementing an independent Swedish anti-doping organisation that is fully in line with the new World Anti-Doping Code. We in the Moderates will continue to monitor this. Madam President, I would like Sport is not just for children and young people. With growing age, exercise is becoming increasingly important. Loneliness among the elderly is a social problem. Here, too, sport can offer social community. Physical activity is one of the most important factors in staying healthy. Motivating older people to practice regularly is important from both a human and a socio-economic perspective. More and more people are living longer and longer. This is a great success for society at large, and it creates new opportunities. But it also places some new demands on society. Here too, civil society organisations can be a good partner. Already today, physical activity on the programme is often on the agenda of many pensioners' associations. Madam President, I would like The good society we create together.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-536	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating sport, civil society and education, which are three major blocks of cultural policy. They have many qualities in common, not least in these times. Civil society helps with homework and food purchases. Sport contributes with community and public health. Folkbildning makes it possible for more people to help in healthcare. This report is exceptionally large, and it is impossible to debate the whole content and all the reservations that we have. I will therefore speak overall about our view of civil society, sport and education. First of all, I support reservation 14 on sports facilities. In these coronatides it is clear how much social intercourse and not least physical activity means to us. Sport has always been a big part of my life, from an early age. Now that sport is struggling with the challenge of isolation, we find new ways to move. Digital workouts carried out in the living room instead of group training at the gym have become a new routine for many. Outdoor gyms and outdoor training in the nearest park have replaced indoor training at the gym. We have had to change the way we practise, but it has proved to be going reasonably well. On 20 March, the government, together with the chairman of the committee, promised SEK 500 million for sport as a result of the effects of the Corona virus. It took a long time before the principles of how the funds would be distributed and who would do so. However, this is now in place. There is probably no one who questions the role of sport and important work. What is questionable, however, is the government's lack of dialogue with opposition parties in times of crisis such as these. Who and what will receive direct payments and how it will happen is a dialogue that we would have liked to have participated in. However, this was not the case, which we regret. Madam President, I would like Sport faces some challenges when we have left the Corona crisis behind. Many of the sports facilities used are in great need of renovation. It is usually the municipalities that are responsible for the sports facilities, and we know that the municipalities cannot afford to prioritise renovations of already functioning sports halls even if they are in very poor condition. Denmark has solved the problem of a local and civil fund. It is a fund from which you are looking for money or funds for a renovation, and you can get support for part of the renovation cost. The fund also provides architectural assistance. It can help with modern solutions for existing premises to offer more innovative locations. The committee visited the Foundation last year to find inspiration. I very much regret that no more parties thought this could be an opening and an opportunity for the municipalities to renovate more sports facilities here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Physical and mental illness can be counteracted by movement and association. I hope that the sports movement can quickly return to normal activities with competitions, training camps, training courses and more as soon as the pandemic is over. Civil society shows its best side during crises. We help each other and those who isolate themselves. Groups are formed to offer food purchases or produce protective equipment. Civil work becomes a matter of course when society screams for help. We have seen a number of examples of this, and today, with the help of social media, efforts are being made very quickly to gather together. Without the voluntary pool of forces that now emerges, we would have had much harder to face this crisis. Without civil society, we would not have associations to help those most in need. According to the Swedish Democrats, civil society has many qualities that are important for building a good society. The efforts of individuals and civil society associations can contribute to the strengthening of social capital in society as a whole, while also having a significant impact on, for example, the development of knowledge, public health, democracy and the preservation of cultural heritage. A key factor in maintaining public support for public-funded support to civil society is the responsible distribution of this support. Beneficiaries of such support shall comply with certain minimum standards of quality and social welfare. Everything else is a lack of respect for democracy and taxpayers' money. Madam President, I would like We owe a great deal to the process of democratisation in our country. In its early years, the education of the people was crucial to the chances of the less prosperous to attain education and personal development, which in turn was an important basis for the further process of democratisation. As a complement to the educational options of the public sector and as a route to social community and a dissemination of the desire to learn, peoples' education also today has an important role to play in our society. In order to receive support today, one must have an interaction with a public education actor. It has therefore been difficult for small actors and movements to be able to access the funds available to apply for to expand their activities. The system has not been working properly. In the system that has been in place, peoples' education operators have been able to refuse to be sponsors, thereby ensuring that new entrants have not been able to enter and benefit from state funding. We as a party have drawn attention to this and pointed this out. We also exercised about a change in this area in our committee motion on public education issues last autumn. Last autumn, the Board of the Folkbildningsrådet announced that it would change the system by removing the requirement for collaboration with existing state grant recipients and instead introduce a trial period of three years. This shows the value of us as an opposition party – we can be involved in ensuring that contributions and systems around the Folkbildningsrådet are well-functioning, so that citizens can have high trust in them.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-553	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Center Party, but for the winning time I only agree to reservation 6. In these times of crisis caused by Corona and Covid-19, it feels special to stand here and discuss this report. However, the report, which deals with civil society, including sport and education, turns out to contain many important elements on how society can function during and after a crisis. Every person must be able to contribute according to their own ability and be able to participate in society. Civil society is often quickly in place when there is a need for organised cooperation between people. In order to give civil society better conditions, the Center Party believes that it should be investigated how the right to deduct donations to non-profit organisations can be broadened. When an idea-based organisation wants to cooperate with the public to make public contributions, difficulties sometimes arise because there are no clear models, like procurement rules, to use. There may be confusion about different legal arrangements, which may put cooperation at risk of not happening. That is why we in the Center Party want to develop models for such a partnership between ideas-based organisations and the public. There will then be opportunities for more cooperation to take place. There are also areas that have traditionally been association-driven activities but which have gained new actors in the form of entrepreneurs. This may, for example, involve the recycling of products or sports arrangements. This has led to the emergence of a market in which there was no market in the past. This creates difficulties for those who work on a voluntary basis, for example when authorities require market rent to allow an association to use land. This also risks undermining the right of association. For us, this means that it is time for an association law investigation with the aim of clarifying and strengthening the specificity of civil society and creating reasonable regulatory frameworks for the activities. It should include, for example, the question of extending the half-price base rule, which currently applies to sports clubs, to other associations of general interest. We can also see that there are obstacles in the systems for greater integration. We always want to make sure of the individual, whether it is the case that a person will probably be allowed to stay in Sweden or not. We want the individual to develop through, among other things, relations with civil society. It is about education and not just education. The Center Party wants to improve the opportunities for civil society to make a contribution to society. One way is better knowledge of the challenges that exist in society. The public can be much better at cooperating with civil society here. There must also be affordable access to assembly facilities even in cities to enable this type of activity. Therefore, the public at all levels needs to be better at making their premises available to associations at times that are otherwise unused. Those who volunteer to contribute to society with their commitment must have good conditions for doing so. There is a problem with project grants at the expense of basic support for non-profit organisations. They make the operation difficult to control, as basic support is needed to be able to apply for projects and not least in order to develop their activities. In order to strengthen civil society's ability to be more fast and flexible and to respond to society's challenges, we want to see an increased share of basic support in the contributions from the public. Madam President, I would like We who are here are interested in politics and want to improve society based on our ideologies. Some of us also have a great interest in sports. If we are to be honest, the interest in sport is probably greater than the political interest in the country in normal times, but right now it can be the opposite. Now that all public sports activities are down in the world, many of us can see how important sport is both for spectators and practitioners. Sport has much to offer in terms of health, joy and association. Therefore, a broad sporting life should be promoted throughout the country, so that both established and new sports, including digital ones, become available to more people. For people with disabilities it can sometimes be difficult to find suitable sports activities. Parasport can be a way into physical activity. However, it is far from all young people who have the opportunity to participate in the sports that exist on the ground or in the sport that they are passionate about. If you have a disability, you may, for example, need a travel service to get to the training. You may need a whitelighter to participate. You may need special aids. You may also need a leader who is knowledgeable in parasports. It is the municipalities that grant travel services. Many do not approve of this. Nor is it acceptable to escorts or the purchase of assistive devices. The training of leaders of parasports is something of course, but it is also important to remember that this is something for municipalities' boards and boards for sport to take seriously. In other words, there are several things that need to be improved and changed. All children need to be activated, and people with different disabilities need it more than others. For these young people there are insurmountable obstacles that society bears a responsibility to remove. Madam President, I would like More recently, several court hearings on noise have led to a deterioration of opportunities for sport. It is based on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's general advice on noise, where noise from sports facilities is now treated as industrial noise. Then you should really think: Is there noise when children play? For sport, a limit of 45 decibels applies, for road noise a limit of 55 decibels. So the road next to the sports field is more noisy than the children do. This has meant that some sports facilities have already been restricted and that more facilities are threatened by the same thing. There are also higher requirements for motorways than for road and air traffic, for example, which means that the road to the engine track has to noise more than the engine track itself. The importance of sport to both individuals and society is invaluable. Therefore, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency needs to be given the task of reviewing the general advice on noise emissions linked to motorways and the sports facilities that currently fall under the definition of industrial noise. The aim should of course be to facilitate the activities carried out there. Sport is good for both physical and mental well-being. Therefore, it is important to find out, among other things, why girls stop playing sports so early. We want an investigation to be set up to develop solutions for girls to end so early and for the Swedish Sports Federation to be given a clear mandate to achieve gender equality in Swedish sports as well. The existing tax legislation, which today makes it more expensive and more difficult to sponsor women's sport than men's sport, should also be reviewed in this context. Proximity to sports and outdoor activities is important for more people to have the opportunity to be active. This can include proximity to sports fields or access to ski tracks in a nearby natural area. There is also a need in many places to take greater account of the need for sports areas in urban planning. Then we'll get back to the noise thing. If you put a sports area inside the city, it makes too much noise, and you have to shut it down. Madam President, I would like Contacts with others and education are central to being able to orient themselves, shape independent perceptions and actively participate in society. Here, all parts of civil society play an important role. One example is the formation of people, where we create room for reflection and together gain deeper knowledge of our world. Formation broadens our views and makes us freer. Society is enriched when there are good opportunities for people to join forces and learn more about a subject in common. Here, peoples' education contributes with a structure that supports the breadth of educational activities. This activity plays an important role in society and cannot be replaced by training organised by the public or educational enterprise.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-572	Madam President, I would like This debate will focus on a broad range of issues in the fields of sport, civil society and education. Unfortunately, it is not quite possible to get deeper into all those parts. My focus today will be on sport, where we have several proposals in the report. Sports Sweden does not stand still but almost. The competition is set for adults, and training cannot be carried out in the same way as before. At the same time, more than ever, we need to get out and move. All children and young people need their routines and meetings with friends. We know that there is now a great risk that many people will suffer from ill health at this stage, and sport can really make a difference there. Regrettably, associations have lost sponsors when companies have reduced their finances, and many lose their revenues when they cannot sell match tickets and have to cancel youth cups. The 500 million now to be allocated is a welcome addition. But it also needs to be done at municipal level for example for rents for plans and halls. For the Left Party, it is essential that there are good opportunities for sports for people of all ages, regardless of background and economic conditions. It is about the right to good health and meaningful leisure time and the opportunity to have a social context. It is about a broad palette of efforts needed to create the best conditions for people to live an active life. We believe that space for sport and movement must be included as an important component of community planning and have previously, during the term of office, exercised about changes in the Planning and Construction Act in order for this to become a reality. At an early stage, society needs to be able to comment on the planning of new residential areas. In a report from SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, 2014 it turned out that the number of sports facilities has been relatively constant over the past 25 years while the population has increased by over 1 million people. Many of the halls built in the 80's and 90's also have major renovation needs. A few years ago, the National Sports Association produced a report on the situation in the municipalities. It turned out that almost half of the country's municipalities experienced a lack of training times. The problem existed in both large and small municipalities, and the associations stated that they could not accept all children interested in sports because of the difficulties in accessing training times and places. It is very unfortunate when we see that sedentary sitting is increasing among children. Based on the figures developed by the Swedish Sports Federation, we could also conclude that municipalities and associations need to make efforts to get girls to exercise more because they were only half as active as the boys. When new sports areas are to be planned, an analysis of gender equality needs to be carried out. It should be obvious to find out what activities the girls in the municipality want. Madam President, I would like To remedy this situation, the Left Party wants to introduce billions of subsidies for sports facilities. With the help of state co-financing, municipalities can invest in the construction or modernisation of an existing sports facility that meets the needs of the individual municipality, and the proposal was included in our budget for this year. The elderly are another group that is often overlooked when it comes to sports. Right now it is not possible for those over 70 years of age to participate in group training. However, when we can eventually return to more normal conditions, we see that the government needs to come back with suggestions on how to secure older people's access to sport and physical activity throughout the country. Research shows that it is possible to build muscle mass up to 90 years of age. Older people who exercise actively in different ways feel better. Of course, it's not just muscle mass, but physical activity also provides mobility and balance. This is something that can significantly reduce the number of falls among older people. This is particularly important for women because they are more likely to be injured than men in the event of falls. Training for the elderly thus contributes both to an improved quality of life and to reduced healthcare costs. In the past, we have been exercising to set aside special money for older people's sports. Madam President, I would like The Left Party also sees a need to strengthen the opportunities for sports for people with disabilities. Every fifth person between the ages of 16 and 29 who has a disability never exercises, according to figures from Statistics Sweden. It's twice as high as for the rest of that age. Ill health is almost ten times more common among people with disabilities compared to the rest of the population, according to the Swedish Public Health Agency. These are very serious figures that we need to take on board. Today there are a lot of obstacles to people with different disabilities having the same opportunities for exercise and sports as others. We heard here earlier that the representative of the Center Party also mentioned some of this. These could be purely physical obstacles in the form of sports facilities that are not adapted. It may be that you live in a small town and there is a lack of organised association sports within the parasports. The deterioration of the right to assistance puts a stop to those who need support in order to be able to practice their sport, and for those who live in a particular home, it may be low staffing that creates problems. There may also be a feeling of insecurity and exclusion that makes you not dare to go to the association and try out a sport. In other words, efforts are needed in several different areas and the involvement of both the state and the municipality and associations in order to overcome this. The parasport can be divided into three categories: sport for persons with disabilities, for those with visual impairment and for those with intellectual disabilities. Today, it is the National Sports Federation that is responsible for allocating the state funds to the various special sports federations. Traditionally, parasports and thus athletes with disabilities have been organized in their own association. But for a few years now there has been an objective and work to bring these sports to the respective sports federations. This development hopefully leads to more space for the parasport and more associations engaging in accessibility issues and making room for all sports enthusiasts. We think it would be of interest to investigate whether targeted contributions from the political level to the parasport could be a way to strengthen the position and increase the incentives for more associations to invest in order to eventually get more athletes in the parasport. Several of the sports are very costly. For example, a wheelchair specially built for rugby costs around SEK 75,000. For those who are blind and need a guide for skiing or running, for example, it is very expensive. The service is another obstacle and a cost. We also know that families with children with disabilities also have lower incomes than the average family. All this suggests that the parasport needs a strengthened economy. We propose that the government investigate the consequences and conditions of establishing a grant level for the parasport in the state grant allocation. I commend my reservation 8. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words here at the end about the conditions for civil society. I think I'll have time for that. Organised civil society is an important part of the construction of society. Civil society organisations contribute in their role as voice carriers to the visibility of a variety of ideas and perceptions and to the representation in public of the interests and perceptions of different groups in the population. Civil society also plays an important role in times of crisis when voluntary engagement and humanity act as a counterweight to polarisation and contradictions. Unfortunately, when culture, sport and business have received support packages, civil society has been forgotten by the government. I hope that we will soon see action for this important sector.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-592	Madam President, I would like Civil society communities – associations, organisations, religious communities and social enterprises – play a major and important role in our society. In times of crisis such as the ongoing coronapndemine, this is particularly evident. The public measures and recommendations taken to reduce the spread of the new Corona virus have led to increased isolation, loneliness and risk of vulnerability, as well as the risk of unemployment. Ideal call lines such as Bris and Mind have seen a sharp increase in the number of calls in the wake of the pandemic. These lines of conversation are invaluable support for many, and they must be protected. Civil society, like industry, is adversely affected economically during the pandemic. Revenues for organisations are reduced when, for example, second-hand shops need to close, when events are cancelled, and when camp activities and premises may not be rentable. The cancellation of events involving crowds also reduces the possibility of fundraising and sales. The uncertain time is also causing companies to reduce their giving. In order for civil society organisations to cope with and survive the current crisis, the Christian Democrats as a single party propose a comprehensive crisis package in this area. We propose that the tax reduction for gifts be increased to SEK 100 000 for this year. We propose that cost support be introduced not only for companies but also for non-profit organisations that have lost revenue. We are giving targeted funds to Bris and Mind, and we also want government loan guarantees to apply to civil society organisations. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats stand up for civil society every day – not just in times of crisis. That is why the report before us proposes, among other things, that the legislative space for idea-based public partnership, known as the IOP, should be clarified. IOP is a model of collaboration between the public sector and the idea-driven sector with a social focus. The model works so that the parties identify a societal problem where the idea-based actor has a unique approach to the issue that cannot be achieved by any other public actor. Among other things, the IOP has been successful in combating violence in close relationships, in reducing homelessness and in strengthening the integration of new arrivals. By clarifying and clarifying the law around IOP linked to, for example, procurement, the use of the model is likely to increase. We Christian Democrats believe that it would contribute to greater interaction between civil society and the public in order to find innovative solutions to support people in social vulnerability. It would be valuable. Madam President, I would like I and the Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but I only support our reservation 18 under paragraph 13, which deals with doping issues. Sweden has historically been instrumental in anti-doping work, not least through Arne Ljungqvist, initiator and co-founder of the global organisation Wada, which works to keep sport clean from doping. One of the strongest positions in the so-called Wadakoden Code is that each country's anti-doping organisation should be independent and independent from the sports activities to be reviewed. Unfortunately, Sweden is one of the few countries in the world where the business is organisationally directly linked to the nation's national sports federation. This risks damaging the international credibility of our anti-doping work. It also prevents doping checks at gyms and in other sports associations and associations not affiliated to the National Sports Federation. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance that Sweden's anti-doping activities be completely independent from and organisationally independent of the National Sports Federation. I was therefore very happy when I read a press release from the Swedish Sports Federation just over a week ago. The title was:a time is ripe for an independent national anti-doping organization. It is a historic decision, and I now hope that the government will also support this reorganisation and, in addition, give Swedish Antidoping a broader public health prevention anti-doping mission. Madam President, I would like I hear quite often from people in general that it is not so important to have a strong preventive anti-doping work. The motive is that there are so few people who use anabolic steroids, for example, compared to how many people abuse alcohol or drugs. However, even if fewer people use anabolic steroids than other drugs, it must not be forgotten that these drugs can have very powerful side effects. I defended my doctoral thesis almost 20 years ago and was able to show in preclinical studies that anabolic steroids have severe negative effects on both the brain and behaviour. Among other things, we were able to confirm what had previously been anecdotal: greatly increased aggressiveness, moodiness and impulsiveness. The negative effects on both the brain and behaviour usually persisted for a long time after stopping treatment. There are basically three different groups using doping agents, and different efforts are needed to reduce the use of these products in different groups. It's about elite athletes, about guys who practice in gyms and about people in criminal circles. Those who suffer from the severe side effects are not least those who live close to those who abuse. For example, it may be girlfriends who get slapped or cuddled without warning for even a small matter. Of course, it creates a great insecurity in the relationship. When it comes to serious violent crimes, it can take care of a person who is affected by anabolic steroids and who stabs another person in the chest with a knife – not 1 or 2 times, but 40 or 60 times. The normal lock that should enter after the first stab is blown away. It is clearly important to prevent the use of doping drugs and then also outside elite sports. It is necessary to disseminate knowledge about the negative effects of doping substances. Some gyms can be a hazardous environment. Today, the City and Prodi Network is engaged in ambitious and successful anti-doping work with information campaigns and training of gym staff. However, the network has difficulty reaching out to all gyms, and we therefore propose doing just as in Denmark. It is mandatory by law to have a visible sticker indicating whether or not to cooperate with an anti-doping organisation. This would probably reduce the number of people who try and end up in an abuse of doping drugs. It is very important for the people themselves but also for the relatives and society at large.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-609	Madam President, I would like It's surreal to debate motions written months ago when we couldn't even imagine how the world would change overnight in the fight against an invisible enemy. But at the same time, this particular debate feels incredibly topical and relevant. In this report we are dealing with motions concerning civil society, sport and education. There are three areas whose importance for our society, and for what makes Swedish society unique, becomes most evident in these trying times. Civil society, sport and education are peoples' movements that for over a hundred years have formed, organized and engaged people and helped them grow. Madam President, I would like These activities bring together millions of Swedes on a daily basis. The sports organisations have around 3 million members, the various courses of adult education reach over 1 million people annually and civil society's 244,000 organisations engage around 53 percent of the Swedish population. These activities are the key to the cohesion of our country. By creating forums for people to meet, sport or learn together, these activities have taught us the importance of community, cooperation and trust. These are qualities that today are of paramount importance when trust in our authorities can be life-changing, when cooperation to help our fellow human beings in the new everyday problems is directly necessary and when we need a community to feel that we are going to do this together. The day-to-day activities of civil society, sport and education have also continued during the crisis. They have not cancelled; they have reset. They have changed to respond to the current reality. I could devote my entire speech to mentioning examples of all the wonderful things that are happening in these peoples' movements, but then we would be here for a long time. Instead, I stop by saying that every time our society has faced major challenges, the power of civil society has played a major role in how we manage the challenges and how well we then recover. That is why, Madam President, the Government's efforts to respond to the urgent needs of sport and education have been very important. SEK 500 million will be allocated to sport to support those activities that lose revenue as a result of the limitation of public events. It will go to associations that organize sports events, cups, sports races and matches at the elite level. The Government has also decided to support peoples' education actors in order to manage their expenses and will therefore pay out the contribution to peoples' education earlier. Due to increased educational needs in adults, folk high schools will receive SEK 76 million, including student funding, to create the equivalent of approximately 500 places at the folk high school. The study associations also contribute SEK 30 million for labour market-related actions at a distance to meet the need for adult skills development. This makes us stronger for the post-crisis period. Madam President, I would like As I said, in times of crisis, it becomes clearer how important a strong civil society is. But a strong civil society and strong popular movements must be built every day. In order for Swedish civil society to continue to be strong and develop, good and long-term conditions are of great importance. The same applies to sport and education. That is why, during the previous parliamentary term, the Red-Green Government has made a number of different efforts in these areas. For example, increased support to the sports movement by 258 million, as well as increased support to outdoor organisations by 20 million. In 2018, it has also invested in leisure activities for young people and in promoting idea-based providers of public-funded welfare, IOP, which has been developed. There was also an investigation that presented its proposal in December 2019, a work that the government continues to follow. Folkhögskolan has been expanded with 8,000 new places and so on. We Social Democrats will always protect all the bones on which these areas are based as a democracy school, as a voice carrier, as a place for people's commitment and interests, but also as an intelligent actor in welfare. For us, civil society, education and sport are important peoples' movements that together build our society stronger. It is a force that benefits our society every day and whose strength has greater added value when faced with difficult trials. With these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. I look forward to the next debate in which Roland Utbolt and I will once again be able to discuss the right to deduct gifts and leisure allowances. I wish him a quick recovery!
i-59de12953dc67ddf-623	Madam President, I would like I agree with the last thing the previous speaker said. The Coronapandemia has hit society as a whole hard and will probably continue to do so for a considerable time to come. We've all been affected one way or another. We keep our distance, and we wash our hands. Some are hit harder– of course most those who get ill purely healthily but also mentally. The economy is hitting companies and individuals. Government and parliament have taken strong action. Very large amounts of public money are now being allocated to mitigate the economic impact of the crisis. Support for individuals who lose their jobs, who need to be at home with children or to avoid the infection can be counted in many tens of billions of dollars. That is an enormous amount of money, but it can be compared to support for businesses and businesses where the billions are counted instead in the hundreds. Targeted support for civil society, i.e. culture and sport, has so far reached 1 billion. It could have been more, and likely there will be a need to provide additional resources. This billion will still be very useful. It'll make a difference. We are debating sport, among other things, today. The crisis is striking wide against both wide-ranging and elite sports, towards senior and children's and young people's sports. By now, the ever-Swedish football tournaments for ladies and gentlemen would have been in full swing. But the premieres are postponed. Perhaps the whole season will be cancelled, just like many of the small clubs' children's and youth tournaments, events, camps and more. These are events that are important and perhaps also crucial to the economy of associations. The targeted support for sport of SEK 500 million that has been announced and decided will now begin to be distributed through the Swedish Sports Federation to associations and special sports associations. It will be of great benefit not least to children and young people. It is important that the support now comes out quickly so that the activities can be maintained and so that we can continue to have an active and rich sporting life and a viable, community-driven sport for everyone throughout the country even after this crisis. It is important to see that the public takes responsibility together with the associations and the non-profit forces. Madam President, I would like The overall civil society is currently playing a very important role also in dealing with the crisis. The need for these very nonprofit forces is greater than usual. At the same time, we see that civil society organisations themselves are hit hard by the crisis. We see cancelled events that would normally fill the checkout for the non-profit associations. Valborg is cancelled, a festival that is usually extremely important for nonprofit Sweden. Secondhand stores and flea markets are closed. Association-owned courses are empty and unleaded. The Mayflowers will be sold over the Internet this year, and we can probably count on a sales rate. In the end it affects the children but also the many older ones who usually look forward to getting involved in the activities of the Mayflower, for example. Many of the individuals who support civil society belong to the risk groups, not least because of age, and therefore need to stay at home right now. That is why it is important for us to support civil society as a whole on the political side. Specific resources, as I have mentioned, have been set aside and will make a difference. However, it is also important to point out here that the association life will benefit from the broader support that has expired and that has perhaps mainly been communicated to the business community. It is important to take part in the reduction of employers' contributions, short-term lay-offs, rent discounts and other things in so far as the associations are able, but also to share in the billions of the special state subsidy that has been paid to the municipalities. It is important that it is communicated so that it becomes clear and that we, together, from here in the House also say so. It can be a bit difficult and a bit tricky for the associations to keep track of these new rules, but then it may be worth mentioning that the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, has a mission to coordinate civil society in this and be helpful so that the support really reaches out to these organisations too. Civil society is largely a bearer of democracy. It is a democracy that turns 100 during its term of office, and we celebrate that, but democracy is also under pressure and threats from many quarters. An ominous but clear trend is that civil society organisations lose equality. That, of course, touches democracy at the edge. Associations are becoming increasingly unequal in the fact that the membership phase, which is unfortunately taking place at the moment, is so much more visible among the socio-economically weaker groups. This is something that we in politics have to think about and formulate measures against. This trend is also likely to be accelerated by the current crisis. Madam President, I would like This debate is also about the education of the people. Like civil society and the rest of the educational system – universities, colleges, adult education and so on – adult education, i.e. folk high schools and study associations, will be an important part of the transition needed as a result of the crisis. Unemployed people are also welcomed into education and training, and the government has provided funds for expanding the number of places. I also believe that peoples' education will be at the heart of the inevitable debate that must be conducted around what society we want when the crisis is over. The Corona crisis has shown very clearly that the way we live our lives is not sustainable. This has been pointed out by the Green Party for a very long time. We have usually pointed out that this planet on which we live and live does not actually manage our way of life, our consumption and our use of resources. The environment is damaged. The climate is changing. Temperature's rising. Biodiversity is declining at high speed. It is also likely that pandemics will become more common if we do not change our lifestyle. How do we face it? The post-corona debate is about, and must be about, whether we should live with or continue to live against the conditions of the planet and nature. That's where I and the Green Party have chosen sides. It is now up to all, not least politicians in this Assembly and the political parties, to choose sides. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I've been running out of time. I support the committee's proposal in the report and thank you for the debate.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-642	Madam President, I would like When you conduct a debate like this in the Swedish Parliament with a lot of members of parliament and people who devote every day to politics, in this case cultural politics, it is easy to become a little self-centered and believe that the world and Sweden revolve around us in this Chamber and around the state in different ways. It's just the opposite. It may sound like civil society is a complement to the state, to the municipality, to the county council or the region. In fact, however, it is the state and what we are doing here that is complementary to civil society. Civil society – sport, public education, actually democracy – which we have here in Sweden has been built up from below by individuals who around Sweden, across the country, have chosen to engage voluntarily in groups. It has been built from below by people who wanted to take power over their own lives and their own life situation. That's what society is. Actually, it's strange that we're talking about civil society – that's what society is. What we are doing here, to ensure that there is security through the functioning of the judiciary, is that there should not be things in the way of civil society. The fact that we make sure with politics that there is care in Sweden is in order for people to survive and live their lives and have power. It is never about anything other than complementing what people build themselves. We also see in the post-crisis crisis – it has been raised by several others in the debate – that civil society is the one who is in charge. Not only is it civil society that in different ways and in different nuances throughout history has built everything we have in terms of democracy in this country. It is also civil society that stands up when the complement to the state is not enough. But there are a lot of things that can get better. The situation of civil society, of sport and of civilisation, is not always as we want it to be. Here and now, of course, there's a crisis. You may not have the same sale of hot dogs as you usually have. You may not have the same rental of premises, of course farms. You may not have the same small but still income to the business that usually ticks in from the second hand shop. So support may be needed here and now. We are, of course, open to more support and to discuss it. Above all, however, the support we have provided really needs to reach out to those who need it. There is also a need for a long-term discussion, a discussion on how civil society conditions can be strengthened and improved in the long term. Just as so often in society as a whole, it is a matter of the state with different regulations, rules and long processes and tax rules having to stop standing in the way of people who want to be involved in funding, building, further developing and engaging in civil society. I would like to endorse our Amendment No 5, which deals with the concept of public partnership. It is part of building a strong civil society and therefore a strong society in the longer term. Madam President, I would like As I am jumping into this debate for a colleague and late reporting, I do not have much more time, but I would like to say something about sports policy. It will be important to strengthen parasports, to change noise rules so that kids can sport and to build our societies, such as our cities, in a better way so that we get more spontaneous sport.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-653	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 17 on reading promotion measures for children and young people. We also have a special opinion. In the midst of the war, Winston Churchill was severely criticised in Parliament for spending so much money on culture. He replied: What else would we have to fight for? Today we are also trying to fight in a war against an invisible little evil that affects our lives day and night, a nightmare of health and economy. What if the creators of culture succumb to the crisis? If culture simply does not fit into the square bureaucratic crisis packages? Then cultural policy objectives do not play a major role, because then there is no creativity, diversity or artistic quality left to protect. The Swedish social security system is largely based on people being employed, working five days a week all year round and having five to six weeks' vacation. Cultural workers rarely work that way. A majority of cultural creators are self-employed and often income varies greatly over the years. Artists' conditions are often short assignments, involuntary entrepreneurship – even where freedom of choice must prevail – and precarious employment conditions. When today's freelancers and others who have an individual firm are forced to put their firms dormant in order to obtain the right to unemployment benefit, they are not allowed to keep in touch with customers, invoice individual assignments or keep their inventory. The uphill will be very heavy when this Coronamar dream comes to an end. Madam President, I would like A quiet question: When does the government present proposals to the Riksdag that take a holistic approach to social security for entrepreneurs regardless of their activity and form of association? Madam President, I would like For us Moderates, it is obvious that the distance of arm's length between politics and the practitioners of culture means the most fundamental thing, that is, that art should be free and protected from political mischievousness. The arm's length approach must be a reality. The state should not go in and make conditions, that is to say, govern art and the free institutions, no matter how well-pleased one has ambitions. How should we politicians relate to arm's length when we decide in all other policy areas? The freedom of culture must always prevail. It is therefore worrying that many creators testify to the fact that cultural contributions are conditional on politically correct ambitions and that they must be created on the basis of certain parameters. Then the coat tends to shrink to a thumbmethott. Culture is not a pipe of its own, but it is the kitt that holds us people together. I've stood here many times and said that. That is what is cross-sectoral, and that is why we should be much better at working cross-sectorally with culture as a bridge builder. Madam President, I would like The Moderates protect municipal libraries and their work with digitalisation, among other things as an important tool for reaching new groups. Reading is the basis for a child's linguistic and intellectual development. Therefore, the promotion of reading needs to be strengthened. The competence of the children's librarian strengthens the language learning of smaller children in various educational ways. Good reading ability is the key to successful schooling and understanding of other school subjects. Good reading ability is power. It creates opportunities for the rest of life. Language learning is also about the right of all children and young people to know, and reading has its own value. Through literature, children are given the opportunity to discover and explore worlds other than their own. Reading can arouse curiosity and invite reflection on identity, both one's own and others'. Madam President, I would like We Moderates prioritise the efforts of libraries to reach children who may not have books at home or come from otherwise vulnerable environments. One way to do this is to strengthen cooperation between municipal libraries and schools. In times of disinformation and fake news, knowledge of source trust is needed. Libraries and media and information technologies have never been more important than they are today. There is nothing to prevent public libraries from being combined with school libraries, but it is essential that the various competences and assignments for public libraries and school libraries are clarified and maintained. Children's and young people's access to various cultural expressions, such as creating yourself or seeing good performing arts, is important. I would like once again to highlight the focus of Sörmland's children and young people, who since the 1970s have enabled all children between the ages of 5 and 15 to see two performances per year through the school. I am provoked by cultural plans that finely describe the importance of culture for children and young people but do not show it in concrete action. Assitej, the organisation for performing arts for children and young people, highlights Norway's excellent model, where children and young people are really put in focus in cultural life. Perhaps this would also be something for Sweden. Finally, Madam President, I would like to point out that the infrastructure of the cultural sector is extremely important to safeguard at this time of concern. When cultural support is paid out, interaction with the regions must take place and the model of cultural cooperation must be used.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-670	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 12, Culture throughout the country. In this report we are debating culture for all. In these difficult times, it is highly topical to highlight the importance of an accessible culture throughout the country, for all citizens. Many older people are currently completely isolated due to covid-19. In 2011, the Government initiated a one-off initiative on culture for the elderly. The Swedish Democrats believe that this initiative should be extended so that older people continue to be able to participate in cultural life. Similarly, it is important to encourage associations to give older people the opportunity to exercise sport. Research shows, among other things, that cultural consumption and practice have a major impact on people's well-being and health in general and are of great importance for the rehabilitation of certain diseases. The right to culture is a fundamental pillar for us people, and it is therefore important to ensure that older people too are allowed to participate in culture in different ways. Regardless of socio-economic factors and geographical location, everyone must have equal opportunities to participate in art and culture. By giving priority to further research and development in this area and through concrete activities, the regions of the country should acknowledge the health-promoting characteristics of culture. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats value the Nordic language understanding highly. It is a key factor in the Nordic Community and Nordic cooperation. A well-functioning understanding of languages facilitates both trade and labour market integration and cultural and educational cooperation. In the Nordic Council, which I am part of, it is an important principle to encourage communication in the Nordic languages during joint meetings and sessions, which helps to strengthen language understanding between parliamentarians. However, we can note that the Nordic language understanding is in a very vulnerable position as it declines among younger generations and the Swedish position in Finland declines. It is important to emphasise the uniqueness and value of the Nordic languages, but at the same time to promote increased efforts to strengthen and improve the Nordic language understanding from an early age. The Nordic countries in school is a tool that school classes in the Nordic countries can use, where they work with neighbouring language teaching. Speech and listening comprehension are in focus, with tools that enable students to use their Nordic language skills with other students from the rest of the Nordic region. Efforts like this are something we defend, and our ambition is that language promotion efforts should become a more central part of education. Language is the main means of communication in our society. Therefore, language is an integral part of culture, and language is alive and changing by nature. The task of the Language Council is not only to monitor the development of the language, but also to work to maintain a certain level of linguistic uniformity across the country and to preserve linguistic independence. Our ambition is therefore that the Language Council should take on the role of ensuring that language is not a barrier to communication in the country, taking into account local language variations and the organic development of the language. Madam President, I would like As far as the Sami languages are concerned, we have several proposals. Sami culture and the Sami languages have been challenged and repressed throughout history. Despite this, however, Sami culture and languages persist, but their existence is not secure for the future as few live in and convey cultural variations and speak languages. Language and culture go hand in hand, and the South Sami language and culture are particularly vulnerable. We believe that there is a need to establish, with the other Nordic countries with Sami populations, a common Sami language centre to secure Sami education and research. We also want to explore the possibilities for measures to ensure the survival and management of the South Sami people and to raise the status of the language. Madam President, I would like An important issue also related to the language area is a national responsibility for the International Library in Stockholm. In the spring of 2019, the government of the City of Stockholm announced its intention to scale down and reorganize the International Library at Odenplan in a radical way. Today it is in the annex to Stockholm City Library and currently has 200,000 books in more than 100 languages. The library is staffed with multilingual staff and also serves as a national resource for other multilingual libraries around the country. In 2019, the government of the City of Stockholm announced that the library's collections and staff will be distributed and part of the library will be moved, which can be seen as a closure of current operations. This issue is a municipal matter, but supply and competence are a national matter. We therefore want to investigate whether the activities can not be secured under a government-funded national principal, such as the Royal Library. We believe that in many respects this is a national issue that requires long-term and secure funding. As far as our libraries are concerned, there have been reports of disturbances in libraries around the country in recent years. In some cases, our libraries are no longer perceived as a safe environment for the acquisition of knowledge. In addition, the unrest also affects the working environment of those who work there. It is extremely important that libraries are a safe environment for those who work and study there. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the government to instruct the relevant authorities, actors, institutions and organisations to develop an action plan for how the library environment can be secured as a safe and peaceful study environment, while at the same time the library can continue to be an open and accessible space. To conclude, I want to return to the Nordic perspective. The Danish bourgeois government decided a number of years ago, with the support of the Danish People's Party, to allow seven committees to begin work on producing proposals for works that could be regarded as a particularly valuable part of the Danish cultural heritage and together form a Danish cultural cannon. The main purpose of the cultural cannon was to serve as an introduction to the Danish cultural heritage and to stimulate thought and debate on art and culture issues. The project breathed life into the Danish cultural debate and raised cultural policy to a position on the political and media agenda that it had never before been close to. In connection with the decision on the Danish cultural cannon, the then Danish Minister of Education proposed that a joint Nordic literature cannon be developed. With some of the world's most famous works in literature, music and art, there are many opportunities to create a Nordic cultural cannon. A Nordic cultural cannon would further highlight the Nordic treasure of works and contribute to the formation of people about Sweden and our Nordic neighbours and contribute to the promotion of Scandinavian language understanding.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-687	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I choose here to apply only for reservation 13. Madam President, I would like Through culture and free social life, we have the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. We develop our creativity through encounters with the unexpected. It has become easier to spread culture, and the opportunity for participation is now greater than ever when the digital society has become a part of our everyday lives. With digital technology, much culture and knowledge has become available to so many more. Not least these days we see how culture and creativity take place via the digital platforms. It does not replace the culture you experience on the ground or physically participate in, but it becomes a complement and an additional expression. With the opportunities provided by digitalisation, it also gives more opportunities to find an expression that suits them, while creating companies, jobs and export income. I want to make it clear that culture has its own value, but it also contributes much more, not least to creativity. Sweden has successful creative and cultural industries, but many of them have a hard time in these times. The government is making efforts to alleviate the crisis. But it is the creativity of entrepreneurs that will be crucial for the continued development of the industries. Increased interaction on cultural issues between politics, business and committed enthusiasts can create increased conditions for jobs as well as for local and regional development, attractiveness and tourism, knowledge development and new export successes. With creativity we grow as individuals but also as a society. Engagement that thrives in cultural life, civil society and debate is tick that connects our society. Therefore, the goal of the Center Party is for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, to have the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that includes both professional culture and amateur creation. Culture strengthens self-confidence and makes more people take advantage of freedom of expression. It in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. It is therefore important that there is a wide range of culture throughout the country. This is also the way to create the conditions for a new thinking and sharp cultural life. Not least, it is vital that all children face many different cultural expressions, so that they can find their own expressions. It also creates a breeding ground for education to carry with it through life. Madam President, I would like In order to enhance cultural life throughout the country, the Center Party wants to strengthen and develop the cultural cooperation model. We also want the regions, in cooperation with the national level, to develop a national cultural plan – we could call it a national cultural cooperation model. At the same time, national cultural institutions need to disseminate their activities even more and make them more accessible throughout the country. Another way of creating both national and international interest in our cultural life is something I have talked about several times in this House, namely the establishment of a system for a national Capital of Culture year. The idea is that a Swedish municipality or city receives the status of national capital of culture every two years. Then smaller municipalities, towns and cities can also get attention and a chance to show off and especially develop their cultural life. But, Madam President, without free artists, writers, musicians and cultural workers, there is no free and developing cultural life to showcase. In order to ensure artistic freedom, art needs to be protected from direct influence when paid for by the public, i.e. what is commonly called the principle of arm's length. But there is also a need for models for public and private collaboration in these contexts, so that arm's length also applies there. From the Center Party we like to see opportunities for sponsorship of culture where artistic freedom is protected at the same time. There are also many ways to improve conditions for cultural workers. Support to secure and increase the availability of community space throughout the country provides, for example, the opportunity for cultural creators in theatre, music and literature to get assignments and reach new groups. Creative school also gives assignments to cultural workers all over the country. At the same time, many cultural workers are entrepreneurs and freelancers. The Center Party here sees the need to improve the opportunities for these in terms of, for example, taking part in social security. Not least, we have seen the need for this in the current situation of our society. Here we can also see that the performing arts alliances are a form that should be developed. Madam President, I would like The importance of civil society in protecting, nurturing and, not least, developing national minority languages is very large and important. But this is not just about language, but also about the opportunities and development of national minorities at large, where several non-profit organisations are doing important work. The fact that these idea-based organisations have good conditions for carrying out their activities is of great importance for the minority policy decided by the Swedish Parliament to be implemented in practice. It is important and important to ensure that the rights of national minorities, which are part of the international framework for the protection of human rights, are also respected here in Sweden. We need to be systematic in this work with a long-term and perseverance in order to achieve the objective of safeguarding the rights of national minorities. It is therefore important that this also leads to concrete implementation of the policy. One example is the establishment of a meänkiel at the centre of support for the meänkiel in speaking. Here we want to review the possibility of setting up a language centre and resource library for meänkieli – a collective activity that can be located in Övertorneå.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-703	Madam President, I would like When I read some of the exercises that I and others wrote in the hall early last autumn, I can almost get the feeling that they were written ten years ago. So much has happened in our society in the last few weeks that you find it hard to find back to the feeling that existed before. It is not easy to feel the same commitment to issues that were very important just a few months ago. But the issues that should be included under the heading Culture for All are more relevant than ever. I read in the Left Party's two motions on cultural issues and see that the needs and problems raised have then been strengthened, exacerbated and exposed to the whole of society. These are uncertain conditions for free groups, poorly adapted social security, high responsibility for non-profit associations, the importance of libraries in the area and efforts to increase digitalisation. It turned out that the inadequate safety net that I have often mentioned was hardly any net at all. It was mostly large holes, barely composed of thin threads. It took only a few days with warnings about general spread of infection and audience restrictions, so a large part of Kultursverige was without income. The slogan Culture for All was in danger of becoming culture for no one, now that we most need the help of culture to interpret the present, feel, amuse, worry and be touched. But it's not all night black. We quickly saw that there were sparkles of light. Online opera and children's theatre and concerts were offered digitally – older performances and also live performances. Amateurs and professionals found new ways to reach out, to keep expressing themselves and creating. Sometimes you get paid, but often you don't. But we also see how the turnout from the population has been strong. There have been tickets and annual cards bought. It has been swishats and shared. In the midst of the crisis, we are seeing each other and what is important. Expressing oneself through art is a fundamental human right. Every artistic expression is unique and an important part of the society we live in. The result of artistic creation cannot be equated with ordinary goods and services but has a specific dimension. Market forces alone cannot guarantee that there is a diversity of cultural expressions – either locally, regionally, nationally or internationally. The main responsibility for this lies with general and cultural policy as a whole. Conditions must therefore be provided for everyone to have the opportunity to develop their creative capacity and to be active participants on equal terms in cultural life. We must not lose hope and visions. After rain comes sunshine, and after crisis there must be major structural changes. The central question for the Left Party is how we can create a cultural life for all and not just for a few. That is why we need to make culture accessible through strong institutions, a rich non-profit cultural association and good conditions for free professional artists. We must give our cultural practitioners the opportunity to live as good a life as others in our country. If Sweden is going to live up to 1 cap. Section 2 The form of government, which actually states that the individual's cultural well-being should be one of the three fundamental objectives of public activity, and if we are to achieve the cultural policy objectives of creativity, diversity and artistic quality that shape the development of society, those who create culture and art must be given good conditions – and that throughout the country. It is a great challenge to succeed with it in such a sparsely populated country as Sweden. The free groups carry a large part of the cultural offering offered in smaller towns. They tour community gardens and schools' gymnasiums. They hunt contributions from all sides and will then present the same performance to a number of instances. It is also usually difficult for them to insure themselves against obsessive notions when someone becomes ill. They are employers who, from one year to another, can stand entirely without state aid and who then have very little opportunity to carry out planned activities. We see that better conditions are needed for the free groups. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 8. However, cultural policy cannot remove all the obstacles to creating good conditions and reaching out to culture throughout the country. It is also very much about social security issues, such as health insurance rules, the care of sick children and the possibility of unemployment benefit. And it is very much about entrepreneurship issues. It has become apparent to more and more people that we have poor insurance cover for many groups in our society. Many one-man or smaller companies in the cultural sector have no margins. It has also become clearer which crowd of different professions is needed to achieve a performance. As a spectator you often have a focus on the artist and the ensemble. Maybe you know who's a director or choreographer. But we don't usually see all the technical staff, all the small businesses that rent equipment, lights and sounds and those who do everything behind the scenes. It's a delicate ecosystem. If the audience disappears, far more will be affected than we might think at first sight. Now the government has listened to us in the Left Party, for example, when it comes to improvements in the unemployment fund and a halt to dividends in companies that want support for short-term lay-off – to name a few questions. I also think that the government has had a good dialogue with large parts of the cultural sector. Unfortunately, however, the 500 million will not go very far, given how many have been affected so far and how many will continue to suffer as the disastrous situation will actually last a long time. That is why the Left Party has put forward eight proposals to supplement the government's policy. For example, we want targeted support for the regions' cultural budgets through the model of cultural cooperation. We propose additional money to the Arts Council, the Arts Board and the Authors' Fund. And we see that the alliances and the center formations need to be supplemented. In addition, many people may need support to implement digitisation efforts right now. We also highlight increased access to library services as important to help people at risk get in touch with libraries. In total, there will be proposals for around 1 billion more than for the government's proposals. These are initiatives that would have been needed in the past but which are now very urgent. I would therefore like to take the opportunity today, when we debate culture for all, to reach out to the government on these proposals.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-715	Mr. Old President! Sweden's cultural life is under severe pressure because of the coronapandemia. Cultural actors are fighting for their survival, and cultural heritage risks being lost forever. At the same time, the need for culture is greater than ever at a time like this. Culture can help and bring relief to the crisis. Many turn to literature, film, and music during their responsible home sitting time. Culture plays a major role in people's well-being. It is an inexhaustible source of thoughts, feelings and fellowships, which ultimately shape who we are as individuals and fellow humans. Many people use music services, TV streaming and books online for comfort, entertainment and the opportunity to think about something else for a while. Concerts, performances, festivals, art rounds and book readings – the list can be made long – are events on which cultural creators depend for their livelihoods. They are now cancelled because of the risk of transmission. Mr. Old President! Culture arises in the meeting between people and is created by us together. Culture is not static but something living that is constantly changing. We are all co-creators of culture, but we are also shaped by it. Our way of thinking and even speaking are signs of our culture. Culture gives us meaning in the present, but culture also bears our historical roots and gives birth to visions of the future. Culture is, in its broadest sense, intangible. It cannot and should not be governed by political decisions. Culture is challenging. It helps to broaden one's own reality and imagination. It can help us grow as empathetic and sympathetic people. In other words, it is a vital part of society and community. Culture, like morality, holds together communities. It is involved in creating the conditions for a good society. The task of politics is to contribute to a more dynamic cultural life. The aim is to support without governing and to give people the opportunity to develop in their free cultural life. Arm length has been mentioned here, and there is something important about it. The conditions of culture do not depend solely on the public. Both business and non-profit activities have an enormous impact on cultural life. In order to broaden culture and find new ways of financing cultural life, it is of the utmost importance that the opportunities for business to act in cultural life be developed. Not least now under the coronapndemin, the opportunities for industry to sponsor culture and the right of deduction for the purchase of art need to be reviewed. Mr. Old President! I support the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, in particular to No 6 on the remuneration of artists. Culture provides added value and will reach all people. It is therefore important that the artists and cultural creators who create the works of art, pieces of music, dance works and books that we all have the opportunity to enjoy are given decent living conditions and opportunities to practice their art without having to stand on the brink of ruin economically. Even before the coronapandemy, many artists found it difficult to make a living. Forms of support and conditions of insurance are not adapted to the specific working conditions and life situation of artists. In order to achieve cultural freedom and diversity in Sweden, these shortcomings in the system need to be addressed and adjusted. The so-called MU agreement is about participation and exhibition compensation for artists. It is a framework agreement for artists' remuneration for participation in exhibitions. It works very well in many respects but needs to be developed. It is binding on the state, and many municipalities apply it. But many more should be there. We Christian Democrats protect copyright. It is an exclusive right for those who have created a work to be responsible for it and be involved in deciding how to use it. But the artist's wishes have not always been possible to meet, despite the copyright owner's personal will, which has to do with how the agreement is designed. We Christian Democrats believe that this needs to be reviewed, with a view to making the rules more flexible and with the interests of cultural creators closely monitored, especially as the labour market of artists differs from the situation of many others. If permanent employment is the common feature of the labour market at large, jobs in the cultural sector are usually temporary, and unemployment was high even before the pandemic. Now you find other ways to come out with your creation, but the compensations are uncertain. It is also good that culture finds new ways to reach out to new people, who may not usually take part in culture. Culture becomes more accessible to more people, even if it is in a different way, for example from home to your own sofa. Mr. Old President! More measures are needed for the survival of cultural practitioners. Sweden needs a rich cultural life, even after the pandemic.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-727	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the Culture for All report. It's a headline whose spirit sense feels far away these days. The Corona crisis has hit the cultural sector hard. Cultural workers find it difficult to do their work and lose income, museums have closed, cinemas have closed, many events have been cancelled, libraries have cancelled literature performances and our most popular attractions, such as Skansen, testify to a tough financial situation. When the consequences of the Corona crisis became clear, the government was therefore early in presenting a 1 billion package of support for culture and sport. The package is designed to mitigate the worst consequences of the crisis. This money will now be distributed. The crisis has reminded us of the importance of the digital transformation for the cultural sector. With digital solutions, for example, Young Klara has been able to make their performances available to children and young people even during these days. Artists have arranged digital concerts, authors have had book readings and more and more businesses see how they can set up to continue to reach their audience through digital solutions. This shows the importance of continuing to invest in digitalisation and broadband throughout the country, which the government has long prioritised and which is becoming particularly important today for our sector as well. Culture is an important part of our society. Culture brings unique values to humans, provides perspectives on and understanding of their own life and the world around them, thus contributing to the development of both individuals and communities. Therefore, professional cultural life, performers and the various cultural institutions are important. Without culture, society becomes poorer, as we are clearly reminded today. Suddenly we realize how important part of our everyday life different cultural experiences have been. It is something we have been able to look forward to, something that has helped us to leave everyday life and something that we have been able to share with loved ones. Helping the cultural sector through this crisis is therefore a long-term investment in the future. For us Social Democrats, access to culture and leisure is a measure of the well-being of a society. A society that sees the value of culture and is able to work to build a functioning infrastructure for culture has invested in the long term both in its population and in the development of society. We therefore want to make our cultural institutions accessible to all, because it is not only about offering a cultural experience but also about forming and educating about our history and cultural context in order to create a better understanding of our present with the help of these institutions. It is against this background that the Red-Green Government has, during two terms of office, invested heavily in culture and libraries. The government has increased the cultural budget by SEK 745 million. This is the biggest increase ever and took place during the last parliamentary term. The government has also reintroduced free admission to state museums, invested in music and culture schools to enable lower fees, invested in free art and improved the conditions of cultural professionals, and invested in libraries and reading promotion efforts. Sweden needs more, not less, creativity to solve the complex challenges we face. Investment in culture creates a richer and stronger society and paves the way for new jobs, both within and outside the creative industries. Mr. Old President! We need to support culture during these days but also continue to have a conscious policy for an independent and vibrant cultural sector in the future and after the Corona crisis. With these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-737	Mr. Old President! Culture for All is the title of today's report. Art and culture are vital to us humans. Literature, images, music, performing arts and all other culture are fundamental to what it means to be human. It is therefore clear to us Greens that culture has a natural place in our society. The motions debated today were written in a different time, before the Corona crisis. Now we are in the midst of the crisis and see with concern how much of cultural life has stopped, almost from one day to another. What has taken decades to build up risks being badly damaged in a couple of critical months. My thoughts go particularly to all artists who continue to create despite the nagging concern about whether the rent can be paid on time and whether cancelled assignments will be replaced by new ones. It is a critical time for art and culture. Unless the basic structures of cultural life can be maintained now, they will not be able to be rebuilt once the crisis is over. Therefore, cultural life must be maintained and protected during the current crisis. Mr. Old President! We cannot allow cultural life to perish before our eyes, for it is art that helps us to put words on the changed world around us — a world that many find surreal today. Here I would like to quote the chief curator of the Moderna Museet, Gitte Ørskou: As our world view slides out of its solid and orderly template, we are looking for new images for a condition that we have never experienced before. The images created by artists throughout history, which we now suddenly recall, can give us a temporary stop: Edward Hopper's lonely figures in abandoned urban landscapes reflect even the images of deserted streets from all over the world that are now flourishing on the internet that has become our only window to the world. ..................................................... When Andrea Bocelli performed four songs in the empty cathedral in Milan during Easter, he sang not only for Italy, but also for the whole world. Music has such a power that it unites us people wherever we are – this time in the pain of all those who have lost the fight against the disease, hopefully in joy that we have overcome it. Mr. Old President! I could have talked long and well about different arts and what they mean to us humans. But time is short, and I would like to draw the light on cultural life, which is currently struggling not to bleed out when we have to cope with all the important restrictions and recommendations. Cultural life consists of small and large actors who arrange performing arts, concerts, festivals, readings, film shows, performances and much more – everything from concerts that attract audiences in the tens of thousands to the small independent theatre group or the freelance visual artist and author. It is about art halls, music scenes, museums, galleries, libraries and many more cultural institutions. However, we must not forget that the cultural sector is largely also composed of freelancers, self-employed workers and combinators. It is people who are dependent on temporary assignments and who have had it struggling already before but who now see their livelihood being torn away from one day to another. This, of course, leads to a decline in the supply of culture. We in the Green Party have developed several different proposals to improve the economic and social conditions of artists and cultural creators. We await with interest the Government's response to the Artists Policy Report – regardless of the conditions? to be presented in the autumn. However, in the acute phase, it is a joint responsibility of political parties to ensure that the sector is protected so that cultural life can flourish once the crisis has passed. The Swedish Parliament has previously decided to allocate the cultural area SEK 500 million for activities that lose income as a result of the crisis. These funds will be allocated by expert authorities and will be used, among others, to organisers in the cultural field, both large and small, and to actors in the film field, in particular to cinemas and film festivals. Individual freelance cultural creators are also covered by the grants. It is precisely the organiser stage that is important for creating jobs for artists. It is also of great importance for art to reach the whole country. In addition to this SEK 500 million, crisis packages and reforms have been launched in other areas that benefit the cultural sector, such as reduced social security contributions and reduced rental costs. For freelancers, mention is made of the end of the Karen Day in health insurance, as well as the relaxation of the rules in order to obtain unemployment benefit. For those freelancers who run their business in corporate form, which is a large proportion, it can be mentioned that in 2020 cultural creators can lay down their business dormant more than once and thus also be able to get unemployment benefit without having to permanently close down their business. For us in the Green Party, it is obvious that creative people should not be passive. We want those who have a company dormant to be able to apply for new assignments by, for example, updating in social media. Mr. Old President! The whole cultural life is affected by the crisis we are in. With this temporary support system, we are convinced that the money will be able to reach those most in need of support. At the same time, we are aware that the needs will continue to be great. None of us could have foreseen the pandemic we have now. But we can use it as a driving force to create a better society with an even stronger cultural policy with better conditions for cultural creators and more culture for all. Together, we must ensure that the cultural sector can resume its important role as the aesthetic, sometimes critical, viewer and depictor of society and man. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-753	Mr. Old President! An unusual thing in coronatides is that everyone suddenly agrees with liberal cultural politicians that arm-length distance is important. Let us hope that this continues after the Corona crisis, at least in cultural policy. Mr. Old President! When it comes to artistic freedom and access to culture, it is really crucial that you learn culture as a language – both of course that you learn language through culture and that you learn your own language that culture actually is – in order to grow as a human being. And the growth of people is crucial to the growth of society. Now that we are in this crisis, and many people who usually work with culture in different ways see their activities threatened, one can only be impressed by the enormous creativity that we see around the country in finding new ways to come out with their culture and find new ways to survive until this crisis is over. But that's not enough. Mr. Old President! If you look at, for example, the support that Parliament has decided on, they are not always adapted to the structures of activities that work with culture. The structures surrounding activities in the cultural sector are quite often different from those of so-called ordinary companies outside the cultural sector. We must ensure that the conditions for free cultural life, both short-term and long-term, are as good as possible. It is a question of ensuring that many of the proposals of the Social Insurance Committee become a political reality. Of course, it's about the Artistic Policy Investigation. It is also a question of the aid that we have decided on here in the acute crisis actually coming out of the activities in the way that they are supposed to do. Mr. Old President! I would like to dwell a little on our reservation 18, to which I commend it. It's about reading promotion. For a liberal, this is incredibly important. We do not think that the most important way to ensure that people can make class trips and for their own machines can make a trip in their own lives is to have huge treasures and make sure that people cannot get rich, but to make sure that people get the tools to be able to decide for themselves over their own lives. Social and educational capital must then be balanced, but also cultural capital. The ability both to learn one's own language, of course, and to speak through different types of cultural expressions, to understand the culture we live in and understand other cultural expressions, is crucial for people to gain power over their own lives and be able to make class trips without an overly large and coercive tax state. Then, Mr President-in-Office, we must ensure that the promotion of reading is strengthened among all the young people in Sweden and perhaps even among the elderly. We will take advantage of both the Reading Delegation's proposal and the proposal for a new national library strategy. They should form the basis for an offensive policy in this area. Mr. Old President! In times like these, the Pesten has once again crept up on the sales ban lists, and families around the country may gather around the board game Pandemic. I would like to conclude by saying that culture is actually one of our best tools for understanding ourselves and understanding the time we live in.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-760	Mr. Old President! Sweden and the world are in an unprecedented situation. It is a new type of crisis in which, in order to stay together, we must be kept separate. The rise of the Corona virus has put life on the back of many people. Many people remain isolated in quarantine, many get sick, too many get seriously ill and only in Sweden have horrifyingly several thousand had to put their lives to death. This invisible enemy moving in the midst of us is both frightening and despicable. Many are making great efforts to ease the pain and save lives, not least our admirable healthcare and care staff. They risk their own life and health to care for and save the lives of others. The respect these people deserve can hardly be described with words. Mr. Old President! We know we're going to defeat the Corona virus. Even if everything at the moment feels far from normal, the normal will return. We will be able to hang out with friends and hug family again, and high school students and students will be able to go to lessons and lectures again. Office colleagues will be able to see each other for real again – not just through the many fucked-up videoconferencing. We know that normal is coming back, but what the return to normal will be like is what is at stake right now. Unfortunately, the Red-Green Government has neither been skilful nor fast enough in its work to counter the damaging effects of the crisis. Disinterest and meekness are distressing. Mr. Old President! It is now politics – the state – must act to save as many jobs and businesses as is possible. It is now, not since, that we can ensure that the return to normal is as mild as possible. Entrepreneurs, such as our many cultural creators, desperately cry out for help in order to overwinter and survive this crisis. In one of the world's most highly taxed countries, which is, of course, Sweden, one could have expected our joint insurance company the government would deliver. The answers that our country's entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs receive from the government are not good enough. Speaking of the fact that, in this debate, we are dealing with the Committee on Culture's motion report on film and public service, I am sorry to say that many of Sweden's cinemas, for example, are about to end in the crisis we are now experiencing. People stay at home, and conventions of more than 50 are banned. Biovisits have in principle ceased. From being a relatively prosperous market, there is no longer any market at all. In this situation, some lay-off possibilities are not enough for staff or for you to borrow back your own tax payments. Among other things, the fixed local costs do not disappear because the audience does. If we want to keep the cinemas, not least in our smaller cities and towns, financial support must be increased considerably. Mr. Old President! The cinema crisis is just one example of those cultural nodes that are at risk of being completely eliminated by the Corona virus. The country's cultural creators and cultural promoters are, in many cases, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and like so many other companies, they are very hard hit by this crisis. We Moderates have therefore proposed that the state should act more forcefully to overcome the crisis for all these otherwise well-ordered small and large companies. A crisis package of SEK 100 billion a month for at least two months is needed. Our good finances are there to be used in crisis situations – let us now use the strength of the economy to save what can be saved! The option is worse and ultimately much more expensive for Sweden's taxpayers. Mr. Old President! However, when, in these times, one is able to lift one's eye from the current reporting on the crisis, one can nevertheless see that there are a number of measures that must later be taken in terms of both film policy and Swedish public service. Among other things, it is understood that the illegal circulation of film in the long term is a major threat to the film as an art. Although streaming services and other services provide us with smooth and legal options to watch movies and comics, the illegal spread continues to undermine the industry's funding. If people stop paying to watch films, it undermines the industry's ability to live and develop as free art. Sweden needs a coherent and well-thought-out policy to address this growing problem. We want the government to set up an investigation tasked with drawing up a coherent and long-term strategy, and I therefore call for our moderate reservation No 2 to be approved, which proposes this very thing. Mr. Old President! The principle principle of Moderates is to safeguard a high-quality public service. However, we believe that future reform should move towards a narrower and sharper public service. We believe that this is a necessity for meeting a modern media market in the future. We will come back with sharp proposals for a public service that must be a qualitative complement to the rest of the media offering – not a competitor. Mr. Old President! Despite these gloomy days, there is hope for a return to normality. There is hope for a better future. But politics cannot be a passive spectator who only hopes for the best, but more needs to be done now – as a matter of urgency – to save Swedish jobs and companies, including in our important and so appreciated cultural industries. In these times it feels right even for me to recall what Churchill so wisely said to all those who criticized that, in the midst of world wars, he wanted to protect culture: What else would we have to fight for?
i-59de12953dc67ddf-774	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. The impact of the Corona virus on the cultural sector and the consequences of many of the necessary measures against it are numerous and serious. One area that has been severely affected is the film industry. It may be that many are more at home watching films and comics via Netflix, HBO and other stream nings services in quarantine times, but film viewing in cinemas has been particularly devastating. Media such as SVT have reported that the number of cinema visits has decreased by nearly 100 percent during selected weeks during the Corona crisis compared to the corresponding weeks in 2019. This is, of course, a consequence of the fact that the biggest chain, Filmstaden, has closed temporarily. What is now at stake is not just the survival of individual cinemas but the cinema culture as such in Sweden. The harsh situation of cinemas, in turn, also affects other parts of the film industry, such as the actors who gain revenue from their films appearing in cinemas as viewing windows. The fact that Sweden's biomoms have quadrupled, from 6 to 25 per cent, since the last parliamentary film bill is also – not least in view of the harsh situation now – highly unfortunate. Even before the Corona virus struck, we knew that this particular increase in VAT, which the Swedish Democrats opposed when it came, puts increased pressure on a number of cinemas around the country. Even before the Corona virus hit Sweden with full force, we could read about disaster figures for Swedish films in the country's cinemas. Visits to see Swedish films in cinemas decreased by 31 per cent from 2018 to 2019. Biovisits decreased overall by 3 per cent in the same year. The trend is negative even over a longer period of time, as the proportion of visits to see Swedish films has halved during 2014– 2019. No Swedish film ended up on last year's ten in the top of the films that got the most visitors to the cinemas. The reasons why Swedish films went so badly in the cinemas last year are of course several. One of the problems that the Swedish Democrats have been clear about pointing out that Swedish films have gone so badly in cinemas is that Swedish film politics, not least since the whole nationalization, is increasingly characterized by left-wing identity politics. The Swedish Film Association has also criticised this and highlighted the diversity focus of the Swedish Film Institute, SFI, as part of the problem. It is not reasonable for a person's gender or origin to have the unreasonably high focus it has today at SFI when assessing which film projects are to be supported. This means, among other things, that skills and a film's ability to achieve commercial success can be pushed on the foot. Mr. Old President! Filmsverige, where cinema culture is an important part, had in short several serious problems to tackle even before the coronavirus appeared and hit as hard as it did. We must now ensure that Filmsverige and Swedish cinema culture are saved from the death blow that this otherwise risks being. The financial support package for cultural life presented by the Government has Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind argued can go, among other things, to the cinemas. The Government has also pointed out that the Swedish Film Institute has acted quickly and has both strengthened and brought forward payments of important support and created more flexibility in terms of repayment rules and deferred projects. That is a good thing, but probably more needs to be done. The Swedish Democrats are willing as a political force to fight for Swedish film and for the survival of Swedish cinema culture. We intend to work for this, even if the JÖK parties do not anchor the proposals on the film industry with us in the opposition, despite the so-called ‘punishment peace' we are talking about. Mr. Old President! Public service has an important role to play, not least when it comes to showing Swedish films and comics, but perhaps especially when it comes to reaching out with socially important information – especially in times like today. It has a particularly important task to ensure that significant information reaches the entire population in crisis situations. It is therefore also important that public services receive the resources needed to carry out the public service mission. On the basis of the party's social-conservative and nationalist starting point, the Swedish Democrats believe that it is of the utmost importance that there is a media player who creates quality content in the Swedish language and who has the task of reflecting our entire country and ensuring that the content is accessible to all citizens regardless of the physical conditions of individual citizens. Many people feel that the public service broadcasters have in recent years failed in their mission to provide factual information and impartial content. We believe that some of the country's current challenges could have been alleviated or avoided if citizens were fully aware and understood of the consequences of certain policy proposals. There is talk of an opinion corridor throughout the media sphere – an opinion corridor which, unfortunately, has remained within the public service. The media system becomes strong by a third state power that not only examines public power but also examines and spurs each other to higher quality and objectivity in its reporting and scrutiny. Public service plays an important role in this composition of media. That is why it is extremely worrying about the lack of objectivity and impartiality that we have seen in the content of public service broadcasters. A review is needed, and now. Mr. Old President! Yesterday we were able to read that the Swedish National Audit Office will begin a review of the Swedish Radio and Television Audit Board. That's good. We have been asking for a review for a long time because many people do not have confidence in the review system we have today. It must be regarded as a major flaw when the system around the audit board is not perceived as reliable, as Timbro, among other things, has reported. The public perceives that the task of the Audit Board is, for example, to examine the merits of programmes that have been broadcast. The Board of Auditors believes that it is not its task to double-check the facts on its own. We are therefore looking forward to the letter due in November this year.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-789	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I do not wish to vote for reservation 8 alone. Mr. Old President! Major and rapid changes are taking place in the media field. We also see how commercial media have received less advertising revenue as a result of the crisis we are currently in. Digital development broadens the media world in many ways. Today there is much more information available, and it is easier to speak as an individual through social media and various commentary fields, for example. At the same time, many local offices have been closed down, and we see several so-called white spots around Sweden – areas or municipalities where there is no local journalistic coverage on site. We need to ensure that this is followed up so that access to comprehensive and independent news coverage and opinion-forming throughout the country is ensured. It is particularly important to monitor areas that are particularly vulnerable and where news coverage is missing or has a lower frequency. This issue is always important, and it is of course of the utmost importance at a time such as this with the need for access to national media as well as local journalism. In order to mitigate the consequences of the crisis we are experiencing, the pre-financing has been increased. At the same time, we must remember that public services play a major role in the reflection of the whole country. It is needed, side by side with the private actors, for us to have a variety of perspectives. We also see, not least during this difficult time, the need for a wide range of public service providers, with an impartial and reviewing news and information transmission, while also spreading culture and creating entertainment in their channels. We live in a time of increasingly differentiated media and newspapers under economic pressure. A prerequisite for us to have a living democracy is that there is access to independent media with the resources, opportunities and skills to produce and demonstrate investigative journalism. Public service has a special role in this media landscape. It is a role that is, among other things, about being an independent player with great integrity. This is obviously a balancing process and a task that is constantly being tested and evaluated, but an independent public service is important for our country's democracy. That is why the system of a public service fee, in which we pay solidarity for this democratic good, is also important to explain and defend. Public service audits, such as an independent media company, of power and society protect democracy, for the benefit of all who live here. The culture and entertainment that the public service companies produce and convey also gives an image of our society and an opportunity to strengthen our society. At the same time, it provides the opportunity for different groups in our society to take part in their own history and culture. It also means an opportunity to increase knowledge and understanding. The broad remit of public services is therefore a prerequisite for its continued relevance in our society and in the fast moving media landscape. With new digital tools, there are also good opportunities to get even more public service without any extra costs. According to broadcasting permits, public service media must be characterised by public education ambitions. However, by limiting the use of the material produced to their own channels, these ambitions and opportunities are also limited. In order to obtain increased use from the public and from other media of the public service material produced by Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio, a change in their openness and accessibility is needed. Mr. Old President! Film is one of the most accessible cultural forms in Sweden, and so we in the Center Party want it to continue to be. But right now the cinemas, and also the film industry in general, are in crisis. It is a crisis created by a pandemic that has taken our country and large parts of the world. The Center Party, together with the government and the Liberals, has now ensured that the cinemas receive additional support through the billion allocated to culture and sport to face the decline of the pandemic. This, of course, will not cover the entire loss caused by the current situation. At the same time, we must see the time that comes after and how we can both preserve and later also develop the Swedish film and cinema culture. VAT on cinema visits was increased in January 2017. The increase in VAT made it more expensive for visitors to go to the cinema, especially in smaller towns and rural areas. At the same time, the already hard-pressed cinemas in these places made it even more difficult to make the economy work. This was the result of the film policy bill submitted by the government to the Riksdag four years ago, in spring 2016. When it was discussed by the Riksdag, seven announcements were also made, including the urgent examination of alternative funding for film policy on the basis of maintaining the previously lower VAT rate. In smaller towns, the cinema means more to cultural life than just as a place to watch movies. In fact, the cinemas are also an important part of a cultural infrastructure that together provides access to a broad cultural life throughout the country. Mr. Old President! Here I would also like to take this opportunity to point out the importance of the fact that there are good conditions for making Swedish film in Sweden. In order to get more films to be recorded in Sweden and improve opportunities for a well-functioning domestic film industry, there is a need for some form of production incentives, also a mission that the government received through an announcement when the film policy bill was discussed in the Riksdag in spring 2016.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-805	Mr. Old President! In previous debates here today, I have talked a great deal about how the coronapandemy has affected civil society in general, sport and the whole of cultural life and the small businesses working in these sectors. At first glance, one might think that the film and television industry is doing well. People stay at home more and have more time to watch movies. But when virtually all cinemas are closed or empty, it affects film production very much. You get to see it as a long chain, from scriptwriters, producers and recordings to distributors and to the screen, and in the end you end up in a stream ning's service or a television channel. And if there's a stop on the road, revenue that doesn't come in at the right time, the whole machine stops. About a month ago, I attended a meeting with large parts of the film industry, which described the serious situation at the time. Many of the smaller cinemas risked bankruptcy. It was told how difficult it would be to get sales for all films once the cinemas are reopened. You can't make up for a lost spring. The film institute's account of how quickly the grant was being made reassured a little then, but last Friday its CEO Anna Serner warned that the resources allocated were not enough, so this is worrying. In today's report, the Left Party has a motion relating to the films that have already been recorded, produced and shown, but which can be preserved and made available to a new audience through digitisation. Today, films are made and shown almost exclusively digitally. The analogue film technology is on its way out. There are nearly 9,000 films in the Swedish Film Institute's archives. If future generations are to benefit from our cinematic cultural heritage, from the late 1800s to the 21st century, it must be digitised. The Left Party believes that Swedish cinematic cultural heritage has as much value as other cultural heritage and must not decay. We also think it should be accessible to the public. With the digitalisation that is now taking place, the films can be shown in digital cinemas, on the web but also via DVD, if someone has left it, and TV. In short, it is a historic opportunity to make cultural heritage available on a large scale. At the same time, there is now a great historical risk that some of this heritage will be lost unless the opportunity is seized. There are many problems today in the work of digitising. This could be a lack of technical equipment. Soon there won't be anyone who knows how they work, and the spare parts are missing. The Film Institute believes that the situation is brighter for them than for several years, but that the efforts must remain. When we see how the digitization of cinemas and new forms of display are emerging, we can also see that it is about live broadcasts of dance, opera and music performances, which I think Per Lodenius was at here earlier. These opportunities provide an increased cultural offer throughout the country. When the Rural Committee presented its report a few years ago, it specifically referred to the digitisation of films and cinemas as an important factor in the fact that smaller towns could have reopened their cinemas, so we must not allow this crisis to allow them to close just a few years later. The film institute is doing pretty well with digitalisation, but with the local film archives it looks a little worse. They have less access to technology, and the economy is worse. That is why we must now help so that they can begin the digitisation of the local film archives. This is a very worrying situation right now, so we think that the government should be tasked with investigating the status of the local film archives and ensuring that there is competence, technology and economy to digitise them. We also think that it should be investigated whether the Film Institute can not be responsible for keeping this work together and getting an investigation assignment. That is why I would like to support my Amendment No 4 in the report. I did not have the opportunity to ask for a reply to Angeli k a Bengtsson from the Swedish Democrats earlier. I would just like to respond to her claim here in the speaker's chair that the Film Institute grants grants based on gender. That is not true, but it is done on the basis of a variety of other parameters. The Film Institute is not an authority like others, but we expect, of course, to see statistics on the status of grants, how the distribution between men and women has fallen out and what diversity looks like. I think we need to be able to follow up most of the contributions that we decide on in this way and see how it actually affects. We know that with a diversity of artistic practitioners we also get a variety of stories and a richer cultural offering. It is therefore important that we have such diversity objectives and that we follow them up with statistics. Mr. Old President! The Left Party has not been exercising on public services, which is also part of the report. Since the broadcasting license runs for several more years, we have not written any exercise this year, but I still want to take the opportunity to say something about the importance of strong and independent public service companies in times of crisis. Swedish Radio and SVT, with their monitoring of the Corona crisis, have a very important role to play. They are, of course, information channels, debate forums and sources of deepening. For example, the public can send in their questions and receive answers from experts – a very important function. We can follow the press conferences from the authorities. I have also noticed that news in different languages is received very well on the Swedish Radio website. There's really been an increase in listening. The education radio also has a very important role now that students, students and teachers will work more remotely. There are both tips and a wide range of digital resources to be able to carry out teaching in a good way, so it is important to also highlight the role of Education Radio. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to say that many, at least in my social media flow, appreciate safe and predictable programmes in the table, such as the broadcasts of the 1994 World Cup. When everything else is worried in the outside world, it may feel good to know whether Ravelli is making that important salvation or not.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-819	Mr. Old President! The social struggle against the spread of infection is affecting all of us right now. Of course, it most seriously affects risk groups and health professionals who are forced to change their lives. Risk groups isolate themselves at home and are currently being given food and medicine purchased by family and neighbors, while health professionals barely make it home before the next shift begins. Although the world press seems to describe Sweden as one of the few countries in the world that has not completely shut down, this does not mean that the pandemic has not hit us. On the contrary, many are living in grief right now over losing a loved one, a family member, or a friend. Mr. Old President! In such a rare time I think a lot about how we have chosen to organize our society, what culture has emerged. My mother, who has worked for a large part of her working life in home care and care for the elderly, has for decades witnessed a difficult working environment with shared work trips where you work early morning and late evening or where you stressed waiting for the morning telephone call to appear at work the same day. The work itself means time counting from the moment you step in with the elderly. Very practical should be made available, and what is perhaps most in demand – a conversation or a cup of coffee – is, instead, the absolute last priority. The work tasks are more and more about time management, checklists and following manuals. I think I see that the organization of welfare has gone from meeting man according to his needs to checking out work on paper. This culture, this way of organising society, I hope that more people in the light of the pandemic will begin to question. Those who work with our elderly deserve completely different conditions, and our elderly deserve security. We should also think this way when it comes to health care staff, public transport, civil protection and all other social functions. In a pandemic, it is those who guarantee us security, help, care and care – what we need when we are at our most vulnerable. Perhaps the pandemic can bring about the realization that it is these people who are supporting our society and that we owe it to cultural change. Mr. Old President! Professor Jonna Bornemark said in her solemn speech at Stockholm Cathedral in 2019 that if we see shortcomings in the culture we belong to, we must ask ourselves how we can change. She said: The amazing thing is that we have an entire sector that deals with this very thing – that makes visible what we have forgotten, who investigates what it is to be human and who tells us about our needs. It is a sector which may not solve problems in the name of efficiency but which is considering how those problems have arisen and how deep they are in our culture. Of course, she spoke of perhaps the most misunderstood sector in our society: culture. Many still see culture as something we can amuse ourselves with when the basic needs are satisfied. But culture tells us how we live, makes our needs visible and can be the catalyst to change our society culture where it is flawed. I know from my mother that we hardly lack a profession in our country. But for a long time we have ignored what the profession, like culture, says. We shouldn't think that everything can be measured. Nor should we ask for figures to tell us what is real. After all, concern, care, and empathy are very real. That's also what man needs right now, but maybe it can't be measured, and maybe that's what the profession wants us to understand. Mr. Old President! In the fight against pandemics, many people suffer loss of income, especially those sectors that are based on human encounters. The government decision to limit public gatherings means that galleries, cultural houses, museums, cinemas, theatres and concert halls are closed. That is why it is absolutely crucial that the government has just presented a 1 billion package of crises to culture and sport. On Friday, the distribution of funds was also presented more closely. This report concerns 50 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise, particularly in the area of film policy and public service. It is most grateful that, at a time when we need factual information, we have established the long-term conditions and funding of public services and that we have decided on a fee system over a licensing system. In addition, the government has strengthened media support permanently to the private media sector, which loses advertising revenue as a consequence of the coronapdemine. The free newspapers, which reach out to a broad public, are now also covered by this support, which is extremely welcome. As regards loss of revenue in the film sector, the Government has decided that the Film Institute will distribute SEK 50 million of the 500 in crisis support. Having said that, I call for all reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-59de12953dc67ddf-834	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the other Members who have participated here today in three different cultural debates. It has been very fun to be part of it. Mr. Old President! Now in Coronatimes, others are exploiting – for example, it can be about foreign powers – the crisis that has arisen to spread disinformation, lies, fake news and narratives that aim to erode our democracy and our trust in each other, both here in Sweden and in Europe, in fact throughout the democratic world. It is clear that the Corona crisis is now pinning our finger on the importance of having both media and information knowledge in school and free journalism, a journalism that is critical, impartial and scrutiny. All these elements constitute the ultimate frontline against the attacks on democracy that disinformation, fake news and other things entail. We Liberals have ensured an increase in pre-financing. We have also pressured the government to exempt newsprint from the new recycling rules in order to relieve the freedom of journalism. This actually has to do with democracy. I would also like to say something about the film industry. Like many other speakers, it is an industry that has been hit hard by the Corona crisis, precisely because it is basically about meetings. I am thinking not least of our cinemas around the country. For us Liberals, it is incredibly important to ensure that the support we have already decided on actually reaches the actors who need it. These are, of course, aid for the cultural sector, but also aid for our companies throughout the country. Mr. Old President! I would now like to add my final speaking time to reservation No 7, which I would also like to support. It is about public services and national minorities. Our national minorities in Sweden have over the years been subjected to the violence that assimilation policy entails. You can't speak your language. One has not been allowed to practice one's culture. Basically, it is the duty and duty of every democratic society and every democratic person to both ensure the protection of our national minorities and ensure that they have the right to and can exercise their culture and speak their language. In our reservation no. 7 we delete below this. We also say that we must support the national minority languages so that they can be kept alive for real. One way to do that is through public service, where we would like to see more space in the tableau reserved for broadcasting in the national minority languages. It is incredibly important that there are both journalism, cultural programmes and other programmes to a sufficient extent to seriously uphold the national minority languages and give people both the tools and the opportunity to exercise their right to their culture and language. Mr. Old President! With those words, I would once again like to endorse Amendment No 7.
