i-d29814b0fb157b52-2	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is affecting us all. It is primarily a crisis in which people's lives and health are at stake. There are many of us who are worried about our loved ones. But we also have a very serious economic situation. The whole chain of society – from individuals to companies, organisations and the common sector – is heavily affected by the economic impact of the Corona virus. Now we need many and strong efforts to tackle together as a society the great strain that we face today and the coming months. The first measure has been to limit the spread of infection and to provide support to the Swedish health care system. Today's decision here in Parliament means, for example, that the withdrawal from sickness insurance is removed. This makes it possible to stay home from the first day when you feel uncomfortable without a major economic setback. My very clear message to everyone who listens to this is: Do it! Stay home! It is an important effort to prevent the spread of infection in society, and now together we are also taking a financial responsibility for this to be possible for everyone. We have also stated in the past that the state will take all the extraordinary costs associated with the Corona crisis for healthcare in municipalities and regions during this difficult time. This is also an important message. It should not and must not be money that stands in the way of health care work. Today, the government and the cooperation parties have also given a message to municipalities and regions that they will receive an additional contribution of SEK 15 billion in 2020 in addition to the resources that have already been decided or previously announced. The second thing we do to overcome the crisis is to protect Swedish jobs and companies. We do so through a wide range of measures. The Swedish Parliament has already decided on government credit guarantees of up to SEK 100 billion – a business case – so that the banks can lend money to small and medium-sized enterprises in need of liquidity. The state is taking a big responsibility here and a large part of the risk that the money will actually come out. We have also already decided on the possibility for companies to have tax deferrals. They can even get back already paid tax, i.e. taxes that have been paid earlier this year. In this way, we can also strengthen the liquidity of companies. However, it is not just a question of guarantees and credit. We also remove costs from companies as the state takes over sickness pay responsibility from employers. In addition, the government has put forward a new bill on the reduction of social security contributions which will be dealt with in this House next week. Today, we are going to decide on a new system of support for short-term work – short-term lay-off – where the state takes three-quarters of the cost. This means that the employee can keep his/her job and remain in the workplace but with shorter working hours. The state removes a large part of the personnel costs from the company for this to be possible. In addition, during the examination of the Committee on Finance, we have extended the proposal so that it will also apply to companies operating mainly with public funding. We also make it possible for family businesses that have previously employed family members to be included in this important system. This is a comprehensive support that the state, i.e. the citizens of Sweden, exhibits to the Swedish business community. With that comes a clear obligation. It cannot be the case that the companies receiving subsidies from taxpayers pass the money on in the form of dividends to the owners at the same time. The whole community is now mobilizing and making great sacrifices. Then shareholders and management will also do their part. You cannot, with one hand, pick up crisis support from taxpayers and then manage dividends with the other. Madam President, I would like The third thing we do to overcome the crisis is to increase security and improve the possibility of transition for people who, despite these great efforts for jobs, still lose their jobs. We are lowering the thresholds into unemployment insurance so that it also covers those in precarious employment. We also raise the replacement levels. The possibility of getting support to return to a job will also be reinforced through better labour market policies and opportunities for education and training. Today's decision here in Parliament also includes changes to be able to get the right to CSN support if education is forced to pause due to the infection situation. We're not quite there yet, but we're taking heights for that eventuality. The country's students should thus be able to feel financially secure. Madam President, I would like We limit the spread of infection and support the health care system. We protect Swedish jobs and companies. We increase the security of the person who loses his job, and we strengthen the way back to work. So we are now working our way through this difficult situation, and we are doing it together. Then we will take more initiatives to revitalise Sweden. I support the proposal in the report.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-16	Madam President, I would like The decisions we make here in Parliament in the next few days and weeks will affect Sweden throughout the 20's. This is a serious and crucial time. It tests us first and foremost on a human plane. Too many people are crawling under their skins. There are many questions. What will happen to my loved ones? What's gonna happen to me? Am I going to keep my job? The question of how long this is going to last, I think there are many of us who are asking us. This crucial time also tests us financially. Thousands are now losing their job. Only in March we had 37 000 notice in Sweden. Last week it was 18,000. There's more than we've ever seen. The carpet is now being pulled away for entire industries. It is indeed a trying time, Madam President. It is also a time when we, as parties and as Members, are being tried. Do we have the ability to make the necessary and correct decisions that can take Sweden out of the crisis, without mass unemployment and a deep recession being the result? One thing is certain: we cannot be hesitant and cautious now. The crisis has already happened. It is also going on right now, and it risks getting much worse before it gets better. Colleagues from all parties! This is where we can save jobs and prevent mass unemployment. That is why very strong measures are needed, not just tomorrow, but precisely today. I will not give up on this task. I intend to do everything in my power to save as many jobs and Swedish companies as possible. One of the most important things that I think we should do is to lift employers' contributions entirely for a few months for all companies. But we shall have that discussion in this House tomorrow, Madam President. Today we are going to decide on a broad package that we in the Committee on Finance have discussed in a thorough way. I would like to thank all Members for their good and constructive cooperation. Many important measures to save jobs are now in place. Thanks to the Riksdag, this package is even a little better than what the government presented. It is good that the whole Parliament now demands a reduction in, for example, the interest rate for tax deferrals. It must not be the case that some companies feel that they cannot even afford to take part in the state's emergency package. In fact, an interest rate of 6.6 percent can mean the death toll for many companies, rather than a lifeline, as it was intended. I would therefore like to focus a little more on the January parties today. This is an emergency. You should come back, no later than next week, with a abolished or reduced interest rate for the deferral and have a discussion with us. It is Parliament's will and Parliament's demands. Every day that goes without us getting a reduced interest rate in place is a day with more bankruptcies and more lost jobs than would have been necessary. Madam President, I would like Today, we are deciding to make short-term work possible in a better way than is the case today. It is good that the government's proposals are broadened according to what many of us have expressed. It will apply to family members in family businesses as well as temporary agencies, but also to enterprises that mainly finance their activities through public funds. Madam President, I would like I believe that there will be reason to come back with further improvements to the proposal a little later on. Now we have to get it in place as quickly as possible. Then I very much hope that the government, which is still the ones that are in charge of the authorities that are going to ensure that this works, will ensure that it will also work in practice for all the small companies that are now really in need of this support. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that we have decided on many necessary things but that it is not enough. We will have to do more to save Swedish jobs. That there should be money in a few months, when we need to kickstart the economy again, is obvious. But what economy are we going to restart? Is it an economy where some industries don't even exist? Is it an economy of mass unemployment? I promise that the take-off distance will be so vastly longer and considerably more expensive if we do not do everything we can here and now to save as many jobs as possible. I am not going to give up on this issue. We Moderates will continue to present elaborate proposals that the government is happy to put forward as its own. For me, the most important thing is that they are implemented. We have done so, for example, when it comes to Karen's Day and sickness pay. We did so when we produced a well-prepared proposal for a business case, which the government is now introducing and on which we have also taken a decision. It's basically good. We have done so in terms of pushing down the government interest rate on tax payments. We did so when we proposed that the release should be removed in CSN, so that those who now jump in and support the care should not be penalised financially. We have proposed that viral testing should be carried out on a larger scale. It will now begin to happen, which is very good. Today, the government presented 15 billion to regions and municipalities. We Moderates think it's good that you listen and that you follow what we say. That the state should go in and cover half the rent costs for companies, which we will soon decide on, but another day, is also a very good proposal which I am pleased that you have taken on board. Madam President, I would like From the Moderate side, we will continue to do everything we can to save as many jobs as possible. We want to save the job of the chef in Bjuv and the shop assistant in Dorotea. There are many jobs now under threat. There are many who have already had to quit their job. We will continue to be constructive and do everything we can to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. That is why I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-30	Madam President, I would like Right now, we're going through a crisis of a kind that at least I didn't think I was going to experience in my lifetime. The way in which it affects communities, businesses and people, even loved ones, testifies that it is not a crisis like everyone else. You often talk about a world before and after the Nine eleven. In the same way, I think we will be talking about a Sweden, a Europe and a world before and after covid-19. This is not about subprime loans, the housing market, real estate or an IT bubble. This is something else. It is about now having to deal with a global pandemic in parallel with an economic crisis. But if one is to seek a gleam of light in this tragedy, it is how we, as fellow human beings, act. Neighbors help elderly people buy food and medicine, chemists at universities produce hand alcohol for care and companies donate mouth protection. Health workers retired doctors and nurses and university students join us. They deserve all credit and respect for risking life and health by standing in the front line in the fight against the pandemic. I think that the constructive way in which the committee's office and members work demonstrates the strength of Swedish parliamentarism. As we have a very rapid crisis course where conditions today may be quite different from yesterday, the process is adapted to the extent possible. Of course, it is impossible to look into the divination ball and know exactly how this will turn out. Even now, however, we are facing major economic trials, bankruptcies, redundancies and reduced trade. In the Swedish manufacturing industry we see broken supply chains. Several sectors are already bleeding. In some parts of the private services sector, we see 90% reduction in demand. Goldman Sachs estimates a bnp rate of 24 percent next quarter in the U.S. economy. This causes people to be concerned about jobs and health, as the future is currently uncertain. You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. It is therefore both a supply shock and a demand shock, while the medical solution is considered to be in a slowdown in the real economy. It is a rare complex and serious situation we have to deal with. It places high demands on the policy to deliver clear, well-thought-out and decisive decisions. The strong opinion of the Swedish democrats is that there is no reason whatsoever for the government to save on gunpowder or hesitate. The downside of such a scenario is that this recession develops into a depression of biblical proportions, into a wave of bankruptcy with mass unemployment, lower pensions, poorer care, increased mental illness and increased insecurity as a result. That is not where we want to go, but that is where we are going if strong action is not put in place. We see 10–20 percent of GDP as perfectly reasonable with the public finances and public debt that we have. Moreover, this would be more in parity with other countries, and it would be a good insurance against the economic and social meltdown that threatens our country. The government has presented a number of packages of fiscal incentives. What we have to consider here today is the supplementary amending budget which includes, among other things, tax deferrals, short-term work, rent rebates, infectivity pay and sickness pay costs. These are measures supported by the Swedish Democrats, while our assessment is that we can and must do more to ensure that fundamentally viable companies are not knocked out. First of all, we need to eliminate employers' contributions completely for six months in order to create clear and long-term rules that remove uncertainty for companies. Nevertheless, the state needs to take full financial responsibility for layoffs to give the business community room to deal with negative cash flows. Furthermore, the interest rate on the loans offered to companies must be set at zero. Otherwise, the risk to companies of unforeseen interest expenses is that the liquidity problems will recur in the future. Large-scale corporate exclusion is a far more serious systemic risk than a reduction in interest rates. Therefore, it is now of the utmost importance that we have a united committee with clear directives for the government to push the interest rate down to the absolute minimum possible. It is equally important for politics to ensure the safety of people's everyday lives. Last week a little more than 20 000 Swedes were given notice. It is a difficult private economic situation to find oneself in. Many are concerned about whether they will be able to pay rent, bills and so on. Of course, that is something that keeps many awake at night. Therefore, it was also positive news that was given on Monday that the unemployment fund was enlarged and increased. The fact that employees must be protected is something that the Swedish democrats have been pushing for a long time and which we emphasised in our particular opinion. Madam President, I would like Prosperity is driven by people having a job to go to and they feel that they make a meaningful difference in their everyday lives. This is done by companies generating tax revenue and through product development and technological innovation. Without employees, the companies stop, and without the companies, Sweden stops. The role of politics at this stage must therefore be to deliver predictability, clarity and determination in crisis management so that people and businesses are given the best possible opportunity to deal with the consequences of the recession.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-43	Madam President, I would like We can clearly see the class society in the wake of the Corona crisis. We see this in how class-related diseases increase the risk of developing the virus. We see this in the tracks of tax cuts in how welfare has been underfunded and how employees are not enough. We see it in who can work at home and who has to go to work. We see it in whether you can afford to stay at home or not when you get sick. In the supplementary amending budget that we are now debating and deciding on this afternoon, there are many good proposals. It's about the abolition of the withdrawal of the withdrawal from the carer. What can also be called Karen's Day, as it was before, is proposed to be removed. That was something that the Left Party demanded very early. Clearly, if you have a low salary of 20 000 - 25 000 crowns (U.S.) that you have when you are a nurse, a Karen's Day is almost insurmountable. If you get sick for a long time and have 80 percent of your income, it is of course very obvious what it does with that person's finances, life conditions and family. That is why it is now so good that this proposal is included. In fact, we should do as we do in Norway and permanently abolish Karen's Day. They don't have any higher sickness rates than we have for that. It is important that we are at home when we have a cold or feel any symptoms so that we do not spread the infection further. We are also actually debating the removal of sickness pay liability. That's very good. It also provides the local government sector with more resources. But it also provides opportunities for many companies to cope better with the situation. It is just like with the big and perhaps heaviest proposal in the supplementary budget for short-term lay-offs. If you look at the evidence that came from the government, it was estimated that the cost would be about 2 billion. While we were preparing the proposal, the cost was up to about 20 billion. We do not know what it is today, but it says something about how fast this whole crisis is going. When we look at the proposals on short-term lay-off jobs, we see that the legislation that was already in place has been used to make things quick. We in committee have tried to work to improve the proposals. The Left Party has actually raised three issues and, above all, two issues. Firstly, we have meant and emphasised in the committee, to which the whole committee has then joined, that when you take part in the grants you should not be able to withdraw dividends or dividends. That should be a matter of course. It's about morals and social responsibility. Taxpayers can't bring in money with one fist and then the owners can pick them out with the other fist. We can never accept that. I would like to highlight once again how important it is not to use as much of the profits for dividends as has now been done for a long time. This means that companies, companies, are more fragile when a crisis comes. The balance sheet is simply too small. Of course, many companies now need help. The crisis goes deeper than it might otherwise have had to do if some of those dividends had been saved in companies. Maybe it's something to think about in the future. Quarterly capitalism and short-term thinking are not something that carries much forward. The second thing we highlight in terms of short-term lay-offs is that family members should be included. If the employer is part of the family, the family members working in the company must also be covered by the short-term lay-off allowance. It's very important. Many family businesses are now in crisis. This applies not least in, for example, the restaurant and tourism industry. The whole committee has also agreed to this. It is very good, and it is also a strength in this situation. The third thing we have been involved in making proposals together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats is that an announcement should instruct the government to come back with proposals on the cost rate for using tax accounts. The cost rate has become well high so that there may be too much costs to use the bet. It is therefore important for the government to review it. We will discuss in the future what level it will end up at. The government has finally presented a proposal for the unemployment fund. It's very good and very necessary. It should have come earlier, because very many people in the Swedish labour market are employed on a fixed-term basis in different forms. It is therefore very welcome. Today it has presented 15 billion this year to the local government sector and 12 1⁄2 billion to the future. With this addition, we can see that next year's savings are estimated to be around 20 to 30 billion in the local government sector. This means that 40 000 to 60 000 employees may not be able to continue working. It happens in times when we would really have to send out signals to all those who are now working in health care: you will be better off then. We will do what we can to get you better working conditions, better schedules, better wages and better working environment. But what is happening with the addition is, unfortunately, that the cuts will continue. That is deeply regrettable. This is where we need to show all those who are working out there: Sure, we appreciate so much what you're doing. We applaud you every day. But that's not enough. They also need to know that it will ease later. that they will have better working conditions; How many people have gone home from those jobs with worn-out bodies and been on sick leave and have been thinking about whether to stop, and how many have not stopped before the crisis came? Why, then, should we not build the welfare sectors strong? That's what we need to do. We'll be more fragile if we don't. We have also seen this in the context of meeting this crisis. Without the welfare workers, we would have had a completely different society. We have a responsibility to show them that the cuts will have an end. We're going to finance the welfare. The underfunding is history only. Unfortunately, however, we continue with the message that has come today on the road that we have been walking for too long. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-61	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in the midst of a deep economic crisis. We have been given notice figures that we have never seen before, even during the financial crisis. The government has presented forecasts pointing to a massive growth rate and a sharp rise in unemployment. Above all, we hear the distress calls from entrepreneurs and employees. It's people who see their life's work merge in front of their eyes. We see their concern for their livelihood and the possibility of remaining in a workplace you might love. The crisis strikes directly and widely. How long it will be is uncertain, but Sweden is at risk of large-scale corporate death and exclusion of jobs and thus of great harm to resource creation, entrepreneurship, health and community. Madam President, I would like The responsibility for public finances should always guide the work on budgetary issues and measures. But there is now a significant danger in waiting to take massive measures on a larger scale to bleeding companies with the aim of having dry powder in the barns in order to later restart the economy. There is then a risk that large parts of what is to be restarted are the rash. I would therefore urge the government to take this on board, to do more now, to turn up the measures to avoid that risk. Madam President, I would like Many parts of what the government has proposed so far in the crisis have been good. It is about the removal of withdrawals, the abolition of sickness pay, retroactive deferral of taxes and state credit guarantees. Today, for example, we are also discussing deferred tax and lay-off aid. On Christian Democratic initiative, Parliament has managed to bring forward the possibility of deferment. It's important. But the proposal for a tax deferral came with a dark spot, an unreasonably high interest rate. The proposed total interest rate corresponds to a deductible annual interest rate of 6,6 %. Together with the representative liability that can make entrepreneurs personally liable for tax debts in the event of bankruptcy, this interest rate makes many entrepreneurs hesitate or feel uncomfortable about using that liquidity enhancement. We Christian Democrats therefore called for representative responsibility to be paused and for interest rates to be reduced. Now the Swedish Tax Agency has announced that the representative responsibility will be paused. And driven by cooperation between the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party, the committee has agreed that interest rates should be reduced. It can play a major role in the short term. I expect the government to come back to us within days with proposals for a reduction in interest rates. Madam President, I would like At the same time, the government's direct support is insufficient. They are too small to reach and not optimally designed. This applies, in particular, to the proposal on short-term lay-offs on which Parliament is to decide today. It is good that the system is in place and that workers are allowed to keep their jobs but are laid off during part of the working time while the state is taking a larger share of the wage cost. It can save a lot of jobs and businesses. However, the crisis is so deep that the highest lay-off rate of 60 per cent, which means a salary reduction for the employer of just over half, is not sufficient. The proposed reduction in employers' contributions, which goes to both extremely vulnerable service companies and less vulnerable insurance companies and grocery retailers, certainly provides further relief. However, I believe that the single most important measure now is to rapidly strengthen the possibility of cortid lay-off in order to prevent mass lay-offs and corporate deaths. Leave should be possible with support up to 90%. With current shares for employers, wage earners and the state, this would lead to wage cost reductions of nearly 80 per cent. The government should also raise the wage ceiling so that more professions are fully covered by the support. My view is that the parties are prepared to quickly conclude agreements at higher levels, if the state makes it possible. Madam President, I would like However, the proposal on lay-off aid, the construction itself, has several problems that can contribute to bankruptcy and unnecessarily high unemployment. In several parts, the Committee on Finance has now also improved the proposal, promoted by among others the Christian Democrats. In contrast to the government proposal, employed family members in family businesses will also be able to use the system, as well as companies that are mainly financed by public funds. It's good and important. It is also a good thing that the committee has made clear the absurdity of getting tax subsidies for wage costs and at the same time paying bonuses or large dividends. However, one problem remains: a damaging requirement to lay off staff who are not permanent in order to receive lay-off aid. In fact, the Government's proposal sets out a requirement: Such measures may involve... the dismissal of non-permanent staff who are not deemed to be critical of their activities, e.g. consultants, agency staff or temporary staff. ..................................................... All temporary, fixed-term or probationary employees, as well as consultants, must therefore be terminated only if the company can demonstrate that the person concerned is critical of their activities. It will then be decided by the Swedish Agency for Growth. But who is critical, essential to the company's survival, in the worst economic crisis we have experienced in modern times? The bill does not offer any guidance even in a normal economic situation. There is considerable uncertainty here as well as a clear risk of delays in decisions and payments of lay-off aid. We are already seeing a clear effect of this provision. Companies announce temporary employees on a large scale and conclude consultancy assignments to be sure to take part in short-term lay-off for permanent employees. It's about thousands of people. This leads to dramatic consequences for service companies with qualified consultants such as engineers and economists. As a result, temporary workers, who are often more vulnerable in the labour market and have a lower safety net, are also hit harder than necessary. In Sweden, approximately 750 000 people have temporary employment contracts. More than 500 000 of them are privately employed and a few hundred thousand of them are located in hotels, restaurants, shops and services. That is why I have re-trained and acted in the Committee on Finance for this provision to be paused in 2020, but a majority says no. Chairman of the Committee on Finance Fredrik Olovsson told the newspaper "The world of labor" that only the Christian Democrats among the parties think this way. Yes, I'm afraid so. But that is not a dazzlingly strong argument. Outside the circle of parties, the Christian Democrats are not alone. The government's own expert authority, Konjunkturinstitutet, wrote already on 15 March in its referral that the government should consider changing the proposal so that applicants should not have to terminate contracts with consultants and temporary staff in order to receive support due to the economic situation and the type of company that is now affected. Since then, the crisis has deepened considerably. Internationally, OECD evaluations have shown that temporary workers are hardest hit in a crisis, partly because they are less often covered by short-term lay-offs proposals. According to the OECD, it further weakens their position in the labour market. It is not even the Christian Democrats and the Institute of Economics that think otherwise, so to speak. Belgium, Germany, France, Luxembourg and Austria can be added to the list. These are countries that changed their systems after the financial crisis to include temporary workers. They saw what the consequences would be for unemployment if they did not. But Sweden does the opposite. It is also argued that there would be an obvious risk of fraud and that our proposal could have insurmountable consequences, that we could be put in a situation where companies leave their permanent staff on a short-term basis and then call people in for hours. Who wants it? How's that? It is quite clear that there is a risk of fraud in all state aid, including in this. However, it exists regardless of whether or not temporary staff are included. That is why monitoring is also important afterwards. However, the argument about cheating does not hold very well. Firstly, if temporary workers are to be subject to the lay-off system, they also, as for permanent workers, must have been employed three months before the lay-off. Secondly, the lay-off system means that the employer pays more per hour, even if the wage cost falls. For 40 per cent working hours, the employer pays 47.5 per cent of the salary. Why should the employer pay a more expensive hourly allowance for laid-off permanent staff and then take in temporary staff? Madam President, I would like What about the intransparent consequences to which reference has now been made, if we are to include temporary staff and abolish the provision? Of course, not every aspect can be taken into account, but there is actually even a preparation basis here. In the short-term work and lay-off system introduced in 2014, which is now dormant and can be activated in a particularly deep recession, it is explicitly stated that temporary workers should be covered. Both the investigation and the bill were clear on this point, so that they would not end up in a worse position. Nor is there any requirement in that law – well prepared – for all consultants who are not operational-critical to be dismissed. The provision has been added now, and it is possibly understandable in peacetime, but in a recession of the magnitude we now see, this requirement contributes to increased exclusion and increased labour market disparities, and that is not good for Swedish companies. There is a predictable consequence of the rule, namely that more people will become unemployed and businesses will be harmed. Now the government must act and come back with proposals that correspond to our proposal, that is, to temporarily remove the provision, or to immediately activate the 2014 legislation because there is a particularly deep recession. In that case, temporary staff would be subject to lay-offs without special examination. The government must now increase the level of lay-off to meet the depth and scale of the crisis, where many companies experience revenue losses of well over 60%. The latter, among many urgent measures, is the single most important thing right now. I believe that the parties in Parliament and the government and their cooperation parties listen to good arguments. This gives me some hope on these points, Madam President, but it is urgent. There is an enormous rush!
i-d29814b0fb157b52-86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. This is a serious time for Sweden. It's about health, and it's about economics. When we in the Committee on Finance meet in plenary, almost on a daily basis, to deal with new proposals and new proposals, it is because of the gravity of the situation. We need to do a lot, we have done a lot and we will have to do more. The large tax cuts that now come to large and small companies, 30 billion in reduced employers' contributions, the abolition of responsibility for sick pay costs for Sweden's entrepreneurs, increased security by more people getting access to the unemployment insurance fund, means that we secure jobs and increase security for people. An important part of what we are doing is what is called short-term lay-off – the proposal that is on the table of the House today. It concerns the possibility for the employee to reduce working hours and for the company to get help with the cost of wages from the state. In many cases, it is a matter of the state accounting for half of the wage cost. Together with the abolition of employers' contributions, it is an important part of ensuring that business costs are reduced in this situation. This also means security for the employee. You don't have to go out into unemployment, you can keep your employment. True, you are not at work as much, but you know that the day the economy turns back, the job and the job are there. It means great security for people. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we can act with the feeling that we are doing this together in Swedish politics. I think that dealing with the issue of short-term lay-off is one such example, namely where various parties, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party, have come up with proposals that have meant that we can jointly improve the proposal that the government first put forward. It is a question of family businesses now being subject to short-term lay-off. It is clear that consultants and consultancy companies are covered, and it is also a matter of joint observation that the interest on the deferred tax payments actually needs to be reduced. That is good, and it shows a strength that we in Swedish politics can at this point agree on and improve the proposals that come from the government so that they better meet the reality we are now seeing. Some of the proposals that have been put on the table were made for a short time. Several of the proposals stem from the 2008-2009 financial crisis and are not at all adapted to the particular Corona crisis we are experiencing at the moment. It is clear that it is a strength that the Finance Committee can jointly change the proposals and ensure that they better meet what Sweden we are seeing now. These are some important and good examples of this. Madam President, I would like What we are doing now is using the money we have saved for many years to deal with the crisis, to secure jobs in Sweden and to avoid mass unemployment. It's important. For many years we have been saving precisely to be able to use the money in such crises. It is a strength for Swedish politics and our country that we are able to do this. It is about spending 100 billion on reforms that lower taxes and increase expenditure. It is about 550 billion that are pumped, injected, into the Swedish economy through various types of credit guarantees and liquidity enhancements to the Swedish companies. Is that enough? There is much evidence that developments in our world mean that we will have to do more. When other countries completely shut down, when 1 billion children are not at school but at home, this means that exporting companies will be affected at the next stage by the fact that large parts of the world are completely extinguished and do not buy any Swedish products. What we are doing now is important and good, but there is reason for us to come back; we will have to do more.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-96	Madam President, I would like It is good that Mats Persson, a wise person, has announced that we need to do more. I think it is absolutely necessary to do more and quickly. That is why my first question to Mats Persson is whether the January parties will come back in the near future with proposals for a significantly increased level of lay-off. My second question to Mats Persson is about how reasonable it is in this deep recession, this deep crisis that we are now in, to have a rule that requires the dismissal of staff in order to benefit from state aid.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-98	Madam President, I would like I thank Jakob Forssmed for the questions. The first question was whether the January parties have prepared proposals for changes to the issue of short-term lay-off. I think it is a good thing that we are talking about this together and debating the issue in the Swedish Parliament. I think that the Christian Democrats and other parties are highlighting important things that may need to be adjusted later on, and it is important to keep an eye on them. The proposal that we are now discussing was drawn up in four days, and it is important to remember that three weeks ago no one thought that the corona virus would have the health and, above all, the economic effects that it appears to have. We are now working together at an extremely frenetic pace with many reforms. The proposals now on Parliament's table were made during the financial crisis or for a normal recession situation, where it often begins in industry or in the export driven part of the economy. Now it is a crisis that begins in the tourism industry and that may have an effect on the export industry at the next stage. It is clear that we need to consider whether the lay-off system should look differently because some companies today have almost zero demand for their services or what they produce. Of course we must follow this closely.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-102	Madam President, I would like It is good that the insight is at Mats Persson. It bodes well. As I said in the speaker's chair, I have great hope that there are parties that listen to and hear the input we make and, above all, see what it looks like in Swedish business right now, which are having significant problems, what effect or lack of impact the proposals have. This is absolutely excellent. If we can help, we'd be happy to. I also hope that you will soon want to review the rule that people should not have to be laid off, send them out into the cold, in order to protect the permanent workers. That cannot be a reasonable rule in this type of recession. I am not asking Mats Persson to answer for all the January parties, but it would be welcome to hear something in the sense that we have nothing against this as a matter of fact; let us take a closer look at this rather than arguments against this proposal, which I do not think is reasonable. It's just a message and a question to Mats Persson if he can say something in that part too. Although Mats Persson would be against my proposal in substance, I believe that this rule will have negative effects because the Swedish Agency for Growth will then conduct trials on which temporary employees are operating critical and not. Already the uncertainty surrounding this has led companies to resign staff, so even if one were in favour of the rule in principle one should at this point be able to see that it has effects that are not wanted.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-107	Madam President, I would like I can promise Jakob Forssmed one thing: this is not the time for principles. This is the time of pragmatism. Part of this is to consider whether the rules for short-term lay-off need to be changed. A lot of evidence suggests that they may need to be changed. Then I think it is important to emphasise that there is no obstacle today to those who are consultants or who are not employed by a company. It does not need to be terminated for a company to use lay-off at the same time. We have even clarified this in committee. I think that's important. But again: This is not the time for principles. This isn't the time for prestige. This is the time to follow developments constructively and closely and to see what effects the measures we have taken will have – and to change them if necessary – and to think about the course of this crisis and to take measures in a clear, firm and rapid way to secure Swedish jobs, secure security and avoid bankruptcies.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-111	Madam President, I would like In a crisis such as the one we are now experiencing jointly in Sweden and in the world, it becomes clear what resources a country basically has. It is of course extremely valuable that we in Sweden can now pick from stable public finances and thus act forcefully and resolutely when the economy sinks and entrepreneurs see their life's work disappear. But it is equally important and equally clear that we are also bringing out the gold reserve we have in Sweden in the form of solidarity and trust between people and in the public system, because it is equally important that we help each other. It is so clear that robust public Sweden is now changing at a furious pace and adapting its operations to the conditions that prevail. All the decisions that we here in Parliament and in the government pour over our authorities are received with great diligence. I would like to send a thought to those who are now working hard to implement the decisions we are making here. The first thing that is happening in the crisis is about health and reducing the spread of infection. The second is to reduce the impact on the economic system as a matter of urgency. Then the focus is on ensuring that as few as possible lose their job and livelihood. We do this by pumping out a variety of measures for businesses. I think there are many with me who have made a new acquaintance in the word lay-off. After all, we have lived in a boom and did not have to be very familiar with it. Now we are making a large programme that allows companies to reduce their business and that in Sweden we share the cost between the employee, the company and the state in a spirit of solidarity. The state goes in and takes great responsibility for the costs of a programme that involves as many people as possible having the job left when this crisis is over. At an impressive pace, the social partners, in the form of employers and trade unions, have negotiated the agreements needed to achieve this quickly, and this is now happening. We in committee have made a number of improvements to the proposal so that there can be more. We have also made an extremely important mark: State aid cannot be combined with the distribution of profits to the owners. It is very clear, and we agree on this. You are simply not in the kind of need that you should be in for support if you can afford to make dividends. It's good that it's clear now. The message from our expert authorities is also clear: The most important thing is to protect our risk groups, and we do that best by staying at home with the slightest symptoms. Then the measures to be taken here today are important. Karen's day is removed, and sickness pay is taken by the government. We also remove the requirement for medical certificates to stay at home. These are pragmatic and clear regulatory changes that mean that no one should hesitate to stay at home at the slightest sign because they feel that it will cause the salary to end before the end of the month and that they may not be able to pay the rent. It is also pragmatic that we do not send people to doctors when they have symptoms. Of course they're staying home. It is also important that we now mark that if students get their studies disturbed, they should not be afraid not to receive study grants. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-123	Madam President, I would like I was going to take this opportunity to ask you a question that I hope will come. We've been talking about withdrawals, the importance of being home when you're sick and the consequences of the Corona virus. There are groups which, even before the crisis came, had a very difficult financial situation. One of those groups is intellectually impaired and is in daily operations. Now is the call to stay at home if you have the slightest symptoms, and many of them stay at home. On the first day, their habilitation allowance disappears. There are municipalities that close down completely because they do not have staff and because of the risk of infection and such things. This group, which had very low income even before the crisis, then loses its daily allowance. I think it would be reasonable, given the current situation, for this group to retain its compensation even if the activity closes down because of the Corona or because they are forced to be at home sick, because they are not covered by health insurance either. I was just wondering if you could imagine such a move. After all, there is a state subsidy which we in the Left Party negotiated during the last parliamentary term so that the municipalities could increase the compensation or introduce it. What the government could do now is to go out and say, "You can keep this state grant even if the business is closed, but you have to make sure it goes to the users." I was going to ask if it's possible.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-128	Madam President, I would like I thank Ulla Andersson very much for raising a very important question. We have also discussed it briefly in committee. What we're doing now is scanning everyone. There are an enormous number of groups in Sweden that are affected now, and it is important in this that we have the very weakest in mind and graze with different possibilities to change rules or simply increase support if needed. The principle is that it is the state that should take responsibility. We should not place the responsibility on individuals to choose between leaving home when they have symptoms and having their income affected. We're not going to put individuals in that electoral situation. I think this is an important issue raised by Ulla Andersson. I have already sent questions to my colleagues at the Government Office. I would be happy to repeat those requests. It's working too hard to find every crack in the system. I am happy to repeat the words of Mats Persson. This is not the time for principles or squares. It's the time for pragmatism. It characterises the work, and all proposals for improvements are received with the utmost seriousness and diligence. We'll take them with us.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-132	Madam President, I would like That sounds good. You have had this proposal for quite some time at the Government Office because I recorded it very early, because I think it is an important issue. It may seem small, but for the group it is very important. Moreover, there is nothing that needs to cost the state anything extra, but the state can just go out and tell the municipalities: Do this! You have coverage, because the state grant will remain. So I think it should be a rather simple measure, which would, however, make things easier for a group of people who are financially having a very tough time. I therefore hope that it will come, and I appreciate the fact that Karolina Skog is taking this issue with her again. I simply hope that it will produce a little better results.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-134	Madam President, I would like Again – I appreciate the spirit we have in Parliament, where we simply think together. The work is currently taking place extremely quickly. It is important that the proposals come forward quickly, and that means that they are not all perfect. We do not do the usual thing with rounds of referrals and months of preparation, and therefore every Member of Parliament needs to consider and submit proposals that are received. You should know that our colleagues at the Government Office are extremely burdened and literally working day and night. But I will repeat the question one more time, because it is important.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-137	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the work of the government and for the fact that it is difficult and fast. But there are things that are obviously wrong and simply need to be changed. I just asked Mats Persson, as a representative of the cooperation parties, about the regulation of short-term lay-offs, and I am going to ask Karolina Skog, as a representative of the government, about the same thing. We now have a system with a requirement for companies. In order to benefit from the short-term lay-off system, measures must be taken to reduce temporary staff and consultants, unless they are critical to the operation. This has already led to the dismissal of staff, the closure of thousands of consultancy contracts and the dispatch of temporary workers in the cold. I mean it's unnecessary. The intention of such a system cannot, I mean, be that, in a deep recession, staff should be forced to resign in order to protect other staff. This is a conclusion that has been drawn in many European countries. Germany, France, Belgium and Austria changed their systems following the financial crisis and included temporary staff. KI wrote about this already on 15 March this year. As I said, I have respect for preparation procedures and for the fact that it is difficult and fast. Therefore, I would be very happy if Karolina Skog simply said: Yes, we are going to change this rule. We regret that we have not done so so far, but now we will. It is an obvious problem that people should have to be dismissed in this crisis, and it also risks delaying the administration of the Swedish Agency for Growth. That would be a very good answer to this question.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-141	Madam President, I would like At the moment, it is good to give some background to these hasty proposals and tell us where they come from. The rules on short-term lay-off, which we are now already changing in relation to the original proposal, are based on a proposal which was well thought out. But it was probably intended for a different situation than the one we find ourselves in. It was probably more thought that an industry or perhaps even an individual company would suffer from something that the industry or company cannot influence. There could be disturbances in the outside world. The proposal on short-term lay-off was designed to enable the state to go in and reimburse part of the cost and keep the company and employees under arms in the meantime. Now we have a completely new economic situation in Sweden, where many industries with different conditions are affected at the same time. Then we see that this system is not sitting entirely like a glove. That is why we have already made some improvements in the committee, and we have also turned and turned the issue raised by Jakob Forssmed. We found it's not simple. It is quite complicated to see directly the consequences of such a change, and we therefore found in agreement that we could not sit in committee and rewrite the law without knowing the consequences. However, all the good proposals are received with the utmost seriousness; that is the clear message I am giving here today. We're following developments. All ideas about improvements are taken seriously, and we turn them around and turn them around. Nobody is now acting in principle or haughty and saying that we cannot listen. It is a listening work and a turning and twisting to find a system that is right in an economic situation we have never experienced before.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-144	Madam President, I would like I am slightly opposed to this being so difficult and having the serious consequences that Karolina Skog is talking about. The question is not new. The study that produced the first proposal for short-term work after the financial crisis addressed in particular the problem of temporary workers and said that they should be covered by the system, because the option is much worse. They come much worse out of a crisis if they are not covered. This is very clear in the investigation and proposal and in the legislation that is now dormant. Then, as Karolina Skog points out, there has been a proposal for short-term lay-offs to operate in a normal economic situation when an individual company or an industry is covered. However, I think it is wrong to say that the question of temporary staff is new. It is prepared and contained in the proposal which is dormant, which will apply precisely in the event of a particularly deep recession. The government now, I think, has two choices. Either you go back – and it is good that Karolina Skog shows an openness to it – and change the rule, or you activate the 2014 legislation so that the temporary workers are covered. The problem with this is perhaps that you then get two parallel systems, and that may not be entirely successful either. I therefore believe that it would be reasonable and proper to remove the provision, which does not work very well in a deep recession.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-147	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have thoroughly rubbed this issue in committee and had a close dialogue with the Ministry of Finance. An important point that has been made is that the requirement to dispose of consultants or temporary staff is not absolute. Also consultants and temporary staff can be considered critical of the business and thus have to remain in the company and in the system. It is important that this is made clear to everyone. We have also handled and rubbed the issue that Jakob Forssmed is now raising. This dialogue shows that an amendment to that part may upset the balance of the proposal. This needs to be considered more carefully instead of making rapid changes. These were the answers we, including Jakob Forssmed, received, and I have great respect for them. I also have great respect for all the good proposals that make the rules we now have through Parliament better. We'll take them to us and look at everything with great seriosity.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-150	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with a somewhat unorthodox statement: I must go immediately after my speech. Otherwise, I'll miss my only chance to get home. Even though I like any changes in lines very much, I like spending more time with my family. I hope that both the President and my fellow debaters will understand this precarious situation. We are debating today one of all the additional amending budgets that has been tabled and will continue to be presented at these very dramatic times. This is a serious situation for Sweden in many ways. It is about life and health, but it is also about protecting our economy. Among the proposals on which a decision is to be taken today are, among other things, the proposals on the abolition of withdrawals and on short-term lay-off, which in both cases have already begun to be used to a very large extent. More will come, but for the sake of form, I would like to support the committee's proposal. The debate today has been about more things than what we are actually going to decide on, and that is, of course, natural. It concerns the size of the interest rate, the forms of delimitation in the case of short-term lay-off, the demarcation and the size of the employer's contribution reductions, and so on. In principle, on one hundred per cent of the legitimate questions asked and the legitimate views put forward, the answer is that the proposals are designed as they are because it was the fastest way forward. Why is the threshold for the reduction in social security contributions 25 000? Well, it's because there was a complete line in the Tax Agency's system that allows this to be implemented retroactively from 1 March. Why does the interest look like it does? Well, it is because the current proposal from the financial crisis looked like that. For those of us who negotiated on this, the most important thing was to ensure that things came into place as soon as possible. It is better with a good solution quickly than with a perfect solution later. Now we are approaching a situation where many of these systems have come into operation, with their imperfections. But it is also time to see in the next step how we can safeguard, nurture and change these reforms. Then all these questions need to be asked. The perspective is needed, and sensitivity is needed. We need political sensitivity, where we listen to each other in the Committee on Finance and so on, as well as social sensitivity. We need to have more good talks with the social partners to see how we take further steps to protect Swedish jobs and companies. We have already shown that sensitivity, I would say. On a number of points, the Committee on Budgets has refined reforms and corrected things that are clearly wrong, and we have done so in the greatest agreement. I note in the debate that some think it is their merit. I have no such requests myself, but I can see that the changes we are making are being made in the greatest possible agreement. We listen to good arguments and reach agreement in the Committee on Finance. Let us continue along that path! This work must continue. It is about the further steps that we will have to take in the coming days, weeks and months. I hope and believe that some of them, including the rate of interest on the deferral of the tax account, will be able to be resolved in the coming days. The Center Party and I have no other ambitions. Madam President, I would like Now I thought I'd get home to the family.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-162	Madam President, I would like When you fall ill and need care, medicines, aids and medical devices are an important part of healthcare efforts. The pacemaker or heart medicine allows me to live a good life despite illness. This insulin allows type 1 diabetes to lead a good life. Different forms of devices such as insulin pumps, needles and other devices are also needed to test and measure blood glucose levels in order to handle the correct amount of insulin with diabetes. Yes, medicines, aids and medical devices are truly an integral part of healthcare. Research is the basis for the entire healthcare system, and it is necessary for us to have treatments and therapies that give effect but also to reduce side effects that can harm patients. Many years of research are behind each new product. It is vital that we have access to medicines and medical devices. Apoteken is an important link in the chain, a link that we Christian Democrats want to strengthen. Madam President, I would like Since the re-regulation of the pharmacy market in 2009, the availability, number of pharmacies and opening hours of pharmacies have increased. The vast majority, 93 percent, receive the medicines they need when they go to the pharmacy. At the same time, however, in recent years there have been more frequent shortages of single drugs. That's a real problem for a lot of people today. The reasons for the shortcomings vary. It has been from a factory that has burned to the fact that there is a shortage of the very small component required to produce a specific drug. Many parts of the manufacturing and supply chain need to be strengthened in order to reduce the risk of drug shortages. We Christian Democrats are pleased that the committee has, in full agreement, indicated that it is serious about the lack of medicines and that it intends to follow this issue together. It is then about the shortcomings we saw before covid-19, but of course the lack of preparedness we see right now will also require changes in different ways. Preparedness costs money. We have become dependent on so-called just-in-time deliveries. The advantage is obvious with reduced costs. But the disadvantage is greater. We saw it last fall, and we see it now. We will have to make significant changes. Madam President, I would like The pharmaceutical investigation has long left its final report. The referrals came in almost a year ago, and we are waiting for the message from the government: How do we proceed now? The lack of medicines and the need for joint funding for certain medicines and therapies are important issues, not least in the case of rare diseases. The new precision medicine is fantastic, but since it is tailored for each individual patient, it is also very expensive. We need a national strategy for precision medicine to ensure a successful structure for research and implementation in healthcare, but also to address ethical aspects and also create a plan for long-term funding. Madam President, I would like Once the patent for a medicinal product has expired, other pharmaceutical companies can start manufacturing the same medicinal product. These medicines, which contain the same active substance, are called generic medicines and are interchangeable with each other. Apoteken is then obliged to sell the generic medicine that has the lowest price during each month – the period's product – regardless of which medicine the doctor has written on the prescription. If you choose as a patient to keep the medicine prescribed by your doctor, you pay the difference yourself. This system is basically good, but there are problems. Apoteken is forced to keep stocks of a certain commodity for a very short time. After one month they must provide the next period's good. This creates difficulties in storage, not least for small pharmacies. The frequent switching of medicines is also stressful for multisick elderly people. The risk of medication error increases if they do not recognise the packaging. We also believe that it is important to take into account environmental considerations as a criterion when purchasing, in addition to prices, given that there is a great difference in consideration of negative environmental impacts in the manufacture of medicinal products in different countries. The current system of generic exchange therefore needs to be reviewed and reformed. That is why I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 4. As I mentioned earlier, we want to strengthen the role of pharmacies in the healthcare chain. As in many other countries, the pharmacy and its well-trained staff should be able to offer more pharmaceutical services than they do today. We therefore want to investigate the ability of pharmacists to do more. On the other hand, prescriptions for one medicinal product subject to prescription must be kept separate from the sale of the same medicinal product. Today, we have acquired a grey area through state-owned Apoteket AB's new collaboration with one of the digital healthcare services. We need to ensure that we are able to cope with the gulf between prescription and the sale of medicinal products. Madam President, I would like There are many issues with regard to pharmacies and medicines that require reform. It is therefore time for the Government to gather the referrals from the Pharmaceutical investigation, make its assessment of the situation and of the changes that need to be made and return to the Riksdag. We Christian Democrats look forward to being a constructive force in that work.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-179	Madam President, I would like This is a debate on pharmacy and pharmaceutical issues from general exercise time, but it will be in the light of the Corona crisis we see very topical. Then it is important that democracy and society in general work, not least in terms of ensuring the availability of medicines. Manufacturing, storage, logistics, threats of embargo, substances and what it means that these come from different parts of the world and are then put together to the drugs that are so vital to us comes in a completely different light. At the same time, it is important that, when some kind of normality returns, we from the Swedish side can continue to focus on progress, for example when it comes to powerful drugs. It is something that gives a lot of hope in today's and tomorrow's care. I would like to highlight cancer drugs, where development is extremely rapid. Today we have effective medicines that we did not have a few years ago or perhaps not even a few months ago. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the conditions be created for all cancer patients to benefit from new medicines and treatments in an equal way. Unfortunately, today we see large variations between different regions and patient groups. Many patients today have to wait far too long to get access to medicines despite the model of orderly introduction that exists. We consider moderates unacceptable that it should matter where in the country they live to take part in this. We Moderates are therefore prepared to earmark certain specific resources to strengthen equality in the introduction of certain new medicines so that they can more easily benefit patients, regardless of where they live in the country. The ear tag should be based on long-term agreements between state and region. A key challenge is to find an appropriate balance and balance between cost control for the state and reasonable medical costs for the individual. In the future, we know that we will see more targeted medicines, something that will change care and treatment in a very profound way. Madam President, I would like We Moderates also propose that the Government be given the task of developing a process aimed at carrying out regular and systematic follow-up of drug treatments. Unfortunately, today there are many patients who rarely or never get a drug follow-up, something that can of course have disastrous consequences. On 1 June 2020, the National List of Medicinal Products Act will enter into force, which is very welcome. However, a request has been received today from SKR to postpone the timetable for the introduction. In the current situation, this is understandable. However, it is important to stress the importance of the law being introduced as a matter of urgency as this leads to the patient becoming more involved in their own care and that the doctor or other prescriber can more easily follow a patient's drug treatment. Above all, patient safety is enhanced. It will be easier to prevent drug abuse or the wrong combination of medicines. The next step must be that the list of medicines is linked to the patient's medical records. Madam President, I would like Today, there are no medicines or vaccines approved for the treatment of covid-19. There are many research projects going on worldwide, and the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, has mobilised a special team to facilitate rapid approval. This pandemic needs a rapid medical solution. Here it is of the utmost importance that we have collaboration between research teams and authorities. We want this to happen quickly, but patient safety must not be compromised. I think that perhaps something positive can come out of this misery is that we find these opportunities to work quickly across borders. Madam President, I would like Pharmaceutical production and the production chains linked to it are complex. That's what we learned last fall. No country is self-sufficient in medicines, and we all now have a responsibility not to hoard over-the-counter medicines and not to pick out more prescription medicines than necessary. A focus when we return to some kind of normal state is to do a deep analysis to ensure a safe future supply of medicines. In today's situation, the focus is, of course, on securing access and, in times of great staff shortages, also on patient safety. My guess is that issues related to drugs will be in focus for a long time to come. As my colleague has just said, we Moderates look forward to the government coming back with a series of proposals. We also look forward to being a constructive partner in the debate and discussion that will come.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-193	Madam President, I would like At a time when covid-19 spreads quickly, the preparedness in our country is being tested – a preparedness that in many ways is our Achilles heel. There are many risk factors that we must take seriously. As far as pharmaceuticals are concerned, Sweden is completely dependent on foreign pharmaceutical companies, and the presence of residual quotations creates enormous insecurity. In recent times we have been able to see how the number of leftover drugs creates a shortage. It is also an ongoing trend in Europe and globally. There is currently no authority or other actor fully responsible for the supply of medicinal products. Nor do we have legislation that can impose demands on pharmaceutical suppliers. The study that Lund University had to carry out on behalf of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare highlighted the need to form a new authority to deal with the problem of residual quotations. Access to medical supplies and protective equipment is also a very important issue, as we know. This is not something to be handled in the middle of an ongoing pandemic. Both drugs and equipment should be ready. We must also set up required continuity management and required stock management. Everything else is scandalous and unworthy of a welfare country like Sweden. As far as the need for vaccines is concerned, Sweden is dependent on pandemic vaccine guarantees, which means that we pay large amounts of money for a guarantee of vaccines when there is a need. Instead, in our neighbouring country, Denmark, there is a government vaccine production, which has previously also been planned in Sweden. This is something that the Swedish Democrats believe we need to re-launch and investigate more closely. When the swine flu broke out in 2009, the vaccine ran out. Then we had agreements similar to the one we have today. It is therefore also important that we look at the possibilities of a state-owned production of vaccines in the future. We must get out of our dependence as soon as possible and secure access to vital medicines and medical equipment. That is our duty and our absolute responsibility. Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, the government finally concluded that the national testing for covid-19 should be extended in order, among other things, to prevent a major loss of health care personnel, care and other socially important activities. Health professionals are a critical profession for society that must be prioritised and tested. It should have already been an effective measure. We know that the European Disease Control Agency has previously called for priority to be given to risk groups and health professionals when the availability of test kits and reagents is limited. In order to prevent the spread of infection, we need to be one step ahead, not several steps behind, and we should also take this with us in the future. Madam President, I would like All the focus in these times is on the coronavirus spread and to handle the same. At present, everything else is secondary, and so must it be. However, I would like to raise my eyes for a moment and comment on the forthcoming EU legislation on medical devices. Over the last decade there have been over 3,700 reports of deaths and injuries, which are highly likely to have been caused by medical devices. In addition, 5 000 notifications have been made when a risk of injury has been detected. We do not currently have a government authority to ensure the quality of implants before they are to be operated on. However, medicines are carefully tested through regulatory control. In the case of medicinal products, the requirements are also much higher for clinical studies. We are now waiting, as I said, for a new EU law on medical devices. Unfortunately, at the moment we can already see that the CE marking will remain. It is quite remarkable that high-risk medical devices are subject to the same controls as children's toys, for example, although medical devices can have a life-support function. From the outset, the Commission considered that the EU Medicines Agency would be responsible for the scrutiny and control of medical devices. However, following a massive resistance from the industry, the Commission withdrew and the current system will therefore continue to apply. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is not the industry that should decide the outcome. Patient safety must come first, and now we need to act nationally. Sweden needs a framework with clear structures to ensure that the medical devices used are subject to the same thorough control as pharmaceuticals. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats support all their requests, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-211	Madam President, I would like To debate medicines and pharmacies in this House is always very interesting and important, not least in times like this when the country is in the midst of an ongoing crisis. The role of pharmacies, the knowledge of pharmacists and the availability of medicinal products have become highly topical. Recently, more and more people in the country have started to hoard, and this applies not only to toilet paper but also to medicine and drugs that people have collected in large quantities. In mid-March, therefore, pharmacies and retailers were invited to help. The call then was an initiative to counter hoarding effects and to ensure that all citizens have access to the non-prescription medicines they need. Only yesterday, April 1, came a new government decision that pharmacies are not allowed to supply a larger quantity of medicine than the amount the patient needs for a three-month period. We do not have a shortage of medicines today, but if everyone picks up their annual consumption, there will be nothing on the shelves of pharmacies. If, on the other hand, everyone collects medicines for three months at a time, stocks can be replenished. As I said, the question of pharmaceuticals and pharmacies has become a most topical issue. The availability of medicines and how to secure the country's preparedness, how to create buffers in the global just-in-time system with sales stocks at manufacturers, importers, regions and the Public Health Agency and how to develop the storage obligation that some authorities have, there is every reason to come back to after we have come out of the Corona crisis. Linked to the fact that we in society today have started to talk about and think seriously about the lack of medicines, I will be unsettlingly thinking about how we deal with the drugs that we actually have. One problem in healthcare today is that fully functional medicines, which could be used in other health care establishments, must be discarded. Activities with large medical supplies may sometimes have to dispose of a variety of medicines that have passed the best-before-date. The fact that such a large amount of medicine is being wasted around the country is untenable. Medicinal products handled within a closed distribution chain should therefore be returned, provided that it is possible to do so in a patient-safe and administratively feasible manner. Madam President, I would like I believe that pharmacies will play an even greater role in future health care, not least in view of the transition towards close care that we are in the middle of and that we will see more of. That we should have accessible and equal care throughout the country is probably something that most parties in this House agree on. But when it comes to how the road is going to look like, we differ a lot. If we consider the structure of pharmacies in the country today, we can see that they are all over the country, and often far out in the countryside and in sparsely populated areas. Apoteken is indeed a resource that we could develop even more. The development that we have been able to see in some pharmacies, where patients are accepted from a nurse, who in turn has a connection and contact with a doctor via a link, is a fantastic development that I and the Center Party would like to see more of. It is a service and a form of care that could be a fantastic complement and a relief to ordinary care, not least in rural areas. In all healthcare today, we are developing digital services at a rapid pace. Not least now during the crisis, we see that the development of digital health services, where you can even meet your specialist doctor via a digital app or service, has been very fast. A more digitised care, where pharmacies are an important part, can free up welfare resources, increase understanding of people's health needs and create more equivalence across the country. Therefore, we need to ensure that our legislation is adapted to this new reality and that society's infrastructure is able to cope with the fact that more and more important pharmacy and healthcare services will be carried out over the internet. There are, above all, two parts in pharmacies and pharmaceuticals which, of course, should already be digital. The first is about e-recipes. Much of the fraud that is currently taking place with prescriptions takes place with the physical yellow recipe slips – those that we have received in our hands at all times. In the vast majority of cases, it is possible to switch completely to a digital system for managing recipes. That is why the government should investigate this as soon as possible. The second part is about being able to have a pharmacist digitally at a distance. Today it is possible to call a doctor remotely and get a diagnosis, but it is not possible to treat a medicine locally with a pharmacist remotely. Laws and regulations are based on physical pharmacies and not a digitized world with new opportunities. Today, the law requires that those who are to retail medicinal products for consumers should have the premises staffed with one or more pharmacists during their opening hours. If we look a little forward, I am afraid that many pharmacies will be forced to close because a large proportion of pharmacists will retire and there will be a shortage profession. Whether we make efforts for more people to educate themselves, we will not be able to meet the challenge, because the training for pharmacists is very long. That is why we need to think new and open up to new ways. The Swedish Medical Products Agency's regulations are also an obstacle to the full exploitation of the possibilities of digitalisation. In my opinion, the relevant legislation should be reviewed in order to promote the possibility of opening pharmacies with pharmacists remotely. Madam President, I would like That is why I am in favour of reservation 13, but of course I also support the other reservations of the Center Party.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-227	Madam President, I would like Sweden took a very important step in 2009 by liberalising the whole pharmaceutical industry and pharmacies and commercialising pharmacies – the great liberalisation. It was a boost specifically for the private pharmacy chains, and the large chains have now developed oligarchies. Before that, Sweden had also removed the emergency stocks. It was Apoteket AB who was responsible for having stock. I will talk about this later. Now we need to rebuild this, I would say in these coronatides – large Swedish state and national stocks of medicines, protective equipment and vaccines. That is an absolute necessity. I and my party, the Left Party, are among those who would like to see the health infrastructure publicised and owned by all of us, not by private interests. Madam President, I would like In mid-September 2019, there were almost 380 medicines on the MPA's list of medicines that were listed, i.e. medicines that could not be obtained. These were, for example, medicines for very serious diagnoses. The international trend is that a few private and profit-making companies increasingly control access to and production of medicines. This means, of course, increased risks with both the availability and over-consumption of drugs due to the pursuit of profits. We can see, for example, the opiate disaster in the United States based on how you have worked in the pharmaceutical industry there. A new concept has been learned by all of us during the Corona period, namely precisely in time– narrow production, not stocks. As a result, for example, protective equipment and important medicines are not stored. Reduced layers also create risks in a normal mode. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at this. In 2018, the national risk and ability assessment for 2016 concluded that Sweden continues to be dependent on imports of medicinal products. Sweden's domestic production of medicines is small and no vaccines are produced nationally. At the same time, pharmacies, hospitals and wholesalers have reduced their stocks. How good did it get? Madam President, I would like The pharmaceutical manufacturing system in Sweden and in other countries with a lack of requirements for storage creates risk situations for thousands of people. We believe that the pharmacy industry, as a collective, should be obliged precisely as regards storage. Some pharmacies are small and are sometimes asked for unusual medicines. It is therefore reasonable for pharmacies as a collective to assume this responsibility, perhaps within groups or between different pharmacies. The MPA should also be given the task of designing regulations for this. This includes creating safe systems for the rapid delivery of medicines that cannot be tolerated. Today, there is no overall responsibility for the availability of medicines. The MPA collects information and monitors developments. There would be a need for a central actor and a clear division of responsibilities regarding who should do what. Those who prescribe and handle medicines must have full knowledge of what is available, but there must also be an authority that has knowledge of everything from the availability of producers to those in need of medicines. The Swedish Medical Products Agency has extensive knowledge of the situation in pharmaceutical management and is best placed to take overall responsibility. Madam President, I would like We believe that the Swedish Medical Products Agency should be given responsibility for a national list of residual medicines with flows from pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and health care. I therefore request the approval of reservation 8. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its review that responsibility for the total defence supply of medicinal products was entrusted to Apoteket AB until commercialisation in 2009 and then transferred to the market, i.e. to no one at all. It is not possible to release such a central mission wind by wave. There must be a state responsibility for the supply of medicinal products to the total defense. In the event of national and international crises, there must be access to medicines that cannot stand up. We need to think about this for the future.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-239	Madam President, I would like We need many improvements, I would say, with regard to the use of medicines in Sweden. We need to take better account of the environment when we approve, when we assess what should be prescription-free and when we procure our medicines. We need to ensure that drug use is safe, equal and safe. It shouldn't matter where you live. Nor should it matter what disease you suffer or how common or unusual it is. We need knowledge and good follow-up. We also need a greater role for pharmacies in Swedish healthcare; they can do more. In the fight against the new Corona virus, we are not least reminded of how vulnerable we are to humans, how vulnerable our supply of medicines is, Madam President, and how incredibly important it is to expect the unexpected. But we don't today. We don't expect the unexpected. The medical system is not equipped. There's a shortage of pharmaceutical supplies. We do not have the stocks we would have needed now, either in intensive care, in infection departments or elsewhere. In some areas this may become an emergency. Recently, Dagens Nyheter reported on the risks of Sweden's lack of stocks of vital medicines. Authorities and experts have warned for years that we cannot afford to take a chance on this. We need these layers – that's how simple it is. That is why we Liberals this autumn raised a parliamentary motion on preparedness for medicines. This proposal is based on Finland's model and on research from Lund University on how the supply of medicines can be secured in everyday life and – of course – not least in the event of crises, regardless of what such a crisis may be due to and whether it is a matter of increased preparedness, war or an unusually stressed everyday life. We did not know then that covid-19 would paralyze virtually the whole of our planet, but now we see very clearly and far too quickly how important this stockpiling and preparedness would have been if we had had it. Madam President, I am in favour of our reservation 9 in paragraph 8 on the stocks of medicinal products and the strengthening of work to combat the shortage of medicinal products. Sure – stocks cost money. That's the way it is. But it is also costly, not least in health and life, Madam President, not to be prepared. In private life, it can be cheaper not to take out home insurance – until something happens. That is exactly how it is for our common cause. The question is now in danger of being put to the fore. The enormous challenges facing Swedish healthcare and, not least, fragile elderly people mean that we cannot afford to wait another parliamentary year for a yes to vital fluids, substances and intensive care treatments. We need this drug stock. Work needs to start immediately to secure the supply of medicines throughout the country, starting now, throughout this pandemic and whatever happens to us, our country and the people who live here in the future.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-247	Madam President, I would like The fact that we get the medicines we need and that health care has access to the medicines needed for treatment is taken for granted. Unfortunately, however, as many have mentioned in the speaker's chair here today, residual quotations are becoming more common. Rest quotations simply mean that the medicine you should have is not available. In the light of the ongoing pandemic of covid-19, when the entire global system is under pressure, the availability of medicines becomes even more difficult and important, while the whole world is looking for drug availability and vaccinations. At a time like this, it feels even more important to stand here today and discuss pharmaceutical issues. We see the importance of being able to guarantee that our citizens receive medicines for their disease. It is now that society's crisis management and preparedness are visible and tested in every detail. However, as early as August 2018, the government appointed a special investigator to review the health care preparedness for serious events in peacetime and in case of increased preparedness. Last year, the government gave another assignment. It was necessary to review, consider and analyse the necessary measures to prevent and deal with situations arising from a shortage of healthcare materials and medicines. There is every reason to come back to this issue after the pandemic, Madam President. At the same time, one is impressed by the measures being taken and by how the whole of Sweden mobilizes. This shows once again that Sweden is at its best when we cooperate. Madam President, I would like Let me return to the serious problem of the lack of medicines, which has been highlighted by all parties in this House today. It is a trend that is, unfortunately, becoming more common, and it is a global problem. This development is mainly due to reduced margins at all stages. This increases the vulnerability of the system. The supply of medicines is a complex system. The logistics chain goes from manufacturing to storage and administration of pharmaceuticals. In a market-driven system, profit maximization is a salute word. But I believe that there are many of us who have been critical and that even more have become critical of such a system of socially important functions. Then, of course, the re-regulation of the pharmacy market has played a role. Of course, the availability of pharmacies in many parts of the country has improved, but the coordination of medicines and storage has become worse. What concerns me and many others is the concentration of pharmaceutical production, which is currently mainly taking place in Asia. It is difficult as a single nation to influence the world market. However, Sweden will continue to highlight the need for action to address the root causes at EU level but also at global level. During 2019, the Government decided on a commission to the Swedish Medical Products Agency to improve information regarding national access to medicines. But also the pharmaceutical companies and the pharmacy chains are now working hard and have taken on board the issues to contribute their share. Also at EU level, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has started work on the lack of medicines in the EU Member States. Work is still under way in the Government Office to identify and analyse further measures and, in particular, to develop measures to address future shortcomings, which are also an important area in the national pharmaceutical strategy. The ongoing work on surveys and studies is expected to contribute to a better understanding of the problems and better opportunities to take appropriate action. I am pleased that we are a united committee which supports the need to resolve the situation with the rest of the list. Madam President, I would like The introduction of a national list of medicines is very important, and I think we are all waiting for it to be completed. The list of medicines will contribute to increased patient safety, but it will also contribute to improved quality. Then, of course, work on the list must be linked to privacy issues and law, but it is clear that it will provide completely different tools. In November 2016, the Government appointed a pharmaceutical investigation – the report came a year ago – that has reviewed the future financing of medicines, which ones will have access to medicines and how much they will cost. The economic aspect here is very important, and I would like to stress that we Social Democrats think that everyone who lives in our elongated country should have access to the medicines that are needed. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to mention the ongoing huge pool of forces launched in pharmaceutical industries and states in order to obtain as quickly as possible effective treatments against covid-19 and, in the longer term, vaccines against the Corona virus. One is very impressed by the ongoing work and the global cooperation. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-MYZmH8DGvxv6DtFqw2HBSe	Mr President, I would like to So there was a video conference of EU Heads of State or Government last Thursday, and it was the third such conference in the wake of the Corona crisis.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-264	中 reduce the spread of infection 中 Secure access to medical devices
i-d29814b0fb157b52-267	Addressing socio-economic impacts Help citizens stranded in countries outside the EU. The meeting began with the President of the European Parliament, David Sassoli, highlighting the importance of EU cooperation in combating the Corona crisis and the fact that the crisis must not lead the EU to abandon its long-term political priorities. The Green Deal was mentioned here in particular. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the Commission, outlined some of the measures taken. She stressed the importance of ensuring that the internal market functions as well as possible in the current circumstances. In particular, she pointed out that the export bans imposed by some countries had to be removed. Both the President and the President of the Commission also highlighted the role of the future long-term budget as part of the response to the crisis. The President of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, and the President of the Eurogroup, Mário Centeno were also given the opportunity to give their picture of the situation. There followed a table round focusing on the functioning of the internal market in general and a little more specifically on medical devices and on the socio-economic consequences in the short and long term. I and several others stressed the importance of developing a strategy for the way out of the crisis when that day comes so that we can get back to a normal functioning economy. The discussion clearly showed how serious the situation is in Europe, although countries are at different stages and some countries have been hit harder than others. From several quarters, it was pointed out that we are now in the worst crisis since the end of World War II. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the more immediate economic measures, the discussion boiled down to two main issues, on the one hand, on corona bonds and, on the other, on how to construct crisis support from the ESM. Despite a long and sometimes hard discussion, there were no conditions for resolving these issues at the meeting. Instead, the solution was to mandate the Eurogroup to deliver some further proposals to meet the Corona crisis within two weeks. In this work, the Eurogroup should take into account the unprecedented crisis that Europe is experiencing and that it affects all EU countries. The President of the Commission will now draw up a road map and an action plan in consultation with the President of the European Council and other relevant institutions, in particular the European Central Bank. At the end of the meeting, Josep Borrell, the EU's Foreign Secretary, outlined recent contacts with Turkey. No agreement was reached in this part in addition to the general text contained in the statement. The European Council will come back to this issue. Mr President, I would like to This concludes my comments on the occasion of last week's meeting. Before Question Time begins, let me say a few words about the situation in Sweden. The crisis we are going through will take time. We're not talking about weeks, we're talking about months. It is first and foremost a crisis for life and health, but it also has serious effects on the Swedish economy and the labour market. The coming weeks will be a test for our entire country.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-278	Mr President, I would like to Now it's time to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. One of the tasks is to strengthen Swedish healthcare, limit the spread of infection and protect risk groups. The second task is to save the economy from a complete crash. The Moderates have therefore proposed greater direct support for threatened companies and broad sampling so as to be able to restart the Swedish economy as soon as possible. But we must also protect vital Swedish interests that may be threatened in the wake of the Corona crisis. During and after Corona, Swedish companies may face acute profitability problems, low values and a weak Swedish krona. Many companies will depend on new capital to cope with the crisis. Foreign investment in Swedish companies has been and will be important for creating jobs and strengthening Swedish competitiveness in a global economy. But right now, a small and open economy is in a very vulnerable position, and we cannot be naive. Sweden still has no regulatory framework to review and ultimately stop foreign direct investment that could threaten national Swedish interests. This could be about infrastructure and energy. It may also involve state-owned companies in centrally managed countries wanting to buy up technology companies at the forefront. The issue was raised from the beginning of 2018 by the EU. So far there is only one Swedish investigation, and it should not be completed until November 2021. This is not enough. A temporary audit function for foreign direct investment would be urgently needed.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-285	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that it is these two main tracks that apply. We must limit the spread of infection and ensure that health care is given the resources and do the best we can to save as many jobs and businesses as it ever can. We will not be able to save everyone, but we must all help each other to alleviate the effects. There are a few more things in the strategy that are important. Among other things, it is about securing the critical activities of society, alleviating the anxiety as best we can and helping to obtain information. Much needs to be done here and now, but it is quite correct that we also need to think about the next phase and the next step. How do we get the economy going when that time comes? We are not there yet, and so we must both put resources here and now and think that there will be some time after that. Of course, this also includes important Swedish interests. That is why we have started legislative work, and then we have to start with an investigation. In the wake of the security strategy decided by the Government in 2017, the work is being developed in a number of areas, and one of them is precisely this: How do we ensure that vital Swedish interests are protected? It is important to identify what these important interests are so that we can get a broad agreement on what is to be protected, what is number one and so on. Then we need legislation in place. In parallel, as Mr Kristersson pointed out, the European Union is working on this and the implementation of this European legislation, which we have just got back, is under way. It is out for a referral so that we can do something faster than 2021, when the entire investigation is completed. The referral work is ongoing, and when we get it in, we will speed up the treatment as much as possible.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-292	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that we see the same problem in this. Just so I understand correctly: does this mean that the government is prepared to anticipate this issue sooner than the end date of the investigation so that we can have a mechanism, either temporary or definitive, in place in the near future so that, in principle, immediately after the Corona crisis, there is a regulatory framework that makes us not very vulnerable to this? If this is not the case, I would recommend using the existing legal possibilities and broadening them a little. One variant is to use the law on the control of dual-use items and technical assistance. The inspection of strategic products could be given a broader remit. There are several proposals circulating. Does the Prime Minister see any chance of getting permanent legislation in place at the end of this year?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-296	Mr President, I would like to What I referred to is the legislation that the European Union has in this area. It must be implemented in each country, which is why we have allowed the investigation to work. Now we get back a proposal that is referred back to us. That's how the preparation process must be. In addition, a more comprehensive piece of legislation will take a little more time, for exactly the same reason: we have an obligation to prepare according to the Swedish Constitution. We'll hurry as much as we can. If there is other legislation to be adopted, we are no stranger to it. We are open to discussing this, because it is an important problem. We need to help each other here and identify what is vital and strategically important for Sweden and protect it. We must not be naive these days. In addition, financial resources will be required, and we need to think about how we can help each other to ensure that there is an economy in case we need to go in with money.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister. And above all, thank you to all the people around our country who are currently doing what they can to stop this virus's terrible advance! In a difficult time, there will be an injection of hope when you see how many people respond to the threat by showing themselves on their very best and most human side. In the struggle that our whole society is fighting against Corona, it is the health professionals who are at the forefront. When the rest of us stay away from the infected, it is their job to do exactly the opposite. This presents a risk. That there are people who are prepared to take this risk to save us, we are eternally grateful. That is precisely why it is extremely tragic to hear reports from health professionals around the country who are afraid because they are forced to care for corona patients without adequate protective equipment. Year after year, my party has put forward proposals here in Parliament that we must reintroduce emergency stocks, because there needs to be protective material in place before a crisis comes. Every time the government has voted against our proposals, and now we stand there. The crisis is here, and we are not prepared. This is a totally unacceptable situation. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how does he view his own responsibility for the fact that health professionals around the country are currently in a very dangerous situation?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-304	Mr President, I would like to Of course, all health professionals should feel safe in their work. That is why there is too much work going on to ensure that protective equipment is properly used in all workplaces that need it. There is a lot of hard work going on now to get home the protective equipment that we had actually ordered and paid for but that other countries stopped the shipment of to Sweden. The work has been intensive, and therefore we have been able to release important equipment to Sweden. We will also ensure that the domestic production of equipment is increased to cover up. That it's a bottleneck, there's no doubt-- it's just as good to be honest with it. That's why we have to do everything we can to get the volumes up. As far as the government is concerned, based on the security strategy from 2017, which I referred to earlier, we have started work to ensure that we get a different and higher level of preparedness for healthcare in Sweden. It includes this, and we will come back with information on the situation in the near future. One day, after the Corona crisis, we will need to increase preparedness in Sweden in many areas. I am therefore pleased that we have begun this work. It concerns both infectious diseases and transport. We cannot rule out further terrorist attacks in our country. We have the energy supply. Natural disasters will come upon us. Then Sweden must be equipped in a different way. I am therefore pleased that we have begun this work. I hope that we can create a broad consensus that we will increase preparedness in Sweden and strengthen civil defence and total defence.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-308	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. The lack of protective equipment that we now see is the responsibility of the government. It is the government that should have made sure that Sweden was equipped to face a crisis, but this has not been done. There will be a time when the government will have to answer for it. But right now we are in the midst of the crisis, and we need to focus on the urgent problem ahead. We are putting forward our own proposals on how health professionals can quickly get enough protective equipment in place, and we will support all the proposals put forward by the government that are working in this direction. At the moment, we would like to have an answer to an urgent question: when will the Swedish health care professional have access to sufficient protective equipment?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-312	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like there is no protective equipment at all. That's the wrong picture. We need to get the volumes up when it comes to protective equipment-- that's true. The formal responsibility lies with the regions. They must be prepared, also for this type of event. That is the fundamental responsibility. Now that we have seen that we have a shortage, we have made sure that the National Board of Health and Welfare has become a national purchaser and that protective equipment is distributed and comes first where it is most needed. Now it is important that we deal with this situation in a short time and that, when we now have a report ready that will be presented shortly, we see how we can take it further so that there is a sustainable preparedness in Sweden.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-316	Mr President, I would like to The Corona virus has put our world and society in a crisis that is difficult to fully grasp at present. What we already know, however, is that many people spend more time at home than usual. The fact that those who can work at home do this is positive, but the new situation creates great insecurity and potential danger to the lives of women and children living in the midst of violent relationships or other forms of abuse. Seven out of ten women murdered in Sweden are murdered by their partner, and now we get reports of how sexual crimes against children online are increasing rapidly. The Center Party, together with the government, has ensured that money has been properly contributed to both municipalities and regions, but also to the organisations working on these issues. However, the Center Party wants to see further measures in the form of legislation with increased penalties for this type of crime. This may involve increased punishments for gross female poverty and for all rape crimes, abolition of the limitation period for sexual offences against children and a change that means that the parent who has used deadly violence against a child's other parent will never be able to have sole custody of the child. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is he and the government prepared to support the demand for these changes and to ensure that we can get legislation in place as quickly as possible that makes no one have to fear for their own lives in their own home?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-320	Mr President, I would like to I, too, am pleased that we have been able to provide such substantial resources that so much we can protect the women and children who are victims of both violence and sexual abuse. There's more to it. We are now ensuring that the organisations receive this support, and they are making great efforts. As far as legislative work is concerned, there is no current issue. But we have already raised over 50 penalties in Swedish legislation. I think it shows very clearly how we view this problem. With great probability there will be more of that commodity. I cannot say exactly what penalty rates we are going to raise, but we cannot rule out this being followed by increased penalties. We have a huge problem in our society. I'm afraid it's not obvious. More should be reported about all the women and children who are exposed. This applies, not least, to the situation that prevails now that many are at home. The perpetrators are at home in a completely different way than they have been before. We therefore need to do more. Unfortunately, today I cannot answer Anders W. Jonsson exactly what penalty rates need to be tightened up.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. There is a very broad commitment here in the Swedish Parliament to these vulnerable groups. But in the situation of an ongoing crisis, it is very important that we see that this group gets it considerably more difficult given that you are within the four walls of the home. It is therefore important not to lose momentum with regard to legislative work. Money for organisations, municipalities and regions will not solve all the problems. It is also important now to move forward gradually with legislation to support the group and prevent further violence in close relations. My hope is that the Prime Minister and the Government will continue to have this perspective, even in these times of crisis. We in the Center Party will have it.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-326	Mr President, I would like to I have no other opinion. It is clear that this perspective is important. Many get into serious trouble and are exposed to both abuse and sexual abuse. This must be the focus. Those who are most difficult normally get worse in a situation like this. Of course, we have to do something. I therefore think it is right that we should ensure that more resources are available here and now for municipalities, civil society organisations, women's shelters and others who can make great efforts in the short term. Let us then discuss what needs to be done in the area of legislation.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-329	Mr President and Mr Löfven, the President-in-Office of the Council. We are in a serious crisis. It's a health crisis. A lot of people get sick. It is a crisis for health care, which is under pressure. It is a crisis for the Swedish economy. The Left Party appreciates the close dialogue that we have with the government in terms of rapidly taking decisive action. We are pleased that you have carried out what we have also proposed. Karen's day is gone from health insurance. The requirement for a medical certificate has been relaxed. There is a substantial improvement in the unemployment fund, so that many of those who lose their jobs can now enjoy financial protection. I also find it commendable that the government has been so quick to correct itself when they received a majority against themselves in the Committee on Finance. We will vote this afternoon on short-term leave. There will now be a condition that, when receiving this support, dividends will not be paid at the same time. The support will also be available to family members in family businesses. I think the cooperation with the government has been good. We are very pleased with the decision on the unemployment benefit that has been made. As a result, thousands of those who are now losing precarious jobs enter an a-cash office or join a trade union and thus receive basic financial protection. Without it, many would have been in acute financial trouble and would have had to turn to the social services for support. This also shows that the unemployment fund in Sweden has had major weaknesses. Many have experienced that they have not provided the protection they should have given. In particular, many people who have temporary and precarious employment have not felt that it made sense even to be part of the unemployment fund. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: is it not a good idea to keep the improvements that are now taking place so that they do not become temporary? This could be used as a way to strengthen protection in Sweden in the event of unemployment.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-335	Mr President, I would like to I acknowledge the cooperation in Parliament and the rapid treatment that Parliament has achieved. I've said it several times and I'm happy to say it again. The fact that proposals have been put forward to improve the original proposals is a good thing. We need to help each other. This is about both the infection and the health care system, but not least also about the jobs. It is important that we ensure that as few people as possible get rid of the job. That is why support for industry is extremely important. These include short-term lay-offs, a reduction in employers' contributions and sickness pay. All this is good, because we are thereby making it easier for businesses to retain their workforce. We also knew that some would be unemployed. Some are already part of an unemployment fund and are already covered by the protection, but some do not. This affects them as individuals, but it also affects the whole economy because they will not be able to contribute to the economy. This was therefore an important step. Of course, we've been thinking about this before. The party that I lead went to elections to change unemployment insurance to make it more accessible. A review of the a-cassage is under way. Among other things, membership conditions and working conditions are discussed. Today we have another labour market with a couple of hundred thousand hourly workers and a hundred thousand needs workers. The labour market looks different. These people, too, need protection. There's work going on. Therefore, I do not want to say that the change that has now been made is exactly the one that will then exist. But I definitely see the need – I think everyone does now – and that unemployment insurance is important for individuals but also for our whole society. That's how it's supposed to be. We should not have people who cannot participate and who are poor, but we should have security in our country.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-340	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I take it as a will to have better unemployment insurance after the crisis than we had before the crisis. I have another question relating to the Corona epidemic. The Agency for Health and Care Analysis issued a report the other day stating that private health insurance means that patients with less medical needs today take precedence over gender for patients with greater medical needs. This applies in particular to private health care providers. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's view on this in a situation in which health care is under great strain and is forced to give priority. Is it reasonable for private insurance solutions to mean that it is not the person who has the greatest need that first receives the resources and care of the health care system?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-342	Mr President, I would like to I can answer that very briefly. Access to healthcare is determined by the greatest need. I think we are in broad agreement on this. That also applies to the profession. The medical college is very clear about this. All healthcare professionals and everyone in the healthcare sector believe that the person most in need should have first access. This is a very clear moral principle. I think, of course, that it should apply regardless of the location. The greatest need is what should determine.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-345	Mr President, I would like to The Wuhan virus is subjecting our society to great trials. I am proud of the solidarity that the Swedish people show with older people and risk groups every day by following the recommendations of the Swedish Public Health Agency. I know the Prime Minister is, too. I also share the Prime Minister's view that rapid and well-targeted economic measures are needed to prevent the public health crisis from becoming an even deeper economic crisis. I therefore welcome the government's desire to make it easier for business through reduced employers' contributions. However, the proposal before us has raised a number of questions. Each company shall receive a reduction for the equivalent of 30 employees. But our business is structured differently. Max Hamburger's restaurants, for example, are a single company, a legal entity, and then receive a reduction for the equivalent of 30 employees. McDonalds, on the other hand, is a franchise group. In principle, each restaurant has its own legal personality. They can thus receive a total amount of support equivalent to thousands of people. We see the same problem in several sectors. For example, instead of an aid allocated per legal person, it would have been possible to target the aid to precisely those sectors which are experiencing difficulties and to allocate a smaller aid per employee. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the government view the risk of indirectly distorting competition in the business sector in a serious crisis?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-350	Mr President, I would like to It has been important for us to support business as best we can with various measures: direct cost reductions, liquidity provision, loan opportunities and so on. Here it is important to work as fast as it ever can, because now it is urgent. That is also what the industries are telling us. Only today I read the comment: Rather fast but not completely perfect than late and perfect. Of course, we are doing the best we can. All the rules that are being introduced are we prepared to review: Was it good? Or do we need to adjust the rules in some way? I cannot say that this is the case. We were very clear that the main focus is on smaller companies. That's why it came to apply to 30 employees in this regulatory framework. I do not have a proposal for any change in the regulatory framework now. We are not supposed to distort competition, but one has to have a rule, and somewhere there is a limit. This is the regulatory framework we have now, but we are not closed in any part. We are open to looking at various suggestions. If there's something that doesn't work, we might consider looking at it. But I have no concrete proposal in this particular section.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-353	Mr President, I would like to The state will set the rules of the market. They should be long-term and easy to understand. The state should not choose which companies become winners or losers. I share the Prime Minister's reasoning – the important thing is that strong action is being taken now, and there must be transparency to adjust along the way. With today's proposal, there is a great risk that the state will contribute to distortions of competition in a situation where very many companies find it difficult to survive anyway. Then my question is, Mr President: should I interpret the Prime Minister's answer as being transparent in order to adjust the proposal on employers' contributions too, so that it does not distort competition and so that it also reaches companies that are at risk of going down in this crisis and not just save some?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-355	Mr President, I would like to I am not prepared to answer yes to that question right now. I am not prepared to say exactly what adjustments need to be made. We are now introducing various simplifications and support to help business in real life. If we see that something is not working and that there are good reasons for changes, we are prepared to look at it. We've been saying that all along. All suggestions are received. But I am not prepared to say here and now exactly what changes are to be made. It wants a little more thought. Again: We will always end up in boundaries, and someone will be on the wrong side of the border. Someone has organized themselves in their own way, which leads to a certain effect, someone in a different way. To fork in all those details I think will be difficult, so I don't want to answer yes to the question here and now.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-358	Mr President, I would like to It's a time of trial for the nation. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the efforts he is making in this difficult situation. As I said, we help from all kinds of parties and in the Riksdag to make this move forward. It is important to have several perspectives now that this black swan has entered the Swedish economy, the European economy and the world economy and puts things at its head. After decades of stock exchange development and increased property prices, they are now being pushed down. It risks having spill-over effects far into the Swedish economy for a long time. Then we have to do more, I think. At this point, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about Swedish trade, which is extremely vulnerable. There are a lot of people working there. A lot of people get their first job there. It is an important part of Swedish industry alongside industry. What we are trying to do is to lift certain rent costs. There are quite a few costs involved. In Sweden, it is so strange that the turnover cost of a normal trading company is twice as high as that of a similar company in the United States or the United Kingdom. The Swedish commercial rentals are very high and inflated. If you do not now come up with a solution that is sustainable for both property owners' organisations and Swedish trade and business organisations, how can the Prime Minister think of moving forward in order to make more efforts? If we do not do that now, we risk being hurled back decades in development. Mass unemployment in trade is at the door. It's like it's on the slopes. We need to make sure this is in place. Can the Prime Minister take further action and put pressure on these actors?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-363	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Liberals. I would like to emphasise that everyone is helping each other. Everyone's doing an amazing job. It's important. It is undoubtedly one of Sweden's forces. When we look at the premonition figures and who is affected, we see, of course, that trade is affected. But almost half of the notice applies to hotels or restaurants. It is also the case that different parts of the trade are affected in different ways. In fact, there are also some trade going very well. In this case too, I cannot say here and now that we are going to do this or that improvement. I believe that what we have done in terms of rent costs will mean a substantial reduction, provided that those who rent out are in favour of it. Now, in fact, there is a moral pressure on them not to say that we are not going to be in on this. If the state has set aside a big pot of money to enable a reduction in rent, I think that the pressure should be on them: Now you help out here and get the rent down! This will mean a substantial reduction in rent costs. In addition, we also have short-term lay-offs for these companies, the assumption of sickness pay, employers' contributions that can be reduced and so on. Overall, there should be good support for trade as well.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-367	Mr President, I would like to Liberals sincerely hope that it will be right and that agreement will be reached. However, from a liberal point of view, we believe that much more needs to be done in this area. We'll have to get back to you. Even though Parliament is very small at the moment in terms of the number of Members, we have always meetings to ensure that we support the Swedish business community, which is the basis for our future prosperity. There's no shortcut. We can't just take money out of state cash. Finally, I want to reconnect with what Moderate Leader Ulf Kristersson was thinking about the importance of protecting business. In recent years, not least a large country in the east – I mean further away than Russia – has devoted itself to making quite aggressive purchases in Sweden and making major investments in energy, electronics and biotechnology. Last year, 38 billion was invested, last year 12 billion. Large investments are at risk of ending up in other countries, but they have a strategically serious effect on Sweden. I very much hope that the Prime Minister will come back with a proposal on how we can screen and scan security-politically important companies in Sweden.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-369	Mr President, I would like to I've already answered the last part. Yes, we see this. A balance is needed. At the same time, we think that foreign direct investment is sometimes actually good and provides resources, skills and productivity. It's not all bad. But, of course, we must not be naive. There are absolutely strategic interests here that we should be looking after. We're going to move on with that process. As far as properties are concerned, society has allocated resources. Then I think we should help each other and push the property owners to do their part. We must all help each other here. I think a lot of real estate owners want that. Why should they want to be without tenants? If it were to capsize, it wouldn't be a success for them either. Now we are talking about hotels, restaurants and shops. But we do not know how long this will last and what other sectors will suffer in time. How long will it take for industry to suffer even more widely? We must also have resources for the next step.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-373	Mr President, I would like to I note that most citizens seem to have taken the Prime Minister's words about showing public opinion seriously. We can now see that it is full of cancellations for the Gotland ferry, flights from Stockholm and other things. But the message does not seem to go fully home with all citizens. I spoke on the phone with a citizen living in southern Stockholm, Fruängen, a little while ago. He told us that he and his friends now plan to travel to Dalarna over Easter weekend. In view of this, I must ask the Prime Minister: do you have any specific message for those who so far do not seem to have understood the message they should have understood?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-376	Mr President, I would like to I think Dag Larsson himself gave the answer. I have said on a number of occasions that most people understand that this is real and really serious. What we do here and now will determine how many sick and severely ill we get or how many deceased we get, and whether the health care system will be able to cope with it or not. That's why we're going to flatten the curve. Then we must all help each other and ask ourselves, Is this journey necessary, or is it not necessary? Am I risking this trip to contribute to the spread of infection? Am I at risk of making medical care more difficult? Don't leave! Think again! We now have this time. If we help each other like a country, as we usually do, we will also get through this. If it's the sacrifice of not making this trip, then don't make that trip. We are showing solidarity now.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-381	Mr President, I would like to The EU is founded on respect for human dignity. Solidarity is one of the basic values of the European Union. We must now work to ensure that care is provided with the necessary resources. The EU is now working on procurements of ventilators, tests and personal protective equipment, and Sweden is participating. We hope that the material will come here as soon as possible. The situation in the refugee camps must be alleviated. There is a need for hygiene and clean water. The Swedish Government, Peter Eriksson, is working on this in the field of aid and with contacts with colleagues in the EU. The urgent thing now is to fight the Corona. At the same time, we need to think about long-term reconstruction. Europe needs to be socially and ecologically sustainable and resilient to crises. This applies to pandemics as well as to the climate crisis. Prime Minister: The Czech Republic and Poland have made moves to abolish the EU's climate target and Green Deal. Sweden does not want that. How does the Prime Minister view this development?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-385	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it was not surprising that Poland and the Czech Republic have made the move. They have been sceptical about the EU's climate policy all along. I myself sit in the European Council and hear what is being said. I mean, they're just as wrong now as they were then. It is not the case that the control of the corona virus and covid-19 change the basic strategy of our climate work. It used to be important. It's just as important now. It'll be just as important after. It's about the transition. There, too, it is mentally the future of growth. It is the green that is the growth of the future. That's where we have new technology and new jobs. That is why we have future welfare there. It is quite clear to me that we should not cut back on those ambitions. Ursula von der Leyen is also very clear about that. There are also other representatives who speak with me in favour of simply continuing with the Green Deal.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-389	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to welcome the 15 billion that are now coming to regions and municipalities. This will be necessary, partly because of reduced tax revenues in a deep economic crisis and also because of Corona. I think it will be even more necessary for the regions in the future, because there are many additional costs. My question is really about staff. We have raised a question in the Moderates. Of course, those who now work in the front line both in elderly care and in healthcare with corona patients need protective equipment. But we think they would also need an addition. It's a salary supplement. We have said 5,000 kroner. We can discuss that with the government. They may also be paid when they are at home and sick. They can get full pay at that time. This staff is working hard. They need more than our cheers and warm hearts. They would need encouragement.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-393	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we are broadly agreed to add general additions. We have said to regions and municipalities: the additional costs that you will have depending on this will be borne by the state. You never have to think about the lack of financial resources. We have enough bottlenecks in terms of staff, but also in terms of equipment. It must not fall on the economic side. You do what you need to do. I have spoken to a number of municipal representatives and regional representatives of different political colours. They are now busy trying to solve this task. When it comes to whether to go in and make wage changes, I think you should think about it. The question is, who shouldn't have? Who doesn't belong to this group? I think you should be very careful about that. We will ensure that you have the best resources available in municipalities and regions.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-396	Mr President, Prime Minister. For a long time, the Swedish Democrats have been advocating that we should have a general, government and fully tax-funded treasury. It is a pity that in this situation we do not have it in place. The changes in working conditions proposed by the government are good and reasonable. However, the proposal to reduce membership to three months at this point seems a little strange. I see the government's new proposal as having to be a member of the unemployment fund for three months in order to be able to get more than the basis for it to continue. At this stage of mass unemployment, is it not better to abolish membership conditions and make membership and working conditions completely retroactive for all workers?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-399	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, a review of the unemployment fund is under way to make it more accessible. You look at both the membership conditions and the working conditions so that there will still be some entry ticket to get the unemployment insurance. It's from what these rules are designed. You make it a lot easier. It will meet a lot of people. The rules have been developed in cooperation with the a-cassors and their co-organisation. But since before, you know what's good. I believe that the change that has been made is good and will meet many. This means that many do not have to go into poverty. These are the rules that we will have for these subsidies.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-402	Mr President, Prime Minister. The Corona crisis is giving birth to a new kind of criminal activity with high demand for, among other things, protective equipment. Various forms of curfews and restrictions in EU Member States have allowed criminal networks to act more undisturbed while increasing public concern. The will of criminal networks to make society more uncertain and vulnerable is great right now. According to Europol, the number of cyber attacks has increased. Cyber attacks are taking place against hospital IT systems. The number of frauds is increasing where the pandemic is exploited by criminal gangs. This applies to everything from speculation with shares to the procurement of alcohol and medical equipment that takes place without the goods being delivered. It is not right to exploit a society and its inhabitants who are in crisis. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the readiness of the police and Säpo to stop crime taking place in Coronatids.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-405	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I fully share the analysis. Unfortunately, there are people who do not shy away from anything but use you in this situation for fraud or whatever it may be. Then society must stand firm and show that it is totally unacceptable. I am pleased that we have managed to provide both the police, the security police and other authorities with more resources to deal with fraud, violent crime and cybercrime. We need both human and financial resources to do so. All authorities must make their contingency plans. Even the police are going through: How are we now going to work in the best possible way in this particular situation? You may need to be helpful in health care. There may be other things you need to do differently. All authorities, including the police, the Prison Service and others in the justice chain, make their own analysis and plan to handle the situation as well as possible.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-410	Mr President, I would like to The economic crisis is deepening rapidly. The single most important measure to save businesses and avoid huge unemployment is now to significantly strengthen lay-off aid. The government's proposal is not enough. Lay-off must be possible up to 90% of the time. There's a danger in waiting. However, there are also problems with the rules themselves in order to receive lay-off aid. They are now leading to increased unemployment. Contrary to advice from its own expert authority, the Government has introduced a requirement for companies to lay off temporary staff in order to benefit from the lay-off allowance for permanent employees. Many have already been made redundant because of this requirement. But the January parties do not want to change the rule. Does the Prime Minister really believe, in this deep recession, that already vulnerable groups in the labour market, because of the state's demands, should be forced into unemployment in order for companies to receive the necessary support in the crisis? If he does not think so, when will the government change this unreasonable rule?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-413	Mr President, I would like to I was Federal President 2008/ 2009 when we had a crisis. There was no such thing at all at that time. In my opinion, tens of thousands of people went into unemployment for nothing. Now it's here. Now agreements covering almost 2 million employees are signed. It is clear that this short-term lay-off will give people opportunities to keep their jobs. The regulation itself, as decided, was also what was prepared and clear. Many, including the business community, have expressed that they would rather have something fast and perhaps not perfect than to wait long, until everything has gone wrong. Now this is in place. I have also said in previous answers here that we are prepared to review the regulations if anything that is being introduced becomes wrong or cannot be used. In this case, too, I cannot answer precisely this question. But we are prepared to review what is not working.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister. And thank you to all those who make important contributions to our country in this difficult time! In connection with the outbreak of the Corona crisis, we were initially able to see individual EU countries imposing export bans on medical equipment. We heard that face protection ordered by Italy was held back by the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, face masks that Sweden had ordered in Germany also got stuck. Sweden and the Minister for Trade have acted quickly and clearly and have told the Commission and other Member States that all export restrictions must be removed. This jeopardises both the fight against corona and the whole European idea. Instead, the EU should facilitate the import of important goods, for example by abolishing EU customs duties on medical equipment. I therefore wonder whether the Prime Minister at the informal EU summit this week managed to gain an understanding of the Swedish position that the export ban on medical articles is harmful to all of us.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-421	Mr President, I would like to I and many others have just raised the problem that now that we may need the market most, it risks being destroyed when some countries introduce export bans. As Mathias Tegnér points out, Sweden has been affected. Things that we had paid for were stopped. We managed to get a boat out of Germany anyway. Unfortunately, France, Italy, Slovakia, Romania, Spain, the Czech Republic and Poland still have export restrictions. It was raised at the video meeting last Thursday, and it is included in the conclusions from there. I have also mentioned it in a number of bilateral talks, with the President of the Commission, with the President of the European Council and with colleagues. I have probably had five six talks that we should help each other here and now, but also that we need to get to the regulatory framework so that we coordinate in a much better way and use the European market as it is intended.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-424	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report, I was going to say. It is last week's meeting that I would like to ask you a question about. In parallel with the most important issue at the moment, to combat the spread of the Corona virus, there is a debate in the EU on how European cooperation should best be used to kick-start the economy and employment once the ravages of the virus have subsided. The statement speaks of a comprehensive recovery plan. I believe that there is a risk with the recovery plan that the European Union intends to develop. There is too much focus on redistributing resources within the EU. I am afraid that countries such as Sweden, which have saved a lot of money in the barns, will have to redistribute to countries that may have lived beyond their resources. The EU's strength is precisely trade and the common market. It is important to ensure that there are no barriers to trade and that the internal market is set in motion. How does the Prime Minister intend to work in the EU to stimulate the European and Swedish economies?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-428	Mr President, I would like to It is an important subject that is being addressed. The day we can start pushing to get the economy back on its feet as quickly as possible, we need ourselves, as a country, to think about what we are doing internally. But it is equally important to think about what we are doing together in Europe. It is about coordinating our actions in a much better way than at the start of the crisis so that we make sure that the internal market works and that we really take advantage of that power and get the right to trade. However, there is a balance that needs to be considered. If significant countries in the EU fail to cope with the situation, it will of course affect the whole of EU cooperation. Then Sweden is also very vulnerable; 70% of our exports go to Europe. So you have to be careful when taking action. But we will have to take coordinated measures, including economic ones.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-432	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister, who, despite the circumstances, takes the time to be there and answer our questions. My question also concerns the coronavirus and its consequences. Sweden's strategy to stop the spread of covid-19 infection differs, both in the Nordic countries and in Europe, as our restrictions compared to other countries are very cautious. In Denmark, for example, the government went out early on with severe restrictions. You can now see the effect of that. Their curve is being flattened. Instead, in Sweden we see a very worrying rise in the number of infected people. Everything suggests that the situation may get worse very quickly if we do not act.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-436	Mr President, I would like to The situation, for everyone, will get worse before things get better. We need to be clear about that. And it won't take weeks. It'll take months. And it will do that for the whole of Europe. The comparison with Denmark is slightly limping. In terms of the population, we have the same situation, even though we have taken some different measures. Sweden does not differ by doing completely different things from others. We have also limited schooling, for example. But we chose to do so for universities, colleges and high schools, because students there have the possibility of distance learning in a different way than they have at lower ages. As far as schools are concerned, many have also said: Don't close the schools! That's what business says, that's what healthcare says, and that's what other people say. I spoke yesterday with a regional representative who said: Don't close the schools. Then we won't be able to handle the medical system. We're doing what's best to limit the infection.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-442	Mr President, I would like to The corona epidemic that is now raging presents Sweden with enormous challenges. I believe there is an understanding that our preparedness is not as good as it should be. In the autumn, the Riksdag will take a new total defence decision. The basis for this is that the stronger the civil defence we have, the better the emergency preparedness will also be. If our society is able to cope with the demands that war can impose on us, we are also better equipped to deal with crises. The Swedish parliament has now announced to the government that work on civil defence must be prioritised and accelerated. A number of government representatives have expressed concern about the slow pace of civil defence work. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what steps he will take to speed up the work on civil defence in the light of the experience we can now draw from the coronap pandemic.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-446	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that there is also a broad consensus in the Defence Committee on the need to strengthen our preparedness, civil defence and therefore total defence. There's a deal. That is why we have begun the work and added more resources to the civil defence. The defence committee has made it clear that there will be more resources. There, too, skills need to be built up, and that work has begun. Of course, we should also draw conclusions from this crisis. What do we learn from the one we need to take with us in our work? It is quite natural, and of course we will.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-449	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish Parliament has discussed changes to the rules regarding, among other things, sickness pay liability and the removal of the requirement for a medical certificate. They are necessary and important changes. However, the proposals do not apply to those vulnerable groups who, as a result of, for example, cancer treatment, have a compromised immune system, which may first have overcome a severe cancer disease but who, due to the tough treatments, have a very weak immune system, or people suffering from, for example, a lung disease. The temporary extension of the allowance to these groups and to parents with children at risk would mean that they can stay at home and avoid the concern about what the infection can mean for them and feel financial security. It is also groups that, if they become infected, would be extremely caring, because their defence of resistance to infection is so reduced. Today, therefore, we Moderates have tabled a committee initiative with this content on the table of Parliament. I would appeal to the Prime Minister to take urgent initiatives to help these vulnerable people who now need the support of society, and I wonder what the government intends to do.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-453	Mr President, I would like to I'm being asked here and now, and I don't know the details. Of course, I do not know all the treatment that takes place in the committees either. Initiatives taken in committees will be discussed in committees. The government can have a clear focus on where you want to go on this issue. We have always said that things introduced in the wake of the Corona crisis may need to change. I cannot say here and now that exactly this or that change will happen, but we have always said that we are open to making improvements. It's supposed to work, and people are supposed to feel as safe as they can in a difficult time. Let's get back to the details.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-456	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday the Swedish Public Health Agency came back with new guidelines on how we can jointly counteract the spread of covid-19. One of these advice was that the number of passengers on public transport must be limited. This has been on the agenda for a long time as there have been frequent reports of overcrowded public transport in the country's major cities. Those who cannot work from home but have to go to the hospital or nursing home to work today risk being infected on the way to or from work. One of the solutions to reduce congestion and the risk it poses is to encourage motorism. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether the government will work to remove the congestion tax and make it easier for motorists rather than making money from those who, through their driving, contribute to reducing the spread of infection.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-459	Mr President, I would like to We believe that it is important that public transport works in this situation, so there are no proposals to remove any congestion tax. It should be natural that if people need to go by public transport, they should not have to go too crowded. Nevertheless, there is a basic clear advice in everything from washing your hands frequently and carefully and not visiting older people to not socializing too closely. Then we must set up society after that at this time, and that means that we must make sure that we extend the possibilities of public transport so that we do not have to sit tight in a bus or in any other means of transport. It's a way forward. I'd like people to go collectively, but not too close.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-461	Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis beats hard at business and jobs. The Moderates are presenting emergency packages, and the government has done the same. Many entrepreneurs are literally fighting for the survival of their businesses. Proposals and decisions taken relate to lay-offs, tax suspensions and initiatives to abolish employers' contributions. There are many questions from the country's entrepreneurs about percentages, dates, whether or not their industry is affected. One can see that simple and fast handling can make businesses survive. Conversely, unnecessary bureaucracy and lack of information can mean that companies are de facto destroyed. What does the Prime Minister do specifically for companies to get information about the crisis support available and for the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency to get a quick handling so that the lack of information or government bureaucracy does not cause companies to fail unnecessarily in this important situation?
i-d29814b0fb157b52-464	Mr President, I would like to First of all, there should be as little bureaucracy as possible, but getting completely away from bureaucracy and administration will not happen. Something's got to be. We have a very good dialogue with professional organisations and employers' organisations, which support their member companies. They reach a lot of people. I believe that all those who are in these organisations will receive a great deal of help. The authorities involved, the Swedish Tax Agency or the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, have an obligation to ensure that the information is available. I also know that they are changing staff to deal with these issues as quickly as possible. Some kind of contact with the authorities will in most cases be needed. We have added resources to the authorities so that they can manage an increased flow.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-469	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister about international cooperation. Now that there is a coronapandemia that is flourishing all over the globe, international cooperation is more important than ever. It is important to learn from those who have succeeded, that is, those who appear to have done something that has dampened the progression of the coronavirus. Here I am thinking specifically of the WHO. There is one country that is not allowed to join the WHO, which must not sit at the table and discuss, which is not given the opportunity, like other countries, to ask questions. It is a country with 23 million inhabitants but few cases of Corona infected – thank God. I am thinking here of Taiwan. I wonder if the Prime Minister is prepared to actively work towards Taiwan becoming a full member of the WHO.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-472	Mr President, I would like to One direct answer is that I would like to take that question through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I cannot say yes or no to such questions here and now. It may be that we're running that question already-- I don't know. I'm afraid I can't answer. However, I fully agree with Margareta Cederfelt that international cooperation is incredibly important. That is why we are in contact with our Nordic neighbours and with our European friends. I spoke with UN Secretary-General Guterres the other day, and I will talk with OECD Secretary-General Gurría later today as well as with the President of South Korea and the Prime Minister of Canada. We have that network of contacts to ensure that international cooperation also works. We have the most important cooperation with the European Union, but it is also important that we seek contact with those who are like-minded and that we continue to pursue our issues. I will come back to the very question of the WHO.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-476	Mr President, I would like to In a couple of days, Norrland will be without operational flight connections. Norwegian has put the aircraft down and left that part of the country. Yesterday the BRA announced that they are doing the same, and SAS called around and informed regional councils and others that they will do exactly the same. What the aviation industry wanted is simply to be told by the government if one can imagine some form of increased public service obligations in this serious situation. The alternative is that in a few days Sweden will be left without domestic flights. Then engineers, health professionals, medicines or technical equipment will not come to Norrland or Gotland with fast transportation. We Moderates made the decision yesterday that we are prepared to make such a procurement, that is to say to extend the public service obligations and to ensure that we have operational air connections outside the few locations that are currently being procured. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he and the government can do the same, because it is urgent. Norrland stands shortly without functioning fast connections.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-480	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl is absolutely right, and we are doing exactly that. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is working on how we ensure that we have flights where we actually have to have flights. We cannot suddenly stand on the sidelines that depend on it. That is why the work is under way. Exactly when and how do we get back to, but we can't leave senders in the lurch and say, unfortunately, you got out of it. It's important to us. We are working on it, and we must try to find the best solution possible as quickly as possible.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-482	Mr President, I would like to Varsels are now rising sharply. The Ministry of Finance's latest forecast, as we heard yesterday, is that unemployment this year will reach at least 9%. The number of bankruptcies is also increasing sharply. The government and the opposition are working to get measures in place, not least through decisions here in Parliament almost daily. These are measures to counteract bankruptcies and ensure that we support the Swedish economy and the Swedish business community at this time. At the same time, we are faced with worrying signals from some business representatives that some efforts are at risk of becoming too complicated and that it is too difficult as an entrepreneur to understand what measures are now in place and how to take part in these efforts as an entrepreneur. We also hear that the interest rate of 6.6% in the Government's proposal is perceived to be too high to afford to take part in the efforts. I would therefore like to ask whether the Prime Minister shares the concern that these measures risk becoming too complicated for entrepreneurs to benefit from them.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-486	Mr President, I would like to I think that the overall picture is that many will be really helped by the efforts that have been made – short-term lay-off, sickness pay, employers' contributions, what we are doing in the tax area with deferred VAT and so on. As far as the interest on the tax is concerned, it is still under discussion. We will come back with a new proposal, because there were also such views in the Riksdag. Of course, we think that we should take on board such proposals. So I want to say that the overall picture is that this is good at this moment, but there is nothing that can't get any better. If there is something we can simplify and clarify, we should do so. However, it will not be that there is no administration or that there is nothing you have to seek or whatever you do now. But then we have many good professional organisations and employers' organisations that are there and support their companies.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-490	Mr President, I would like to I promised Mikael Dahlqvist that we would have a little change of line here, so I am fulfilling my promise now. As several colleagues, including Mikael Dahlqvist, have highlighted here today, it is now, in fact, quite a long time since the medical investigation report came. My question to Mikael Dahlqvist is therefore how the government intends to deal with this further and when we can look forward to the government making a proposal. Is there any proposal from this investigation, and what can we look forward to coming? I also take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 6, which I forgot to do in my speech.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-494	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for your question! As you pointed out, it is just over a year since the report was presented. Since then, the matter has been out for a referral, and it is no secret that the referees sprung quite a lot. This, with the funding of medicines, who should be responsible for the party, so to speak, is a sensitive issue. But the question is being prepared in the Government Office, and one tries to find a common denominator for a solution. What I would like to point out to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, Mr President, is that a number of years ago it was decided that it is the regions that bear the cost of medicines. Then it has traditionally been the case that the state went in with targeted money. This must now be sorted out. Whether it is the state or the regions that have to bear the cost, you have to find out who is doing what. If the regions are responsible for health care, medicines are included in it. But let us return to this when you are prepared to proceed with a bill.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-499	Mr President, I would like to The regions certainly have a responsibility. What we are seeing today is that not least the small regions are having a rather tough time dealing with the huge costs of the new, powerful medicines in particular. We know that the new cell and gene therapies can mean several million in cost for the same patient. What lies in the second balance is that after about five years of use they have amazing results. For us Moderates, it is unacceptable that it should matter where in the country you live in order to be able to take part in these amazing treatments. That is why I would like to ask Mikael Dahlqvist if he sees a need for greater national responsibility in order for us to be able to provide much more equal healthcare and medical treatment to our citizens.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-502	Mr President, I would like to Yes, is the answer to that question. We are already seeing an increasing inequality between the regions, not only in the treatment of medicines, but also in the treatment of healthcare. We Social Democrats are clear that welfare should be a priority and that the need should guide the effort that is being made. It does not matter whether you live in Kiruna or in Ystad; the same applies. The study mentions that some money should be directed at specific costs that some regions have, for example, because rare diagnoses are over-represented and also for new drugs. Ensuring these costs so that everyone has access to the available medical treatment is self-evident. But what I think it is important for both the government and we in this House to think a lot about is who is responsible for costs. I do not think that we can have it so that it is the region on the one hand, and the state on the other. We see a clear picture of crisis preparedness management in the regions. Let us come back to this. I share your view, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-507	Mr President, I would like to Our country is in a crisis, in a war against an invisible enemy – a virus that no one has immunity against and that has spread over our world and reaps lives in soon all its countries. Mr President, I would like to A few months ago we worked frantically, but still in peace, looking at where we need to sharpen our preparedness. We need to ensure that medicines are available and not left-over and that medical devices are available when they are needed. We noted shortcomings. Today we are in the midst of acute crisis management, with health care and people's health at the centre, of life and death. Mr President, I would like to I feel safe with the Swedish system. We have competent, independent authorities and a healthcare system that stands out in international competition. We have clear decision-making structures, a high level of trust in experts in our country and a cohesion in a country where everyone is helping, together, not least now that there is a crisis. Public Health Agency, National Board of Health, MSB, Swedish Armed Forces, Health Care – everyone is doing a fantastic job in this difficult time. We are being tested, and it becomes clear that something very important was forgotten in the liberalisation of pharmacies in 2009 and later, namely that we need to be prepared. We must have a pharmaceutical policy, even if we have a liberalised market. The same applies to medical devices. We must not end up in situations where people have to be sorted out because there are no responsors, so that is enough and where those who work in the healthcare sector do not have the equipment they need. It is also clear that national coordination structures are required, including for procurement internationally. Today, the National Board of Health and Welfare is doing a fantastic job with this. Furthermore, it becomes clear that Swedish industry plays a very important role, also in crises. It's about the ability to reset. We have seen that it has moved from producing Absolute vodka – although it is still produced – to also producing hand spirit, which is needed not least in a heavily burdened medical care. Clearly, we need stocks and, to some extent, need to be able to support ourselves nationally, while at the same time working hard for free trade in the world. Mr President, I would like to The letter Resistance addresses all these aspects, and today Åsa Kullgren presents a partial report in the investigation into healthcare in civil defence that goes deeper into what concerns our healthcare. This provides a good basis for the work ahead. Mr President, I would like to I feel confident that the challenges we face today with regard to the supply of medicinal products in healthcare and medical devices will be well addressed, not least in the negotiations on the future of total defence. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I support the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-518	Mr President, I would like to Last year, when we debated the motion report on mental health, we had just agreed on two announcements. The first announcement was based on the Alliance Movement for Strengthening the Supervision and Follow-up of Child and Youth Psychology. The second was co-morbidity, i.e. when a person suffers from both mental illness and an addiction disease. The government was tasked with reviewing how the care of a person with co-morbidity can be gathered with a principal. I wonder what happened to these announcements during the year. I hope that any representative from the two government parties or its supporting parties will comment on this. Mr President, I would like to So for what we're going to discuss today. It's a strange time-- we're all saying that. Covid-19 overshadows everything right now. It's not all night black. We see a policy of unity, a society that unites and individual efforts that make the heart warm. But we also see an economy that has quickly slowed down, a health care system that is very heavily burdened, companies that go bankrupt and people who are being laid off. It can be assumed that what we are talking about here today, namely mental illness, will increase. Many are concerned about their health, their job, or the health of their loved ones. Mental illness can also increase as a result of social isolation and the loss of loved ones that we will experience. What we are now doing to prevent the mental illness that will arise as a result of the Corona virus will have a major impact in the future. Mr President, I would like to Suicide Zero warned a few days ago of the risk that organizations with great knowledge see that suicides will also increase. This assumption is well founded. A study of researchers at Oxford University in 2011 referred to suicide statistics from Europe and North America in the years following the 2008 financial crisis. Researchers could link at least 10,000 suicides to the financial crisis. We must take this very seriously. This is where the government needs to act and equip health care for what comes after the virus itself. There is also a study from China and the Wuhan area, which includes 1 200 health workers. A significant majority of the healthcare professional who was directly involved in the work with covid-19 suffered from anxiety, depression and insomnia. Mr President, I would like to So to the moderate proposals. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2. The Moderates want to increase cooperation between psychiatry and other parts of the healthcare system. Patients in psychiatry feel that they are less involved and less informed than patients in other somatic care. This must change. The Moderates want to test the possibilities of developing a cooperation agreement between the relevant actors in psychiatry and other care in order to ensure that the right care, of high quality, is provided in time within psychiatry and somatic care. The Moderates also want a mandate to establish systematic cooperation between psychiatry and parts of the non-profit sector, such as sports associations and music and cultural activities. Not least covid-19 has shown how important the non-profit forces are. The idea-based sector certainly deserves to be lifted and appreciated. But it also needs long-term rules of play, and it needs to be able to plan its operations. Therefore, more systematic cooperation between psychiatry and the idea-based sector is needed. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again that we now need to find ways together, both in the short term and in the long term, to combat mental illness.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-528	Mr President, I would like to Mental ill health is addressed as the greatest public health challenge of our time. And now that we are in this difficult time with tough decisions to make – decisions that determine lives and people's future – it's important to have perspective. We have to ask ourselves the question: are there more groups at risk than those at risk of being seriously ill by the Corona virus? The answer to that question is yes. People with mental illness are an additional risk group. At first glance, it may be difficult to see the seriousness. But just as the realization that children and women who are forced to find themselves in abominable home environments are hard hit by the Corona crisis, there are more vulnerable and vulnerable people who will be adversely affected. The elderly are a group that is particularly affected by anxiety, depression and suicidal thoughts. Now that people over the age of 70 are being called upon to isolate themselves and thus avoid social contacts, their mental health is in danger of rapidly deteriorating. Also, not all elderly people have close relatives who can support and help in different ways. Not all the elderly have anyone to call at the height of loneliness. In our absolute focus on protecting our elderly, we must raise our eyes and ensure that we are also aware of what is needed to do so in the best possible way. We cannot isolate vulnerable groups without having an understanding of the consequences and suffering that can result if we do not do so properly. Mr President, I would like to The increased mental illness of the country's young people is no less relevant in these times. Suicide thoughts don't disappear just because the focus is elsewhere. Instead, the risk is that the number of suicides will increase in these difficult times. For example, young people lose their routines and do not long have the same opportunity to meet a school psychologist or a curator. It affects everyday life, and it affects mental health status. People suffering from mental illness are today referred to health centres and psychiatry while visits should not be allowed in case of cold symptoms. How should health care deal with an individual with both suicidal thoughts and cold symptoms? These are the kind of questions we need to start asking now, because we still do not see the end of the Corona crisis. The efforts made by the government to prevent the spread of infection and to protect our population are important and are to be carried out. At the same time, however, we must be aware that the government's intervention package lacks measures to cover the consequences of vulnerable groups. And despite the fact that non-profit organisations now see the importance of strengthening their activities – such as support hotlines for the elderly and people with suicidal thoughts – government efforts will be required. Mr President, I would like to Today we have a multi-level alert. Despite our high tax burden, we cannot deliver accessible and public support for people with suicidal thoughts. Now that we are in an emergency situation, we have to rely entirely on non-profit organisations. It's not sustainable. As most people know, the Helpline was closed at the turn of the year. It was a well-functioning hotline that had filled an extra important role today, and I think most people can agree with that. The Swedish democrats refused to accept the closure from the first moment and have highlighted the decision as extremely problematic. In this connection, we raised the matter for discussion in the Parliamentary Social Committee in the form of a committee initiative, in which we wanted to see a government mission that included the Government's urgent efforts to ensure that Sweden has a well-functioning, nationwide hotline activity. D first in order to meet the great need that exists and with that ensure that people suffering from mental disorders and suicidal thoughts have somewhere to turn, which we think should be an absolute obvious. Although so many representatives from a number of different parties have complained about the closure of the Help Line, no party supported the committee initiative. This should not be a party political issue. It should be about common sense. Fine words from a speaker's chair are nothing more than blows in the air if you are not prepared to take responsibility. Mr President, I would like to I can guarantee that the Swedish Democrats will continue to fight for people suffering from mental illness and suicidal thoughts to receive adequate help. We will never allow the question of the Helpline to be forgotten. Sweden shall have a national emergency telephone service for mental illness that is accessible and helps those in need of support and guidance further in the care chain. This is a strong priority for us and we will do everything we can to correct the serious mistake of closing the Help Line, which we believe has been done without thought. Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-545	Mr President, I would like to We now see h from many older people are more isolated and lonely than ever. They are separated from people who matter much from them. They are distinct from important habits and hobbies. At the same time, we see the same thing for the youngest. Young people with distance learning still end up at a greater distance from their favorite teacher or from a safe adult in a leisure activity. But what I want to talk about now is also important every normal day, when we don't have a virus that locks us up and keeps us apart. For mental illness and mental illness is something that is here all the time, even if it gets worse now. Mr President, I would like to Young people need us ordinary days and even more now. Policy action is needed for a good environment in schools, workplaces, pupil health, everyday care and specialised health care. It is important for us that this issue should be included in the agreement between us Liberals and the other January parties. At the same time, we see how our elderly are now carrying the most weighty burden. They carry the heaviest yoke of the pandemic that is now washing over us and that we do not know when it will disappear. The National Board of Health's report Mental illness in people over 65 years of age and older showed that mental illness is more common in people over 65 than in adults under 65, and this was before the Corona crisis occurred and before we asked them to close their door and not open. We also know that mental illness is more common in people who need support from the municipality – municipal elderly care or health care. We know that older men are heavily overrepresented in suicide statistics. At the same time, we are painfully aware that the knowledge about older people's mental ill health and illnesses and how to treat them is far too small. You hear me. There is only one thing we can do, as I and we Liberals judge it: we need to strengthen our knowledge of the mental health and care of the elderly, and we need to strengthen older psychiatrists. That is why I am in favour of our reservation 5 on strengthening care and knowledge of the mental health and illness of the elderly. So we know what we want to do, but how? How are we to work for good care throughout the country and for everyone, whoever we are, wherever we come from, whatever our age and background? Care for mental illness often needs to be close to us. But sometimes it is also very difficult and must be where the knowledge is at its strongest. In order to find the right balance and the right knowledge and to meet people where they need to meet, we liberals propose a national psychiatry strategy. We want regional psychiatric centres to be set up, with regional cancer centres as a model, and we want to have national coordination of this one governed by knowledge. We think that is the right way to go. In addition, we see that knowledge must be spread from man to man. We want increased user interaction. We believe that people with their own experience of mental illness and mental illness have a lot to teach employees and elected representatives in healthcare. We also believe that both patients and relatives in many places would like to have more education and more self-help groups. This must be secured all over our country. There is a need for a better structure and better help for those who need it. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the most important people are wise people right there and then. There is no organisation and no political proposal that can ever overcome a shortage of wise people. First of all, I am very, very grateful for the proposals that have been put forward and which we hope will soon be discussing extending the so-called quacksalveri law. It is not reasonable that after a few days of highly questionable quality training, anyone can call themselves a certified or authorized healer or therapist. It's not supposed to be like that. One should not be able to say that one can treat serious diseases if one cannot, and we, as sick and as relatives, must be able to trust that. We can't today, but I'm glad it's going to be so soon. I also want fragile, vulnerable people to know that when they come to health care, they are supported by knowledgeable and experienced people. These people should have the best possible protection and support from all of us, in crisis such as now but also in everyday life. We need to start lifting health care employees, because it cannot be the case that the first-line protection against the breakdown of life should be a challenge in everyday life. We should therefore have support for the fragile and better organisation but above all better conditions for people to meet – all those who ultimately make the whole difference. I believe that we are moving forward there, and on the day we stand there we have quite different possibilities of protecting those who really need us.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-561	Mr President, I would like to I am concerned about the pandemic, just as many other people do. It would be rather strange if we didn't. It is a new virus, and we are forced to learn how it works, while at the same time designing the best measures to reduce the spread of infection and cope with care. It is not only Sweden that is affected, but basically the whole world. Of course we're worried. Feeling anxious is natural. At the same time, I know that anxiety and anxiety can contribute to mental and physical ill health. It can also lead to severe illness. Mental health is not obvious. Good health can often be influenced but not always. Sometimes we suffer, despite everything we have done to avoid ill health and illness. I do what I can to follow the advice of the authorities during the pandemic. The social distance has been a negative expression for me, but I realise that it is now a necessity for us to reduce the risk of infection, cope with the elderly and cope with care. We will now have a time where we need to help each other and compensate for the physical distance we need to keep between us humans. We can do that by calling more often and using video meetings when possible. Being out is important now, as always. In the era of the pandemic, we walk by ourselves. But we take the chance, if it exists, to be out and enjoy spring as a sprite to right now. Yesterday when I took a longer walk I had time to see the small shoots that are coming up on every bush and tree. It's so amazing! It's gonna be ours. Mr President, I would like to I wish everyone could feel this joy right now-- that it's a spring coming after all and that something better comes. But that is not the case either now or otherwise. Many struggle with mental illness and some even with severe mental illness. It is essential that we have health care that provides care as needed and that helps us when health fails. For many people, different kinds of social interventions are also important. Civil society also contributes a great deal to strengthening relations. As a result of the pandemic, many compensatory measures are needed. There, municipalities and regions, but also civil society, have a great responsibility. For example, it is important that additional state aid is given to different types of helplines so that they can increase their activities and provide support to people who are concerned. Bris and Mind are examples of good, functioning activities that with extra support may be extended. The area of mental health contains many parts, and I will touch on only a few in this speech. For those who wish there is more to read in the Christian Democrats' motion. Mr President, I would like to In order to achieve better mental health, many sectors of society need to be involved. Health care and social services are self-evident. But just as important is the way school works, the contribution of culture, social planning, the design of social security, workplaces and much more. This was why, at the beginning of the year, five parliamentary committees met for a joint public hearing on the subject of mental health. The report in my hand, Public hearing on the theme of mental health in an Agenda 2030 perspective, is a small piece of paper that describes everything that was said and presented during that morning. There are many different sectors represented here that in different ways contribute to good mental health – or to the reverse, mental illness, if you do wrong. The fact that we five committees worked together that morning showed that mental health affects a large part of society, and we must all contribute to an improvement. A morning in Parliament does not in itself bring any improvement. But hopefully this means that there are many more of us who see that efforts are interrelated. There will be more of us who set mental health as an important goal for society as a whole. It is essential that it is included now that we are working together to cope with the consequences of the pandemic. I am pleased with a broad political commitment and discussions in good spirit about various types of action rather than political games that rarely serve any purpose. The efforts we are now making from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Employment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Education, and so on are linked to mental health. Losing the job, being forced into isolation for a long time, or having to wait for the surgery you need, but who can resist when the pandemic is here, are things that now affect people. In part, we can compensate for this by means of political measures, so support of various kinds is really necessary. Of course, we also need to use the time we have to call loved ones that we are not allowed to meet for a while. The public's efforts, together with everything we do voluntarily, are linked. Do not hesitate to seek help if you feel anxious or anxious! I am glad that what is called the first line's help is developing around the country. We have a lot left, but we're taking steps forward. When you suffer from severe illness, you should feel confident that the care is there and can meet all the needs you have: care to feel better, possibility of rehabilitation when needed, and support for a long period of time when the disease resolves. It should be person-centred care based on your needs. There, too, we have a bit to go, but I am delighted by the steps we are taking forward. I hope that we can now take more steps forward through wise parliamentary decisions. The same applies to work carried out by municipalities and regions. We all need mental health as an important goal.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-580	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs' report 10 on mental health to be approved. Mr President, I would like to At a time like this, many people feel a great worry that they will become infected or that their relatives will be infected by covid-19. Although much is being done to prevent the infection, there is great concern that life is not as it usually is. Plans and travel may be cancelled. Not being able to hang out with loved ones and not having that long-awaited hug can feel pretty tough. Many people wonder about the job, how it will be with the economy, what the salary will be in April and whether it will be enough for rent, food and bills. This is happening at a time when we know that many already have problems with their mental health, which is one of today's major social problems. Mr President, I would like to For us Social Democrats, the mental health of girls, boys, women and men is a priority area. Our Prime Minister already said in the Government Declaration of 10 September 2019 that mental illness is one of the major social problems of our time, that early intervention is important and that it will be easier to get help. In this year's budget, SEK 2.2 billion was allocated for interventions aimed at preventing mental illness and promoting mental health. Children and young people are a special priority group. Mental ill-health is also an important point in the January agreement, which the government has agreed with the Center Party and Liberals, where our four parties agree that psychiatry and pupil health will be strengthened and a new form of care will be investigated where patients will be quickly helped in lighter mental ill health. A goal for a queue-free child- and youth-psychiatry is also to be established. The state and Sweden's municipalities and Regions are to conclude an agreement on greater government responsibility with increasing resources to strengthen student health, preventive work and to combat bullying. It is the lighter mental illness that is increasing, not the mental illness. Mental ill health is present at all ages. The causes can be depression, work in a poor working environment, bullying or mental illness. The causes can be very many and sometimes difficult to understand. What is particularly worrying is that more and more children and young people are experiencing and having a worse mental health. Mr President, I would like to In 2018, 1,268 people killed themselves. 886 were men and 382 were women. Of these, 9 were children under the age of 15. This is so hard to understand, both for us and for the nearest ones. It's a very big tragedy. In another 306 cases there was a suspicion that it could be suicidal, but it is not confirmed. These are figures that we rarely talk about and few know about. I'm gonna make some comparisons that more people know about. The same year, 2018, which was an extra dark year when it came to fatalities in traffic, 324 persons died there. In 2019, 223 people were killed in traffic. This is also tragic. It is not as easy to talk about mental illness as it is to talk about another disease you have or if a loved one dies in an accident. In fact, I believe that we can all contribute in some way. It is about daring to ask or to dare to tell, to take the time and dare to listen. There is also a great deal to be done with respect and humanity. It is not uncommon for guilt, shame, and fear not to seek help but to try to self - medication with alcohol, drugs or tablets traded online, which does not usually help. Those suffering from mental illness should be helped quickly, need to be treated with the right medicine and get the right treatment from the right and competent staff. It is important that we learn more. Therefore, I think it is good that the Swedish Public Health Agency has been tasked with carrying out knowledge-raising efforts in mental health and suicide prevention and reducing the ignorance of ill health and suicide. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with identifying and analysing the area of mental health. In February 2020, the state's preparation for medical and social evaluation was tasked with evaluating efforts to promote mental health and prevent mental illness and suicide among children and young people. They will also identify knowledge gaps and highlight areas where we need more research and point to needs that promote children's and young people's mental health. Mr President, I would like to Much is going on, and much is being done. But what is very important is that at a lower age people pick up mental illness through preventive measures and good pupil health and get rid of queues for children's and young people's clinics. It is also about protecting the staff and making the work more attractive and raising the status of working in psychiatry. Cooperation between the different actors must be improved in order for people to have the opportunity for good and rapid care. Mr President, I would like to In these coronatides, which we have never experienced before and which will go to our history, no one knows how our own health will be affected or whether our loved ones will be affected. But we can assume that this will affect public health in one way or another. I am very concerned that mental illness in the virus's tracks will be even more a societal challenge that we must continue to prioritise for a longer period of time. What is so important right now and for some time to come is that we do that little extra, that we help each other and support each other, but that we also show that we are a society that stays together and makes decisions so that we can handle this as well as possible.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-599	Madam President, I would like Half of the inhabitants of Sweden are estimated to suffer mental illness in some form sometime during their lifetime. We can say that mental illness is the major health challenge of our time. Mental illness is increasing especially among young people and women. The causes are complex and stem from a variety of factors. The split society, where certain groups are in unemployment and exclusion, plays a major role. For young people, shortcomings in Swedish schooling, bullying, poor self-esteem and problems within the family are often important causes. Women's mental ill-health is thought to be linked to the effects of today's family-building patterns. While women perform, on average, five hours more unpaid work in one week compared to men, many mothers work full-time. The number of sick leave that occurs as a result of psychiatric diagnoses continues to increase. It is easier mental conditions, such as stress symptoms, which account for the greatest increase. Women are over-represented in this group. Along with depression, stress-related symptoms account for about 90 percent of all sick leave as a result of psychiatric diagnosis. The period of sick leave is also longer for psychiatric diagnoses than for other conditions. Overall, this means that mental illness accounts for the largest proportion of ongoing illness cases. The availability of therapy and call support is currently too low, and waiting times for qualified help are often long. A basic problem is the current lack of competence in psychiatry. However, people with lighter mental conditions are not always in need of meeting a specialist but can be helped through easier call support. In particular, this is true since the problems have not yet gone so far as to require sick leave. For many years we have been standing in this House and have observed in various debates, Question Time and interpellations that mental illness is increasing, and the figures are speaking clearly today. Despite major efforts by actors at all levels and hard work from the relevant staff groups, the need for care and support for those suffering from mental illness is not matched. We therefore see that it requires both long-term goals and the possibility of rapid and profound societal changes to put an end to the increase in mental illness. One group I would particularly like to highlight and dwell on is children and young people. Early detection of children and young people in need of support is a prerequisite for preventing mental illness and future exclusion. Often, these children can be detected at pre-school age or as early as when the mother-to-be visits the maternity care centre for controls. Between 0 and 18 years of age, almost all children and young people meet child health care, preschool and then comprehensive school and upper secondary school. Care for children and young people must therefore be found much more within the school walls and act as the first natural contact for young people in physical or mental problems. Student health plays an important role in all preventive health work. Today, the responsibility for children and young people's well-being is spread out in several different activities. This applies in particular to preschool, school, including pupil health, social services, maternity and child health care and youth clinics. The various activities that meet the child at different stages of life do their very best, but they do not cooperate with each other nearby as much as is necessary to reverse the trend of deteriorating mental health. Therefore, the Center Party wants the activities to work more jointly in a comprehensive child and youth health. And student health, as well as primary care, needs to be expanded. If health care aimed at children and young people can be expanded, it will become more accessible, which in turn will enable them to catch up with young people who feel bad before easier mental disorders can develop into more serious conditions. In order to create a comprehensive children's and young people's health, all forms of obstacles to the exchange of information, which today stop activities aimed at children, need to be dismantled. This way of removing watertight bulkheads between those who work with young people's health is used, among other things, in Scotland with very good results. The actions are based on the child instead of the bureaucracy. Decisions go faster, and information reaches right and on time. In order to make this possible fully in Sweden, confidentiality legislation must be amended in order to allow for the exchange of information about a child between health care, pupil health and social services. The Center Party has put forward proposals aimed at valuing student health by expanding it with more skills. We want to clarify in the School Act that the Vice-Chancellors are responsible for and coordinate student health in schools and that pupil health should be included as a subject in the Vice-Chancellor's programme. We also want education on the subject of life sciences to be introduced within the framework of sport and health. If we are serious about the ambition to close the health gaps within a generation, mental health is an area that requires a massive and long-term joint responsibility to create the conditions for municipalities and regions to do their job in the best possible way.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-612	Madam President, I would like Of course, the pandemic we are experiencing now will also create a pandemic of mental illness in Sweden – I am absolutely convinced of that. We must therefore ensure that the whole area of mental health is strengthened, from help lines to psychiatry and so on. That goes without saying. I even think a lot of people in this room are feeling anxious about this. How, then, do people who suffer from mental illness in their normal lives not feel? Madam President, I would like If Jack Nicholson's figure Nicholson in the film Gökboet ended up in our time, he would probably have been very surprised. The authoritarian mental hospitals are gone, but mental ill-health is greatly increasing in under pressure children and adults in our rather unequal society. When children cut themselves in the arms of performance anxiety before the tests or feel worthless in comparisons on social media, it is not society's conditions that are primarily criticized. The desire to understand the causal relationship rarely extends beyond the child or family. Madam President, I would like Mental illness in children aged 10 to 17 years has increased by over 100 percent in ten years. For young adults aged 18 to 24, the increase is nearly 70 per cent. Then remember that it is a whole scale when talking about mental illness. It is not only about psychosis but also very much about different types of anxiety and depression that can be addressed with the right treatment. The increase is also difficult to understand when letter diagnoses and self-harm behaviours are kept anxiously separate from overcrowding and child poverty despite numerous reports that can be read from top to bottom from Bris, the National Board of Health and the Public Health Authority that mental illness does not strike blindly, Madam President, but is strongly related to economic and social vulnerability. Problems such as anxiety, anxiety and insomnia are almost twice as common in the low-skilled. Women feel psychologically worse than men, even worse if they have an overseas background and work with low wages and precarious conditions. The worse the economy the family is said to have, the more common is self-reported mental illness in teenagers. And the fourth of all students with the lowest grades in grade 9 in comprehensive school are six times more likely to attempt suicide than the fourth with the highest grades. School plays an enormous role in the mental health of young people; it is extremely important. Madam President, I would like We need to invest even more resources directly in both child and adolescent psychiatry and adult psychiatry. We can see that across the country there is a shortage of psychologists, specialist nurses and psychiatrists. The staff is the key to a robust child and youth psychiatry, and it is time to hire more people in psychiatry with good wages and good working conditions. This should, of course, apply to the entire health care system. Then we would also like to look at how we can have a coherent child, pupil and youth health care system that leads to more equal access to health promotion activities throughout childhood, regardless of place of residence, choice of school or health care provider. Children of parents with mental illness or substance abuse problems must be guaranteed self-help. Those children have a very high risk of feeling mentally ill themselves. The National Board of Health and Welfare should be tasked with reviewing the conditions for increased monitoring of newly ill young adults nationally. We also need to make much greater efforts to find risk groups for mental illness at an early stage. Being able to help early is crucial for how a child should progress, how trust in his own ability to learn and develop is strengthened and how trust can grow when children see that the environment actually cares – that we share a context. Then I would like to highlight what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall highlighted about the two committee initiatives that we have developed on co-morbidity and the whole of psychiatry. We have not seen much of the answers to them, and we would like to see that. But it might come after the Corona. We expect that. Basically, Madam President, there is only one good recipe for increasing mental illness, and it is an equal society that requires rapid intervention, good care, follow-up medication and a school that accommodates all students and gives everyone a chance of life. I support the committee's proposal.
i-d29814b0fb157b52-622	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament and those of you sitting in front of the television or the web, perhaps in quarantine because of the coronapendem! We are now being tested as human beings. We are alone but not in our social distance. We are together in a trial where many sacrifices need to be made, where people get sick and are forced to be quarantined to protect themselves or to protect others who are more fragile and should not be exposed to the disease. It may be lonely there in the apartment, feeling desperate not to meet your older relatives or friends at the retirement home. It may feel desperate to be older and sit in a nursing home where you are not allowed to receive visits, where you are not allowed to meet your grandchildren. It may be hopeless because the job was lost in the way of the coronan, unconsolingly because the economy does not seem to go together in the crisis. That is why, Madam President, we must now do everything and more to reduce this difficult situation that has arisen. As a government party, we are doing everything we can to deal with this crisis, to make it as bearable as possible and to reduce its impact now and into the future. As a fellow human, I try to keep in touch with as many as I can and help those I have the opportunity to help. It is not surprising that the psychological strain is greater now than before and that more people will need support and care. That is why we need to step up these efforts. However, mental ill-health existed even before the pandemic, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to point out that the government is doing a lot in this particular area. Mental ill-health is one of the biggest challenges we face as a nation. The government is investing 2.2 billion in 2020 to curb mental illness, and a large part of this goes to work with children and young people who feel bad. We are also carrying out a major primary care reform in which we focus care at the same time as protecting the large emergency hospitals and specialised care. We bring care closer to man. You should have a contact that you keep for a long time and that knows you. The health centres will work with the whole public health picture, including mental health. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
