i-64a6490e68af15a3-4	Madam President, I would like This afternoon, Parliament will decide on another amending budget containing measures to deal with the consequences of the corona epidemic. The amending budget that we are debating today is entitled More powerful measures in relation to the Corona virus. In general, the Swedish Democrats agree with the government on proposed measures. However, not all measures are as strong as we think they should be. The Swedish Democrats therefore have a follow-up motion in which we are calling for some amendments that we consider to be reasonable, to say the least. The government proposes a temporary reinforcement of support for short-term work, which is a good thing. But that's not enough. The Swedish democrats still believe that the reduction of working time up to 100 per cent should be possible. Some companies have been hit by an almost total turnover step as a direct result of political decisions. Other companies have been affected in the same way, perhaps not primarily as a result of political decisions in Sweden but, for example, because components manufactured by subcontractors in other countries do not come forward so that the entire production line is thus stationary. In these cases, it is now a matter of direct overwintering until certain reliefs can be made and global value chains restarted. Therefore, lay-offs up to 100% should be possible. On Monday, Labour Force Survey figures, AKU, were reported for the month of April. The figures show a sharp decline in the number of people in work. At the same time, we see a dramatic increase in the number of layoffs. The latter can also be interpreted as worrying, but it suggests that a greater number of business failures have so far been avoided. Thus, the AKU figures could have looked even worse. Although the short-term costs are higher with an even higher lay-off rate, this option risks significantly higher costs later in the form of unemployment insurance and supply support, and reduced tax revenues through loss of income taxes, employers' contributions, corporate taxes, etc. In addition to this, we should also talk about the social costs and hardships of becoming unemployed or being forced into bankruptcy. We therefore believe that there is reason to extend the temporary lay-off so that 100% is possible. In this amending budget, the government proposes that the benefit of free parking should be granted tax-free throughout the year. The reasons for this are almost obvious, since we are constantly being called upon to limit the risk of being infected by the corona by keeping physical distance from each other. At the same time, many people cannot work at home and need to commute to and from their jobs. To make it easier for them to distance themselves from others is desirable for both humanitarian and economic reasons. However, we lack an understanding by the government that many do not have their own car to dispose of. For a single nurse, free parking may not be what she needs most help with. Madam President, I would like It is obvious to us that the benefit of paid travel in, for example, taxis between home and work should be exempt from preferential taxation for people working in corona-related tasks. In this way, we provide the opportunity to make it easier for staff without access to their own car. Furthermore, the Government proposes that employers should be able to give gifts to their employees for a value of SEK 1,000 without the gift resulting in tax for the employee. The reason for this temporary tax relief is to give employers the opportunity to promote local business through their employees. We have seen several initiatives around Sweden, where municipalities, for example, in various ways support a crisising local business community by distributing value vouchers to employees to use locally. These are good initiatives which, of course, should be facilitated in every way. But it was with great amazement that we read the government's amending budget and noted that the government does not care about the raised problem of the preferential taxation of free meals for health and care workers working with corona-related tasks. There are many of us who are incredibly grateful for the hard work and, in many cases, risky work carried out by health professionals. The Swedish Democrats consider that these professions should pay taxes on simple support such as free meals and free transport to and from work as directly offensive and urgently need to be adjusted. In addition to the Swedish Democrats, M and KD also exercised to temporarily abolish the preferential tax treatment of free meals for staff with corona-related tasks. We have supported and wet the issue in the Committee on Finance. The Tax Agency has made it clear to us that only one amendment of the law can guarantee relief in respect of the benefit tax. What we were able to agree on in the Finance Committee is that the Riksdag should, in an announcement to the Government, urge it to return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with a legislative proposal to temporarily exempt the professions concerned from preferential taxation on transport between home and work and on free meals. Madam President, I would like Since all parties in the Finance Committee agree on the absurdity of healthcare professionals with corona-related tasks being taxed preferentially for the little that can facilitate their everyday lives, the Swedish Democrats assume that the government will change its position on this issue and will promptly return to the Riksdag with a legislative proposal. Healthcare professionals should not have to worry about additional taxes due to the reception of meals and transport. Finally, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-16	Madam President, I would like We adapt; it is one of man's main survival characteristics. But there are also risks with it – to accept an extreme situation as the new normal: another daily press conference with death, another press conference on notice statistics and redundancies, and another amending budget with crisis measures of different sizes and with different meanings. It is important to remain sharp and to keep a clear eye on doing what you can. I am not saying this to point a finger at anyone, but I am telling myself. We must constantly think about what are the best measures in any given situation. It concerns each and every one of us. We must be able to report on the choice of ways and the choice of measures, and the government and parliament must urgently, continue and urgently work to get measures in place. It is our duty to all those for whom the reminders that this is not a normal situation are painfully clear – those who have seen one close go away and seen another become seriously ill or the long-term health care staff who do not know when the relief comes and when the breathing room enters. It is our duty to those entrepreneurs who see well-managed life's work merging in front of their eyes, to the employee who has received a notice of termination, and to the one who does not now receive that visit that illuminates life and pursues loneliness on the run. Madam President, I would like We must do what we can to create the best conditions for protecting life and health here and now and to reduce the economic damage, which we know will have major social consequences. They risk adding to alienation. They put vulnerable people further in the back of the labour market and make the situation worse for the vulnerable. The government has, in broad agreement in this House, not least at the start of the crisis, carried out a number of important reforms, such as the removal of health pay liability for companies, the removal of withdrawals, student funds, the expansion of unemployment funds and retroactive deferral of taxes and state credit guarantees. The Christian Democrats and the opposition have been able to contribute to improvements in several proposals, such as lay-off aid and tax suspension. We have been able to squeeze more resources for welfare and a turnover subsidy that will contribute to fewer bankruptcies and notice, although it could have been more extensive in time than has now been the case. At the same time, we lack Christian Democrats reforms that can contribute in the near future to the relief of those health workers who are now working hard in the crisis. And more reforms are needed to save the lives of associations and civil society, which we need now and later. Madam President, I would like We broadly welcome the content of this amending budget and the report by the Committee on Finance. It is good that the tax rules are now being changed so that health professionals are not taxed preferentially for free parking or certain gifts. It is also good that the Committee on Finance was able to agree that health and care workers should not have to have a tax burden on travel or lunches donated by private individuals and companies. Simply: There should be such a thing as a free lunch, at least for hardworking health workers in a crisis. We also welcome the strengthening of the possibilities of prosecuting fraud, not least when large support schemes are rolled out. It is also good that the government is listening to our and many entrepreneurs' objections about the deferral rate and that it is now being reduced, so that companies feel that they can really use the credit that the deferral provides. Madam President, I would like It is also good that the possible level of lay-off should be increased to 80 per cent. The lay-off aid is perhaps the most important instrument of crisis. It saves many jobs and retains production capacity in the business community. However, we would have liked to see that the lay-off aid could have been 90% and also that the salary ceiling had been raised, so that more professions would be fully covered. That is clear from our second reservation, which I would like to endorse. Madam President, I would like The title of the report begins with the words But again, there is a central change in the rules. I have, in debate after debate, repeatedly in this House, pointed out the strangeness of the fact that we are imposing and upholding a rule which obliges companies to lay off temporary staff if they wish to receive lay-off aid for their permanent employees. Every company applying for support from the Swedish Agency for Growth must therefore answer yes to the question whether they have fired enough employees with temporary, temporary, probationary or consultancy contracts in the midst of the crisis. Even people from Samhall will go out in the cold, otherwise the application will automatically be rejected. This is entirely in accordance with the legislation! The Authority has therefore requested this information from over 63 000 companies in Sweden. If temporary workers have been laid off sufficiently, they can be supported, otherwise they cannot. The question then has to be asked: how can a state framework in the worst economic crisis in modern times actively drive out people with a weaker position in the labour market into unemployment? I have tried to listen to the arguments, and so far, in my opinion, there have not been sustainable arguments for this rule to be important. On the contrary, I think. When the Christian Democrats suggested that the rule should be paused in connection with parliamentary treatment earlier, we were told that there was no preparation basis for doing so. That's not true. There is a dormant legislation from 2013 on short-term lay-offs that could have been used. It would have been possible to use that regulatory framework and to screw up the subsidy rate and the level of lay-off in it. The regulatory framework states that there should be no restrictions on forms of employment, because it is important that they are covered in a crisis. The 2012 study suggested that the exclusion of fixed-term workers from a short-term work scheme would risk making the situation of this group in the labour market more precarious. They should therefore be covered. This is based on the crisis experience. It is based on OECD evaluations. It is based on the 2011 Joint Report of the Parties which concluded that temporary employment should also be covered. It is noted that after the financial crisis, France, Austria, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg changed their systems to cover other forms of employment than permanent contracts precisely because they saw the consequence of the fact that the previous regulations did not take them into account, i.e. that those with more precarious forms of employment were twice affected in the crisis. But we in Sweden are not only doing the opposite, but we are also introducing a rule that forces companies to lay off staff if they want other support. You have to have the history clear. Why is this the case? Yes, a proposal was made for permanent lay-off aid to operate in a normal economic situation when an unforeseen event affects an individual company. That is what lies at the heart of it, but it is not the situation we have now. We have what the Economic Institute has defined as a particularly deep recession, and the Economic Institute has also said that the rule is inappropriate and that the government should remove it in this economic situation. It will be a strange crisis policy to keep this rule in a situation where we have a crisis that is not caused by a risk-taking in the business world, but by a factor based on the future in which every one should be able to remain in employment as far as possible. I think it is time we started to make a little more sustainable arguments than those that have been presented so far. For example, the Minister of Finance said in a debate that I presented a new approach to the issue. This is not very new because it was investigated in 2012 and is also in dormant legislation. Some other arguments have also been put forward. There has been talk of cheating. Yes, fraud risks are present in the systems, but the reference month three months back then also applies in such cases to temporary staff. And neither the investigation in 2012 nor the investigation in 2018 have alleged cheating as a reason to limit this in terms of employment status. That argument is therefore not very sustainable either. I have repeatedly asked the January parties why it is so important to go contrary to OECD evaluations, contrary to most European countries, contrary to the Economic Institute and contrary to the 2012 study and to a regulatory framework forcing people with fixed-term jobs into unemployment. I have not received any answers so far, but perhaps I can have it in today's debate.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-40	Madam President, I would like Today, then, Parliament is to decide on another amending budget with additional measures to meet the very serious consequences of the Corona crisis. The spread of the virus is a serious threat to human health and life, but there is also no doubt that this has had very serious economic consequences. Large parts of the world economy have slowed down and entire societies are affected. We see this not least in our own country. We now need to take a huge social responsibility to reduce the spread of infection and to hold on to this situation. But, of course, it is also necessary for us in the political system to continue to provide the necessary support for health care and for us to mitigate the economic consequences that we can all see. With strong public finances in our backs, we can take on this challenge better than many others. Madam President, I would like On February 3, the government classified Coronavirus infection as a social disease. Since then, the government has been working on a clear strategy whereby the spread of infection should be slowed down, where healthcare should receive all the resources required, where Swedish jobs and companies should be saved and where the security and possibility of transition for those who still become unemployed should be strengthened. When it comes to preventing the spread of infection and supporting health care, the message is clear: The state is responsible for all extraordinary healthcare and care costs linked to the Corona virus. Money should not, must not and will not stand in the way of the important work of healthcare and care. Today, we are deciding on further measures to reduce the spread of infection and to facilitate the provision of healthcare and care services. A temporary law on temporary tax exemption for the benefit of parking in connection with the workplace is introduced. Today, many people work from home, while health care staff and other community-supporting activities must be able to get to work, sometimes with different ways of travel than the collective ones. It is reasonable for them to be able to park in connection with their workplace for a certain period of time without being subject to preferential taxation. While the Corona virus has hit our society hard, it has turned out that many around the country take responsibility and want to help. Many employers have shown a willingness to promote local business through their employees in this difficult situation. It is therefore proposed to extend temporarily the tax exemption for gifts up to a value of SEK 1 000. This enables the employer to contribute through donations to employees to increase consumption and to support vulnerable industries and businesses in the local business community. It is also a united committee which is today sending an announcement to the government to urgently come back with a proposal to extend tax exemption to meals and transports for health workers. Madam President, I would like In order to help Swedish companies overwinter during the crisis and to retain their personnel, short-term lay-offs have been introduced. At the moment, that system covers nearly half a million employees. Over 20 billion have so far been paid out by the Swedish Agency for Growth. According to the Government's forecasts, 1.3 million Swedish employees will have been laid off in 2020. It is estimated to cost the Treasury close to SEK 100 billion. Today, we are further strengthening short-term lay-offs. The possibility of lay-off is extended. Workers can reduce working hours to 80 per cent. The fact that the state is responsible for a large part of the wage cost of the absence of working time allows us to lift costs from the companies while at the same time strengthening the security of the employees who can keep their jobs. And companies can stand ready to once again produce and take on new market shares once the crisis is over. In order to make it even easier for companies to complete their jobs, it is proposed to reduce the deferral fee for those who defer payment of tax or who have even received back tax that has previously been paid. The first half of the year is not subject to any deferment fee. It is then reduced from 0.3 to 0.2 percent per month. Tax payers make very large amounts of money available to get us out of the crisis. It's about hundreds of billions of dollars. Our common economic strength is thus used to help the Swedish economy overwinter and to support fundamentally viable Swedish companies. It is therefore clear that the support should go to those who have problems and crisis. It is not for actors to take advantage of the crisis for their own profit that they should receive this help. Therefore, the Tax Agency must be able to withdraw tax deferrals in whole or in part if the taxpayer has provided incorrect or misleading information. In order to ensure that the aid is used correctly, it is also proposed that the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency should be given the opportunity to check and review the activities that receive support. It is therefore a question of ensuring that the data are correct. In addition, the Tax Agency is given the opportunity to improve the efficiency of the exchange of information in relation to its taxation activities and civil registration activities. It will help to curb undue payments from welfare systems and will help to curb fraud and other financial crime. Madam President, I would like In recent months, the government has acted forcefully and put forward a package of crises of historical proportions. Thanks to broad cooperation in the Swedish Parliament and not least in the Finance Committee, we have been able to pool our efforts together to take responsibility for Sweden. In total, we have set up a crisis package for over SEK 240 billion in direct government costs and over SEK 560 billion in credits and guarantees. We can do this because we have strong public finances. In recent years, economic policy has been much about equipping the Swedish economy and creating resilience. It now provides scope for large investments and support measures. When we are through the crisis, we will be able to get Sweden back on track. I support the committee's proposal.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-55	Madam President, I would like It is indeed a time of anxiety and uncertainty. Over the past few months, many have felt anxiety about getting sick. Many may have been concerned about their loved ones who have struggled for their lives. Many young people are concerned about the labour market ahead. In addition, they have missed or will miss their real matriculation examination. This characterizes us in many different ways. The uncertainty is enormous. I think we're all wondering, when is it gonna end? We do not know, but we know one thing: the crisis is still going on, both on a human level and on an economic level. Right now, many people in Swedish healthcare and care for the elderly, at the front of the front, are fighting to support and help those who are seriously ill in covid-19. We Moderates have stated during these months that we think that the staff should be encouraged, more than just fine words from here in this House. They should receive a supplement to their salary, a corona supplement that would show that we are really serious about our appreciation for the fine, fantastic and hard work they do every day and every night. That has not been the case. However, with the proposal in this report, on which we are now going to decide, we will at least ensure that those working in the front line against the Corona virus do not need to be taxed preferentially for the food they can get under an extra passport or for choosing a transport that does not expose them to infection. At these times, Madam President, the staff should not be taxed preferentially. The economy has been hit with the full force of this virus. We have seen a major change on both the supply side and the demand side. This is often talked about in the national economy. The supply is what we produce and manufacture. In Sweden, those who produce goods and services have experienced a stop. This may, for example, be because a component from Italy has not been able to arrive. We've seen factories close temporarily. A large supply shock has hit the economy. At the same time, a major demand shock has hit the Swedish economy. What does that mean? The demand for hotel nights, travel, restaurant visits and events has simply fallen, often from one hundred to ten or to zero within a few weeks. The Swedish economy has thus suffered with full force from a very large crisis. In crises such as these, Madam President, it is important that we can all put the party premiere aside and put the best in Sweden first. Everyone in here has shown a great deal of it, and I appreciate it. I think we all feel that we have been involved in helping to do what we can to save jobs and businesses. From the Moderates' side, from day one, we have worked out radical proposals that can get jobs and businesses to overwinter in this crisis. Here are a few examples: already on 18 March, we presented a company with government interest-rate credits, where the government assumes a great deal of responsibility for the risk so that the credit can reach the companies that most need it. A week later, the government just presented a business case. We presented state aid for the rental costs of companies. It took a few days so the government and the cooperation parties presented the same. We have pushed the issue of abolishing employers' contributions during the worst crisis, because these contributions are the great, heavy cost. The government and the support parties presented a few days later at least a substantial reduction in employers' contributions. They met us on that point, which I think was very good. On 7 April, we proposed a turnover subsidy for those companies that have lost the most in revenue. On 30 April, the January parties presented a similar proposal. Good! Important for jobs – important for companies. Today we are going to decide on some things that we and other opposition parties have been pursuing. One is precisely the question of being able to lay off at more than 60%. Now it's 80 percent over a few months. It is very, very good and will save additional jobs and businesses. The interest rate, which many of us have criticised for being too high, is halved with today's decision. All of this shows the strength that still exists in Swedish politics. Together we have been quick to make the right and real decisions to save jobs and companies, and it has served Sweden very well. Madam President, I would like The report states that this is the sixth amending budget. From the government, it is. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that in January Parliament decided on an amending budget initiated by the opposition here in the Swedish Parliament. This has also shown that the opposition has a tremendous power. The opposition in the Swedish Parliament is in the majority, and when we see social problems and problems that need to be addressed we have also been able to gather. It's about money for welfare. Already before the crisis, the welfare sectors were under great pressure from demography, integration problems and lack of growth. We saw that more resources were needed, and that is why we took the initiative for more resources. We did it again only a few weeks ago when we showed in our various spring budgets that welfare activities need more resources than the January parties do. Now we will again see more resources for the very, very important activities that, in the midst of the deepest crisis, must not make savings and cuts, because it would deepen the recession. We have worked together these months, Madam President, but the opposition has also shown that we have a great deal of influence and put the best in Sweden first. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that when this emergency phase is over, Sweden will need to restart. But we did not enter the crisis with the best conditions. Sweden had one of the highest levels of unemployment across the EU when we entered this crisis. Sweden had the worst growth per capita and long-term care queues before entering the crisis, all after a government that has soon ruled for six years during a strong boom. Therefore, unfortunately, Sweden does not have the best conditions when the acute crisis is hopefully over soon. We will have to fight unemployment for years to come. In years to come, we will need to give even greater priority to the core tasks of welfare and the judiciary and to take back the work line. Otherwise, in 2020, Sweden will have very big economic problems that are also about things that this government has not been able to fix during the boom. But that's what we'll do later. Now is now. We have no reservation, because we have got through our request on preferential taxation. We therefore support the proposal in the report but have a special opinion, Madam President.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-77	Madam President, I would like There are a number of debates, a number of amending budgets and a number of extraordinary measures that we have initiated and implemented this spring. When the Corona crisis took its first staggering steps, we all had the ambition and hope that this deal would be ready for the summer and that autumn would offer some kind of way back to what we felt was a normal state before the Corona crisis. I guess there's less or less evidence of that. It is likely that the old saying that you cannot go down the same river twice also applies. No matter how long the process goes, it will be another world and another Sweden that we wake up in that day the Corona crisis can be written off as a historical passus. So there's a lot of work left, probably. Of course, there are clouds of concern in the sky. I think there are many of us who hope for a situation where the recommendations for summer can be such that we can take part of Summer Sweden in a good way, that we can holiday and tourist and not least contribute to the tourism industry and the regions in Sweden that depend on the tourism industry having a summer season that is as little bad as possible. I think the hope that this will be a good summer because the tourism industry is out, but the hope is of course that we can experience a Summer Sweden that looks like it usually does. That hope remains. Let us keep our fingers crossed because that is the case; otherwise we in this House will have to resolve additional categories of problems with additional levels of extraordinary political action. Today we have to decide on a number of things, but perhaps it is above all a question of strengthening the short-term lay-off system that was developed quite quickly. This means that, as an employee, you can be laid off down to 80 percent of your working hours and work 20 percent, in many ways while keeping wages. This is a reinforcement over three months and a continuation of a system that therefore applies for a total of six plus three months. This is a very strong and effective subsidy and measure to save Swedish jobs and something that will be very difficult for the public purse. However, it is worth it, I think we all know. There are already so many Swedish jobs and jobs that have been saved thanks to this. This means that Swedish companies can keep their employees on the payrolls. This means that when we step out of the crisis in some form of normality, Swedish companies will be equipped to take those orders, to start production as quickly as possible and so on. It is expensive but wise policy. A minor but important issue is the reduction in tax dues in the tax account. In fact, it can be said that both the increased short-term lay-off and the now reduced charge on the tax account have something in common: we act quickly, but we are also prepared to make minor adjustments during the journey. The fact that there was such high interest on the tax account at the beginning was because it took an existing proposal, implemented it as quickly as possible and produced this credit line to the Swedish companies. The latest figure I have seen shows that more than 30 billion have been used in liquidity supplements to Swedish companies. That's good. But it was obvious from the start that if this is to be used a little more long-term – as it now appears – the interest rate on an annual basis will be excessive. Now it's adjusting, and that's how we have to keep working, I think. We shall act quickly but be prepared to fine-tune the proposals during the journey, given that the perfect proposal cannot be achieved in Mode 1. It is better to act quickly and well than perfectly later. A third point I would like to highlight among the decisions we are about to make today is the increased opportunities for the Swedish Tax Agency to exchange information between different parts of the agency, combined with increased powers for tax and growth agencies to control and analyse the companies receiving the subsidies. These are important parts of the follow-up work. We see small but clear signs that there are ugly fish trying to grab the billions in an improper way. It is difficult to imagine something more immoral, unsolidaric and unpatriotic way of acting in a situation where we see a social gathering to counter an acute crisis. When we put our common resources at our disposal to save both welfare and jobs, businesses and central social functions, then to sit and think about how, by stretching or breaking the rules, I can grab some of the cake is completely unacceptable and must meet with the hardest possible hold. We are now giving the relevant authorities more opportunity to act. I do not rule out following up with further penalties or the like, in order to ensure that, when we act together, there is no room for criminal elements or dishonest people and businesses to unduly grab the cake. That is not the way to act in a crisis situation. It is immoral, unsolidaric and, in the true sense of the word, unpatriotic. It is therefore a good thing that we should decide on increased possibilities for controls. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-88	Madam President, I would like It has been a dry spring in large parts of the country, but if it is something that comes close, it is extra amending budgets in the Swedish parliament. What we are now debating is supplementary amending budget No 6. Normally, there are two amending budgets per year. They usually contain a few billion apiece and are a correction of government policy during the current financial year. This supplementary amending budget contains expenditure of around 75 billion. It says something about the economic crisis that Sweden is in and the situation that exists in relation to the coronavirus. We are all more or less concerned by the crisis. There are many of us who have been affected by the Corona virus in the family, in the family or at close range, and we have a concern – with all that it means. There are many who have lost their jobs, or risk losing their jobs. Young people will find it difficult to get into the labour market, and tenants stand there with a big lump in their stomach and wonder how they will cope with the rent. The Left Party has tried, in the processes of the supplementary amending budgets, to work to make them simply better. The proposals will be better, and we have highlighted and initiated various issues. For example, we were out early demanding a strengthened unemployment fund, which also came later. We were out early and demanded that the withdrawal be abolished, which was also later carried out. Although it is a truth with modification, because the withdrawal is not abolished. It has become a withdrawal premium. It is only abolished for people with very low incomes. It's good in itself, but it's hard enough being a nurse and having to be home from work when everyone needs your help. To then also have to lose financially when you have as low a income as about 25 000 per month of being forced to stay at home for example for snubs – which you should – is not reasonable. Therefore, the withdrawal should be abolished altogether. We have also proposed a fund for tenants so that they can get reduced rent, just like companies. The government is now introducing a reinforcement of the housing allowance, and that is good in itself, but it does not really reach the same target group. I would urge the government and the cooperation parties to look at our proposal and also to introduce a moratorium on evictions during the crisis. The Left Party was early out demanding more money for welfare. It is not reasonable for substantial cuts to be made throughout the country in the midst of the worst crisis. Why should there be cuts in preschool and school, in care for the elderly and in care when these services are needed so much both in a normal situation and even more in an economic crisis? In January we pushed through 7 1⁄2 billion together with the Moderates, and again this spring we have taken new initiatives and thus obtained more money. But the cuts continue. Today I can read in the newspaper at home that Gävle Municipality will save 167 million and that notice can be expected. A total of 167 million is equivalent to the salaries of more than 300 employees. I can promise you that every single one of them is needed in Gävle Municipality's service to its citizens. Fewer preschool teachers, fewer teachers or fewer nurses are not needed, but more are needed. So why save during an economic crisis like this — a Corona crisis? I think that the government parties and the cooperation parties should respond to this. More money is needed for welfare. The budget we are now debating contains, above all, a large amount of lay-off aid, that is to say, an extension of the existing lay-off aid. That is very good and very necessary. About 500 000 people in Sweden are laid off today. There is an unemployment rate of 450 000 people. These are historical figures in the wrong direction. Unemployment is dwindling in so many ways. It strikes the economy of both the individual and society, the state, the municipalities and the regions. It is a source of cohesion and confidence in the future. People's willingness to contribute is not taken advantage of, and they lose confidence and see their knowledge and skills crumble. Society loses what is the basis of all prosperity and well-being. Therefore, it is good that there is lay-off support so that jobs can be saved. The very purpose of the aid is to save jobs, to feel secure at a difficult time, so that the skills and know-how of companies are exploited and so that companies are prepared when the economy turns again. We are now proposing an extension of aid, and we think that is a good thing. Taxpayers should take a higher cost for companies. Then we in the Left Party think that it is reasonable that the companies that are going to collect the extended share that taxpayers should account for should have collective agreements. We would have liked to have called for motions on this, but it is not going to be a supplementary amending budget. In committee, the Left Party has also mentioned that lay-off aid should not be used for dismissal salaries. Not a single party has thought it reasonable. Although the whole purpose of lay-off aid is to save jobs, other parties believe that taxpayers' money should be used to pay dismissal salaries for companies. Why? Why should companies not themselves bear the costs of redundancies when taxpayers want to save jobs? Why should taxpayers pay this money to companies for giving up their employees? What is the purpose of that? Not an answer. I had hoped for an answer today, but unfortunately not. It is not at all reasonable that the lay-off aid should be used in this way. We in the Left Party will continue to recall this, and perhaps one day more people will realise that it is totally counterproductive to the purpose of using lay-off aid in this way. Madam President, I would like I would also like to point out that, if we had been allowed to exercise, we in the Left Party would have thought that we should remove preferential taxation on all the meals that healthcare workers have now received from people who appreciate their hard work. We would also not have thought that taxis or transport by staff in other ways should be taxed preferentially. Now the opposition in the Committee on Finance has got the whole Committee on Finance to support such a proposal, which is very good. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say that it is a good thing to remove preferential taxation, but what should be done above all is to improve working conditions and the working environment, raise wages and ensure that health and care workers have more colleagues. We would also have thought that the grant level, i.e. the level that should not be subject to preferential taxation, which is set at SEK 1 000 in the supplementary amending budget, should be increased. But we're the only ones. The Left Party is behind the supplementary amending budget. We have a special opinion that we think there is a need for more measures for ordinary people, how we view lay-off aid and that we are pleased that the preferential taxation of meals and taxis for health care workers during this time is being removed.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-102	Madam President, I would like This is a pretty special crisis. It is a crisis that strikes through all layers of society, hitting the whole world at the same time and that actually for once makes the entire Swedish parliament, from left to right, understand – at least in some of the amending budgets – that prosperity and welfare are connected. Madam President, I would like After all, if we had not had viable companies, people who go to work or entrepreneurs who create something for others, then we would not have been able to finance welfare either. That is what this is all about. It is about ensuring that welfare works so that those who work actively to combat the virus get decent conditions. But it is also about ensuring that we can finance welfare in the long term by maintaining prosperity, by saving entrepreneurship, by ensuring that people keep their jobs, by ensuring that there is an economy also tomorrow when the crisis is over. Madam President, I would like China hasn't just given us this China virus, covid-19. When that virus passes in the next phase, there is a risk that China is a different kind of virus, a virus that buys up important companies and profits when the Swedish economy is in ruins. It is also for this reason that we need to make post-amending amending budgets here and now in order to strengthen the Swedish economy and strengthen viable Swedish companies so that they become resilient, not only to the economic crisis now, but also to such threats from other countries such as China. Madam President, I would like It is therefore a good thing that we are now extending the system of short-term lay-offs. Life-strong companies should not have to go bankrupt because they suffer a crisis that comes from outside and that they themselves cannot or have done anything to deserve. It is for these reasons that it is good that we are now ensuring that gifts to employees are included in tax exemption. It may be a matter of a municipality handing out cheques that you can trade with in the local business community. This is something that is good both for those who are employed by the municipality and for the business community. It is good for both welfare and prosperity, and that is exactly what the work we in the Swedish Parliament are now doing to curb the Corona crisis is all about. Madam President, I would like I am also very pleased that the Liberals in the negotiations have had a strong response to this by temporarily removing preferential taxation in parking. It is clear that it is unreasonable for us from the state side to say that you should not go collectively, that you should not go with others, but that you have to go to work because we have a crisis where people need to work to save lives – while at the same time going on a tax ride if you get parking as a benefit. It is clear that it is positive that we have got this through in our negotiations, but of course it will not be enough all the way. We're going to have to do more. Madam President, I would like We in the Committee on Finance have now managed to agree on a declaration on the issue of preferential taxation at lunches and on food that altruistic people themselves have chosen to donate to those who work in health care. Of course, it is completely unreasonable that a person who works and toils hard in the care and does everything he can to save lives and who someone else wants to offer a lunch, a scammer, should go on a tax bust. That, of course, is completely unreasonable; everyone understands that. That is why we managed to reach agreement on this in the Committee on Finance, and I am very pleased about that. What becomes clear, however, in our discussions is that it is unreasonable, as has been done up to now, to make demands of a hardworking, under pressure and stressed, for example, a nurse to know exactly what is to be taxed for benefit and not. Let me give you some examples. If you get coffee, such as a bun, at your workplace, it should not be taxed for benefit. But if you get a pizza, which is a bread with spreads just like a bun, it should be taxed preferentially. But, Madam President, what about the pizza bun? How's the pizza bun? You do not know, and it is difficult for a stressed and pressed person who is offered a pizza bun by the local bakery to know whether or not to tax it preferentially. It is not just a tax burden; it is also the case that until now, when we take this initiative, we have made totally unreasonable demands. The same goes for salad. How much fruit should it be for coffee and fruit salad? Is there enough raisins in the green salad? Or is it enough that the banana is peeled and chopped up to be considered cooked for lunch? I don't know. I can't tell. There are certainly experts at the Swedish Tax Agency who can decide on this, but it is completely unreasonable to require stressed and pressured health professionals to be able to make that assessment. It is for this reason that one should not go on a completely unreasonable tax burden afterwards because someone has been nice and given a pizza bun, a salad with some raisins in it or something else, which we in a united finance committee are now trying to get rid of this unreasonable preferential taxation.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-114	Madam President, I would like I do not know if you will remember the first weeks of the crisis that we are in. Then people started in panic bunkering toilet paper. The fear that goods would run out was great, and it was not just toilet paper. I have to admit that a few rolls extra but also cans of ravioli and crushed tomatoes ended up in my bag when I was out shopping those first few weeks. The fear was basically that the transport of goods would not work. That fear has so far proved unwarranted. It is important that our transport operations continue to work. Then, among other things, there must be drivers who can drive trucks with goods, such as toilet paper, to our stores. Madam President, I would like In order to ensure that there are drivers who can transport goods, it is good that the government has now, under pressure from both the opposition and the haulage industry, accepted that vocational qualifications training needs to be postponed and therefore prolongs the validity of existing professional qualifications. Training that must be carried out for the YKB to be extended is not possible in these coronatides, and the risk would have been that drivers had no longer been allowed to drive. The European Commission has given Sweden and other EU countries the opportunity to grant an exemption in respect of the validity of certificates of professional competence which expire between 1 March and 31 August. The period of validity may be extended by six months. Unfortunately, the government did not use the Commission's proposal to its fullest extent and contented itself with allowing it to apply in Sweden for certificates of professional competence which expire between 1 March and 31 May. The government should have taken advantage of the opportunities offered by the Commission and not disadvantaged Swedish haulage companies. Madam President, I would like Another issue that becomes clear at this time is the importance that the government should have worked much earlier with authorities and other government agencies to develop distance training courses for this type of training. It would have made it easier for professional drivers if there were already better opportunities to carry out YKB training digitally. This would have made it easier whether it is a time of crisis or not. The government urgently needs to start working on the issue of digital education so that these can be in place in the near future. This is something we point out in the reservation we have in common with the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like It is important that we make it easier for our haulage industry so that transport can work during these times of crisis and so that goods can arrive at our businesses and businesses. Transport becomes even more important in these times, when many avoid going to the shops and are in quarantine and need deliveries all the way to their homes. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that I support Amendment No 2.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-121	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved. Madam President, I would like Every heavy-duty driver requires a valid YKB, i.e. a certificate of professional competence. For passenger transport, the new Act entered into force on 10 September 2008. For freight, the following year came, on 10 September 2009. The first period, which was a transitional period, had a time frame of seven years. This means that many drivers in the first group have an YKB that will expire in the coming summer; thus, their YKB does not apply unless they have been able to renew all parts of the course. Madam President, I would like Right now, our whole society is affected by the Corona crisis, and our transport is more important than ever to ensure important social functions. But now many drivers are at risk of being parked because they have not been able to complete all the modules before their YKB expires. The drivers concerned have both C and D on their driving licences. I talk almost daily to hauliers or drivers who do not find suitable courses to attend. Only yesterday, I spent much of the evening talking to hauliers in this particular situation. In the order in which the sub-courses are carried out, the driver is free to choose; the important thing is that all the elements take place during the five-year period. When the last module is completed, a new YKB will be issued for the next five years. This is where the problems arise during the current pandemic. Drivers are at risk of being hindered in their important professional activities because they do not find the last and necessary module before the end of the period. Educators set course sessions due to the ongoing coronapandemine, which means that the number of courses available is limited. Many road hauliers also choose not to send their drivers to training because of the infection orgy; they simply do not want to risk the drivers suffering from this disease. For trainers, this means that the courses must take place in premises with particularly large spaces in order for the participants to be able to sit at a safe distance between themselves – otherwise the hauliers do not send their drivers on a course. The public health authority's recommendation of a maximum of two hours' drive from home is an additional factor affecting the situation. There is therefore a great risk that many drivers will not be able to complete their last courses before the end of the hours. The government has certainly had good ambitions to find a solution to the situation, but the proposal is unclear. As one of the referral bodies puts it: the legal engineering structure is difficult to achieve. We have a situation in which courses for YKB are cancelled or where employers do not send their employees to the courses due to the infection risk. The problem is similar across Europe, which is why the European Commission has put forward a proposal that goes beyond the government proposal. COM( 2020) 176 proposes that the derogation period runs from 1 March to 31 August 2020. We need this derogation on the ground as soon as possible. The government has certainly had the ambition to solve the problem for the industry, but it has not taken the full step. The Swedish democrats believe that it would be good for the industry with a clear time perspective. The proposal only states that the Government may provide for an extension of the period of validity. So there is no clear answer to all those waiting for it. An extension does not affect road safety or other important objectives of the YKB as it is already professional drivers who are affected by the exemption.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-130	Madam President, I would like Covid-19 has hit Sweden in a terrible way, which has resulted in over 4 000 people having passed away. The medical staff are working around the clock to stop the virus's ravages. While we have a care crisis caused by covid-19, we have a new economic crisis to deal with. Reduced civic mobility and reduced trade have created major economic problems, which we are all trying to deal with through various forms of conversion aid. I think it is important to call it conversion aid, because this will probably take time. At the same time, the spread of the virus has made it more difficult for transport authorities to carry out the training needed for drivers to upgrade their professional certificates. We therefore have two crises. We have a health crisis – or a health problem – and an economic problem, and we have to deal with them both. Madam President, I would like The committee supports the Government's proposal to amend the Act on Professional Drivers' Competences. The amendment introduces an authorisation for the Government to provide for an extension of the period of validity of certificates of professional competence and for certain exceptions to the Act. This will take effect from 1 June 2020. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we support this, although we believe and have emphasised that the government should work to ensure that this exception has the possibility of being fairly long-term. However, we support the proposal in that part. Madam President, I would like We are therefore fundamentally in favour of the proposal in the Government's proposal, but at the same time we would like to point out the need for companies to issue various forms of certificates, licences and permits to carry out the training necessary to maintain certificates, licences and permits at a distance. We believe that the advantage of a distance procedure is that the training providers' ability to maintain their activities can then be ensured, and we believe that it will thus be possible to get out of the current crisis with a maintained structure for training providers. We want increased opportunities for distance learning, and we therefore want to see the Government urgently investigate the conditions for increasing the opportunities for distance learning in terms of certificates, licences and licences relating to the certificates of professional competence. We also believe that distance learning has to do with health. This enables people to undergo their education without having to meet each other, which is one of the reasons why we are currently shutting down. For us, it is precisely these two pieces, a care situation affected by the disease, but also practical issues for transport to work, and we must be able to deal with these at the same time. Madam President, I would like From a Christian Democrat point of view, we are in favour of the Christian Democratic and Moderate reservation, reservation No 2.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-139	Madam President, I would like Almost four months ago the first case was discovered by covid-19 in Sweden. Since then, our whole society has changed. Many have become ill, many have become healthy, some have died and others have survived. No one has so far been unmoved, and the whole world is in a difficult situation. Of course, it is very obvious in our country and also here in the Swedish parliament and in the matters that we are now dealing with. Madam President, I would like This case concerns the Government's proposal to extend the period of validity of professional competence. It is absolutely necessary in the context of the covid-19 situation that we can ensure that measures are taken to reduce the spread of the virus and maintain social functions, which could otherwise have consequences for people's lives and health. In order to carry out the carriage of goods and passengers, the driver must have a certificate of professional competence. It is, of course, a social guarantee to ensure that drivers who carry out transport must have the basic skills and training required by the Professional Competence Act. It is about knowledge of safety regulations, rational driving, optimisation of fuel consumption, regulations for professional traffic, road safety, health, service, transport logistics, and so on. A certificate of professional competence is valid for five years. Thereafter, it shall be continuously updated by continuing training for a renewed period of validity. What the bill is about is that we temporarily withdraw from the rule of five years' validity. The period of validity should be extended during the autumn so that people do not have to meet to the same extent as they otherwise need to do in connection with education. The proposal aims at certificates of professional competence which expire between 1 March and 30 November. That is why we are questioning the Swedish Democrats' reservation. There is really no difference of opinion between the parties in the Swedish parliament and the government that we need to have a working system for this to work. There are different rules to be synchronised here, on the one hand, national rules and, on the other, rules at EU level. Last night, the Minister for Infrastructure was on the Transport Committee. He was very clear that if there is a need from the industry for further extension of the period of validity, it will also be done. At the same time, however, we must be aware that it is very important both for road safety and for laws and regulations to be complied with that there is continuous training. I will also address the reservations of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. They raise the issue of distance training, which is certainly a good thing, but we do not really see that the issue belongs here. I would also like to remind the House that it was just over a month ago that we discussed the proposal for the implementation of amendments to the Professional Drivers Directive, which is linked to common EU rules and which also opens up for distance training. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that it is gratifying that, overall, we agree that we need to do everything we can to deal with the current situation caused by covid-19. We will have to come back if the provisions we are now dealing with are not sufficient. In that case, of course, we have to bring them up again. There shall be no doubt about this. I believe, above all, that we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism should jointly ensure that continuing training and training can take place effectively in the future too, and distance learning can be such a way. However, I do not believe that it can be guaranteed that only distance learning can be carried out when it comes to professional competence, because there are several different things and a lot of physical elements to be tested. Of course, we are all concerned that this can be done in a good way. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the proposal by the Committee on Transport and Tourism and the Government's proposal and call for all reservations to be rejected.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-149	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by responding to what the honourable Member sent us Swedish democrats. The proposal does not provide for any timeframes for the derogation. The time frame available is from 1 March to 31 May. But then it says in Chapter 13. Section 3 that the Government may provide for an extension of the period of validity and that an extension may not last longer than six months. The situation we are in right now is difficult for many hauliers. I spoke to a driver in a haulage company yesterday who loses the right to drive in mid-June, and that applies to EU transporters. This means that several drivers can no longer pursue their profession if they do not receive this exemption or if drivers do not find a course that they can pursue before 31 May. This slows down food supply, and this is just one of many hauliers who are in the same situation. In connection with our committee meeting, I asked Sweden's Åkeri company how many drivers are included in the group that have the combination C and D in the driving licence, i.e. heavy truck and bus. And it is somewhere between 3 000 and 5 000 drivers in this group who must somehow find an education or be able to carry out the training later and thus be exempted from this rule. Doing so in no way affects road safety, but it ensures important social functions.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-152	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Thomas Morell for the description of the problems facing hauliers and many drivers, and that is precisely what this proposal is about. I don't see any difference of opinion. What is important is that we get this bill out now, so that we can deal with the temporary problems that arise. Then we will never be able to customs on road safety and the training and training that needs to be provided for this profession. I think that the certificate of professional competence is important, and it is also important that there should be further training. But I do not think that we should have too far-reaching exceptions, because that will cause future problems. As soon as possible, these trainings should be able to start again, and then we need to have a fingertip sensitivity. Then there are different rules that harmonise with each other: on the one hand, our own national legislation and, on the other, EU rules. The important thing is that we make this decision today. Then we will have to jointly monitor these issues. The Minister was clearly open yesterday in committee because, if we see that there is a need to extend the period of validity, it will, of course, be met. However, we should be aware that pushing the period of validity very far ahead creates future problems, as there are very many who are going to renew their certificates of professional competence at the same time. But as long as it is about the spread of infection and people's lives and safety, it is self-evident, so I see no difference of opinion here. I think it's more like crossing the line a little bit. We need to get these decisions out quickly so that we can act in the way needed for transport to work in Sweden.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We have no disagreement on the proposal. What we were looking for was a clearer time perspective so that the industry knows what it has to go after. In the case of distance training, a regulation has been adopted as from 23 May. Of the total 35 hours of CVT, 12 can now be carried out remotely. It will therefore be possible to do some things remotely with the new regulatory framework in force. This will make things easier. There are also elements in the training that need to be done on site, including CPR, CPR, CPR, rational driving and so on. I myself have trained at YKB since the law was introduced and am well aware of what needs to be done and not done. It would have been good if we had had a clear timeframe and a clear perspective on this. I do not think that will be enough, not even the proposal that is in the European Union, because it will be extended if the disease continues for a long time. This will cause concern in the future, but I have no fear that it will in any way adversely affect road safety. We're talking about training. They are drivers who have been active for at least five years. The vast majority have been active in the profession for 30 years, so they do not pose any danger to the public or other road users. The training will be carried out, but we will take it later. It would have been good if we had a clear time perspective. That is what our exercise was about.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-162	Madam President, I would like Thank you, so much, Thomas Morell! I still do not see any real differences of opinion, but the important thing is that we get the dossiers out. I mentioned the problem of distance learning, just as you mentioned in your line, and that not everything can be done remotely. Parts go, and we have opened up to it through decisions here in Parliament. It is not something new, but it happened just recently. There are changes going on here. No one could count on us to have a pandemic that comes between us, but the important thing is that we do what we can here and now. This will also be done by means of the decision we have to take this afternoon, so that both passenger transport and freight services can continue and function despite the fact that we have a current pandemic.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-165	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I agree with Mrs Lindberg's argumentation. The proposal we have now is an exception. I fully agree, and that is why, among other things, we have supported it. As far as the time span is concerned, we understand the view that the Swedish Democrats are highlighting, but we have chosen to support the bill. I would like to confirm what Mr Teres Lindberg pointed out, namely that the Minister is clear that if there are more needs, the government is prepared to look at it. We believe that this is important from a Christian Democrat point of view. It is an important signal from the government, because it may be so bad that it has not gone off this autumn. In those parts I feel safe, and there I have acted. We have included distance training in our exercise, and this is linked to the fact that when we have met transport entrepreneurs in different parts of the country and also talked to their various organisations, they have highlighted that they want a double strategy. They want what we are going to decide on today, namely an exception. This solves an acute problem. They also see the need to be able to educate, for it actually comes one day after the Corona. The more people who pass their training at a distance, the fewer need to use the exception. They themselves signal that it would be a good door to open. That is why we are highlighting it in the motion, and we are also highlighting it in the sense that the government should take more initiatives in this regard. It is quite correct that it is in a way a dual approach, but we are calling for this very dual approach.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-169	Madam President, I would like I agree with what you say, Magnus Jacobsson, but the dilemma is that it does not really belong here. Moreover, it was quite recently, just a month ago, that we raised this issue, which opens up for distance training. I very much welcome that. We agreed on that, and there was not even a debate in this House on the issue. One could almost say that it was a transport matter in which we were in complete agreement. It is a question of harmonising EU rules, which will apply throughout Europe. That's great. However, the whole and the necessary training cannot by definition be carried out at a distance. It is clear that, like you, I welcome the distance elements, but what cannot be done remotely within the framework of professional qualifications must continue to be done physically. This is really what the matter is about. It is not a question of replacing something with distance learning; it is a question of the fact that in cases where physical training should not be carried out for reasons of human health and life, it should not happen. In substance, we fully agree that distance learning is important, but it does not belong here. We've already dealt with it. I hope that we can follow it together and find good solutions in this area.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-172	Madam President, I would like This may sound a bit like a battle for the pope's beard, which it probably is to some extent. On the matter, we are very much in agreement. What Mr Teres Lindberg says is quite correct. We have had processes here in Parliament before where we didn't really even discuss because we agreed. But that is not what we are highlighting. The Corona situation has put us all in this position. I'm a hunter, and there's a big difference between shooting at a stagnant target and a moving target. Right now, we're in pursuit of the moving target. It is more difficult, and it requires a certain touch and that you are prepared to mate over time. This is what we try to signal with the exercise: The more you can do at a distance, the fewer you meet each other and the more you can get further in your training. This is the signal that we want to send once again, because we are moving towards a moving target: a disease that we do not fully control. On the matter at hand, we are very much in agreement, and I think that is what the audience is hearing. We have called for approval of the proposal itself, and we highlight the need for more distance because it is a moving matter and a situation that we have not experienced before. I respect the decisions that have been made. I would like to point out that I believe that the government is almost a little softer than the Social Democrats in Parliament, because here too the Minister signals that Europe needs to see what can be done. I feel that there is a positive signal, but we still stand by our motion.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-176	Madam President, I would like There's a lot going on right now. I can draw a parallel to one of my children, who is a senior in high school precisely in vocational education. A great deal has been replaced by distance learning. I believe that this will have repercussions in many ways, but there are elements in vocational training that cannot be done remotely. It is about safety, about physical training and about knowing what to do in a particular situation in order to maintain safety, prevent accidents and manage a possible accident. Everything can't be replaced, but there's a lot going on. We've already opened up for distance learning, so there'll be some cake on the cake here. It still feels good to hear from Magnus Jacobsson and the Christian Democrats that on the whole we agree. Let us continue to follow this issue, because it is incredibly important. So do we Social Democrats.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-179	Madam President, I would like Here we have to swing between different subject areas, and now we are talking about the labour market. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the joint reservation of Moderates and Christian Democrats for time to come 2. Much of the focus of Parliament and society has, of course, been on minimising the harmful effects of covid-19. In the meantime, it should be remembered that all the problems that characterized Sweden prior to the coronapandemia, particularly in terms of high unemployment and low growth, have in no way disappeared, but still exist and, moreover, have become much worse. In order to improve integration and young people's opportunities and to ensure that more people can go from contributions to work, the Moderates and Christian Democrats, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, proposed a simplified form of employment – entry jobs – that would be introduced for new arrivals and young people up to 23 years without a high school degree. The salary would amount to 70 per cent of the current collective wage in the industry up to a ceiling of SEK 21,000 in gross salary. 30% of working time would be spent on learning work at work or on education. The Moderates and Christian Democrats in government had preferred entry jobs, which we believe is a better construction. At the same time, we believe that the agreement reached by the parties on the establishment of jobs, which is now a proposal on the table of the Riksdag, is worth examining, but with careful monitoring and control. Madam President, I would like Start-up jobs represent a completely new model for the state in terms of stimulating employment. The structure differs from existing subsidised employment in that the subsidy is paid directly to the individual instead of the employer paying the employee the full salary and then receiving compensation for part of the salary from the state. We believe it is essential that a model in which the State pays out the subsidised part directly to the employee does not open up to fraud. We share the concerns of the Association of Swedish Crime Prevention and Trade Unions that start-up jobs can be used as a paper construction, and that the salary paid from the employer to the employee is returned. It is true that the government has now tried in part to meet the need for control. In our opinion, however, the Public Employment Service should be given clearer powers to act as a control function in the design system. We also believe that a follow-up of the start-up jobs will be crucial, because the effort represents a completely new model for stimulating employment and that, as I have already mentioned, the government should create a clear audit function to curb cheating and abuse, but also must continuously examine whether the start-up jobs are an effective labour market policy measure.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-187	Madam President, I would like After some time of work from home it is nice for me to see Stockholm again and colleagues from the committee and the cabinet. Video and telephone conferences in all honour, but seeing the people you talk to in reality has an advantage. This report is special because it actually contains two parts. One of them deals with an important part of us, which includes the control function of labour market measures, which we support in substance. We welcome, of course, all the proposals that go for a sharper control of labour market policy activities, all to tackle fraud with resources to go to welfare. We believe that this issue deserves to be dealt with in a separate proposal, which we also clarify in our reservation. The second part concerns the new form of employment of establishment. Subsidised jobs such as labour market measures may work in some cases, and there are absolutely studies showing. However, we believe that they have a limited impact as a measure on today's Swedish more service-focused labour market. There is a fact, and no matter what the name of a bet is, the outcome will be the same. I'd like to be disproved. Maybe we're wrong, but probably not. Part of our committee visited Australia in February to study their labour market policies, much because the January parties in their reform work use Australia as a model. It was in many ways a rewarding journey, not least to see how they have built up their matching in the labour market. They work with private actors, which we are opposed to in our reform. There are, of course, major differences between Sweden and Australia in general, not least linked to migration policy. As migration is linked to integration, and integration is linked to labour market policies aimed at new arrivals, it is also highly relevant in this case. Australia received 18 750 quota refugees last year through UNHCR, which would correspond to less than 5 000 quota refugees for Sweden based on population. They have severely limited the number of asylum seekers, and few are allowed to stay in the country if they do not come through the UNHCR. On the other hand, they take in a very large proportion of migrant workers whom they carefully select according to their skills and requirements profile. Coming to Australia as a labour immigrant places high demands on self-sufficiency and fair goal, which means staying if you contribute to society. It's not easy to get into Australia. I think we all understood that; it was very clear. After discussions with, among others, the Department of Home Affairs, which deals with issues related to immigration and integration, it turned out that it was difficult even for them to get new arrivals to work. About 50 percent of the refugees get a job after five years in Australia. It is in itself much better than our outcome. But they also receive considerably fewer than we do, which is a large part of the explanation. Another interesting aspect is that Australia, according to the People Plus organization, spends 20 percent of what Sweden, according to the OECD, spends on the labour market and then with a significantly better result than Sweden. Now I guess not many in this House see Australia as an example when it comes to their migration policy, even if I do. However, it is important to understand that their unemployment and growth are due to something. And there I am convinced that migration and integration are a crucial factor. When we met another organisation – MAX Solutions – which is working to create jobs for immigrants and the long-term unemployed, they said that they avoid working with subsidised measures. I asked why, and they made it clear that it does not have the effect that they are asking for. In some cases they can use the tool to get a job on their CV. But they do not think it is profitable in the long run. On the Swedish labour market, we seem to be incredibly busy continuing to spend tax money on almost ineffective labour market measures. The difference here is that it is easier to be generous with tax money than if you are a private company that has to survive in the market and therefore choose to work with the most profitable measures. At least that could be an explanation. Today's industry's political editor PM Nilsson compiled a summary of these ineffective measures that I choose to use to exemplify the issue. In 1996, work placements came with six months of subsidised trainees. It did not significantly increase employability. In 1998, employment support was received. This meant subsidies of 50% of salary over a year. It gave an evasive effect and lowered the chances of real jobs. In 2000 came the job coaches who increased the chances of real jobs by 2%. In 2007, the entry-level jobs involved 80 per cent of the salary subsidy. It increased the chances of real jobs by 7%. In 2009, new start-up offices were created to increase the motivation for self-employment. They had no effect. In 2010, paid start-ups arrived. It was a bonus system to get new arrivals to work. They had no effect. On the other hand, they created incentives for fraud. In 2014, the trainee jobs came. Prime Minister Löfven was going to create 30,000 new jobs. It was emergency work and wage subsidies that were the medicine, and they gave more than 100 jobs. The common thread through these efforts is to try to cure a broken arm with plasters and painkillers, to use a metaphor. On the other hand, I can understand that we are continuing to do so, because we must show that we are at least trying to solve the problems of an irresponsible immigration policy. We believe that a rescheduling of Swedish migration policy linked to integration policy is necessary to overcome the problems we have today. 75 per cent of those enrolled in the Employment Service were long-term unemployed, and that was before the Corona crisis. What, then, will it look like after the Corona crisis? That's a good question. Matching the labour force with the labour market is difficult. Why is that? Is it because we are not making enough demands on the unemployed? Is it because people have fallen into benefit dependency? Or is it about the attitudes of those who are looking for a job, or is it because those who are looking for a job do not know the language or do not have an education or is it because of something else? Yeah, maybe it is. These are important issues, and we all have our explanations for them. However, I do not think that anyone sits here and has the answers to all the questions. In the 1990s, Prime Minister Carl Bildt appointed an expert commission to analyse the economic crisis that was going on at the time and to propose measures. The aim was to analyse and propose guidelines for future policy formulation in the light of the problems in the Swedish economy. Sweden was already on a sloping level before the Corona crisis when it comes to the labour market, and the government, like previous initiatives, should appoint an expert commission to analyse the problems of integration policy and propose future solutions. However, such a Commission must be designed so that it does not have to take into account ideological beliefs or previous political positions – or prestige, for that matter. Instead, it should be based on science and proven experience. We propose this in our committee motion. I have mentioned this committee motion in the House before, but, as is usually said, the stick wins. Madam President, I would like With this justification, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-213	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a serious pandemic, a crisis that affects us all. Ultimately, it is about people's lives and health, and there are many of us who are concerned about our loved ones. However, we are also in the midst of a serious economic crisis. Bankruptcy, notice and layoffs are dramatically increasing as a consequence of the measures to reduce the spread of covid-19. Entrepreneurs today see their life's work disappear. People are concerned about their livelihood and concern that they may no longer be allowed to remain in a work community in which they thrive. There is also a group of people about whom we talk less about in the crisis, namely those who, even before the outbreak of covid-19, had difficulty in establishing themselves and gaining hold on the labour market. A new report from the Entrepreneurship Forum shows that a majority of people born abroad in working age during the period 1990–2016 have not achieved self-sufficiency in Sweden. It is serious and fortifies the image of the great alienation that exists in our country. It fortifies the image that many people have not become part of the community. Too many children grow up without ever seeing their parents go to work. They grow up with the feeling that it may not even be worth trying. In fact, the proposal we are debating here today is the only proposal from the government aimed at reducing labour costs for entrepreneurs so that more people can enter the labour market. Establishment jobs are a new model for the state to stimulate employment for newly arrived and long-term unemployed. The model differs from ordinary subsidised employment because the State in this model pays a remuneration directly to the person, instead of the employer paying the employee the full salary and then receiving compensation for part of the salary from the state. The State compensation is intended to compensate the employee for receiving a lower salary from the employer for the work performed compared to a normal employment. The model therefore means that the individual receives his or her income from two sides, the employer and the state. However, the entire income shall be regarded as a salary according to this model. It may be dismissed as a spinal reflex when an opposition politician says, "To little and too late!" But in this case, it's a bit like that. The social partners have been agreeing on this model for years and nothing has happened, and we can see that, despite the boom, we were unable to get more people to work. Is this a good model? I do not know, but I can see that for the state this is an expensive labour market policy measure. However, that is the one and no one else we have to take a position on. The Christian Democrats would have preferred a simplified form of employment – entry jobs – to be introduced. We believe that this would have been a better solution for improving integration and young people's opportunities and for ensuring that more people can move from grants to work. The salary would then amount to 70 per cent of the current collective wage in the industry, up to a ceiling of SEK 21,000 in gross salary per month. 30% of working time is then considered to go to learning the job at work. The parties to the Swedish labour market have, however, agreed on the labour market reform of start-up jobs, and the Government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has chosen to support the parties' proposals. Now it is after a long process at Parliament's table. We would, of course, have preferred our construction of entry jobs, Madam President, but we believe that exclusion is too large and too serious for us to say no to this only proposal that exists. Of course, we will closely monitor the implementation and results of the form of employment. For example, it is essential that a new structure, in which the State pays out the subsidised part directly to the employee, does not open up to fraud. Should the start-up jobs not prove to work in practice, we will continue to push for the introduction of entry jobs, which we consider to be a fundamentally better construction. Madam President, I would like I would like to support reservation 2, because we believe that there is a need for more systematic follow-up and monitoring of the reform. It is a special structure and, as the form of employment is completely new, it is important to continuously examine the start-up jobs in order to see whether it is an effective labour market policy measure. Finally, we can only conclude that high entry wages have made it difficult for new arrivals to establish themselves and get jobs in Sweden. The recession caused by the covid-19 outbreak risks exacerbating and cementing exclusion for a great many. Let us hope that this reform will be a step in the right direction, so that more people can contribute to our common good.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-224	Madam President, I would like Even before the pandemic hit hard on our working life, we had major challenges in the Swedish labour market. Although we have had a strong business cycle, many have been out of work, while many companies say that they find it difficult to fill their vacancies and find the right people for them. Even when the acute crisis is over, we will have a shortage in several professions. Those who, even before the crisis, found it difficult to find a job will find it even more difficult to enter the labour market at a time of high unemployment. They will have to compete with groups that are normally closer to the labour market and to a greater extent have skills that are demanded by employers. To cope with the match and get more people to work, more, and perhaps other, measures are needed. The social partners have also seen and done what the parties usually do, namely sit down and negotiate. But they have not negotiated solely to tackle the problems of matching and because many find it difficult to establish themselves in the labour market; they have also negotiated because they had another common interest which is also fundamental to the Swedish model in the labour market: They wanted to prevent political intervention and retain power over wage formation. The proposal that existed and, to some extent, is still being advocated by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, as we have heard in this debate, namely entry jobs, has a structure that involves policy interfering in wage formation and risks dramatically damaging our labour market model and putting downward pressure on the wages of large groups that already have low wages. In November 2017, LO, the Union and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise signed a principle agreement on start-up jobs – a subsidised employment that can be combined with training and where the employee receives half the salary from the employer and a compensation from the state so that the salary is in line with the collective agreements. It then addressed its joint proposal to the Government, and in March 2018, a letter of intent was signed between the Government and the parties to establish a job. The preconditions have now been clarified, and the legislative changes needed to create start-up jobs are in the proposal we are debating today. The precise design of the start-up jobs will be regulated by a regulation. In the bill, Madam President, there are proposals for legislative changes that will enable those who have an establishment job to receive salary from both the state and the employer, while at the same time providing the basis for entitlement to sickness benefit, pension and unemployment insurance. The bill also contains a number of legislative changes to stop cheating on subsidised employment. For example, we want to give Arbetsförmedlingen the right to request information from banks and insurance companies to check that salary has actually been paid and that the individual has insurance cover. The Government also wants Arbetsförmedlingen to have better opportunities to process personal data and thereby strengthen the possibility of detecting grant offences and other forms of inaccuracies in individual cases. It is crucial that control works and that all opportunities to abuse our common systems are removed. The funds allocated by the state to labour market policy measures should really go to things that help people to work. The funds must not end up in the pockets of cheaters and criminals. This is also important in order to maintain people's confidence in the efficient and efficient use of tax funds. Madam President, I would like We have large groups in the labour market who are outside because they do not have the knowledge and skills that employers demand. The start-up jobs came about as the parties' solution to how we can get more of those who lack the right skills to get into work. Training and employment support are things that have previously proved to be good ways in, and start-up jobs combine these in order for more new arrivals and the long-term unemployed to get into work. At the same time, it should be able to lead to a permanent contract of employment. Establishment jobs are designed to equip workers to have a lasting establishment and a stronger place on the labour market. The model also includes a control function in addition to those that already exist and amplified with this proposal. A Joint Board shall be responsible for ensuring that the form of employment is not abused. It is important that start-up jobs are in place when the worst crisis is over, and we hope that this reform will improve both the establishment of the labour market and the provision of skills for employers. But, of course, we need to closely monitor this new subsidy and its development, as well as continuously evaluate and control the system so that it is not misused. For us Social Democrats, it is important that we manage to improve establishment without creating new problems, such as lower productivity or wage pressure. The Swedish model is based on strong and responsible social partners. The Parties are responsible for regulating salaries and conditions. The fact that the parties have jointly taken the initiative for start-up jobs shows the strength of the Swedish model. The OECD report Negotiating O from W ay U p 2019 suggests that our type of model in the labour market, with a high degree of organisation and high level of coverage of collective agreements, is associated with higher employment, lower unemployment, better inclusion and less inequality, but also higher productivity. It also provides companies with better opportunities to compete on equal terms. The collective agreement model has created wage development and work peace in Sweden for a long time. We Social Democrats defend the Swedish model in the labour market, and fundamental is that the parties decide, through negotiations, wages and conditions, not politics. Establishment jobs meet both the needs that employers see – a system that is easy to administer and that contributes to the supply of skills – and the needs that trade unions see, namely that it can contribute to the sustainable establishment of the labour market. By both employers and trade unions joining in on a solution, we will have a much better condition for its success and for it to respond to real needs in the labour market. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-241	Madam President, I would like Even those of us who have the opportunity to enjoy the sunshine, which not everyone in this House has, or perhaps in some cases of lay-off – many are laid-off and take the opportunity to sort a storeroom or paint a wooden deck – are probably feeling at the moment the merciless icy winds of the crisis. Corona affects people in our vicinity, in some cases medically but also financially. For a lot of people, it's merciless. This is a storm, a natural disaster, without its like in modern Swedish economic history, which is now moving over the labour market. Despite our most powerful rescue packages, credits, huge subsidies, extensive temporary tax cuts and about one million layoffs, that is, measures that have undoubtedly dampened the unemployment crisis, hundreds of jobs are lost every day. Unemployment is rising inexorably at the moment. The forecasts point to mass unemployment – unfortunately, it is the right word – over 10%. Many tens of thousands of people will have their lives destroyed. They run the risk of social misery. The problem, as some other speakers have pointed out, is that the labour market situation in Sweden was very serious even before the crisis struck. There was a division of people who were very far away from work. The important thing is, however, that it is not hopeless There is a way back. There are measures that allow jobs to come back faster and rather than if we do not act. For the sake of the unemployed, I would like, and I am sure everyone else here, to thank every small businessman in this country who today, in a month or six months' time, is defying the crisis and hiring another person. There'll be a person who gets to get out of the crisis and get back in the heat. It is then our absolute duty to understand how valuable every job created is. It is our absolute duty to let go of our old rhetoric, whether it be class struggle rhetoric, the habit of pointing the finger at any particular group or just an old tired defence of regulations that have long since survived its purpose. We have so much else that we have to regulate in the crisis in order to get on with it. It is our duty to focus all our energy on the crisis and on everything that can benefit, strengthen and underpin job creation in our country with jobs, re-employment and new jobs. Such a proposal is now being put on the table of the Riksdag. It is one of many pieces of the puzzle to make recovery possible step by step. The proposal is about strengthening the control and transparency of the many – still far too many – different types of support for employment that we have in this country. It provides a solid basis on which new wise proposals can be even more stable. I would say that it responds to the points made by several speakers today, namely the need for transparency and control. The proposal is also about paving the way for this new possibility of employment for the vulnerable in the labour market at a lower initial wage cost, i.e. the start-up jobs, which the social partners have presented. This is a very important opportunity, if not at the first stage of recovery. However, it is important shortly after that when we shall return to the many who were unemployed even before the crisis began. This isn't a perfect construction. It is no secret that I and my party advocated a new form of employment, which would effectively create a more direct bridge into the labour market for the most vulnerable. In a pragmatic spirit, however, we have taken on board the parties' proposals. This will be extended to two groups of companies that are normally crucial to job creation in our country and can become so again. These are now extremely hard hit by the crisis. This applies, on the one hand, to non-collective small enterprises and, on the other hand, to temporary agencies. Today, however, we are not debating precisely this, but, first and foremost, a more solid basis for all future efforts to facilitate the kind of job created. When the terrible storm has come to an end and when the Swedish economy is beginning to sense a light, this piece of the puzzle will be crucial for us to bring the recovery together. I therefore hope that everyone in this House is prepared to focus on job creation and to lay this foundation for both start-ups and a more informed labour market policy.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-252	Madam President, I would like This case actually has two parts. These are legislative changes to enable so-called start-up jobs and control in labour market policy activities. I am going to say something about both of these issues. The creation jobs are unfortunately one of many examples of how the January constellation manages to create problems where others seek and find solutions. The creation jobs are basically a very good idea, which my comrade from the Social Democrats has also explained well. The social partners, trade unions and employers, have taken on a great deal of responsibility and reached an agreement in principle, a flexible structure that provides for tripartite cooperation. The government's going in with some money. The parties make it easier for people facing structural problems to enter the labour market, in this case new arrivals and the long-term unemployed, to enter. The individual receives a salary from the employer and, at the same time, an individual subsidy in the form of a remuneration included in the salary. All in all, this makes it a worthy income for the worker, while making it more difficult for fraud and wage dumping. Rather, wage dumping seems to have been a central point with the types of constructions previously presented by the bourgeois parties. The principle agreement was signed in spring 2018. Then began work with the government to find a practical solution. But then came the elections and then the unfortunate January agreement. There, the Centre Party and the Liberals, two parties whose strong contempt for organised workers is matched by an equally prominent lack of understanding of the functioning of the labour market, have demanded that companies without collective agreements should also be included in the future construction. This is a bit amusing, given that the whole structure that has given birth to this solution is based on the fact that organised parties agree on collective agreements. In addition, there has been a call for temporary work agencies to be included, which is also strange, partly because it is bad to reward such developments in the labour market and partly because it introduces an additional party in a situation where several parties are already involved. Unfortunately, this is quite typical of the situation we have ended up in, with the Centre Party and Liberals poking and hooting around labour market policy. We also see examples of this when it comes to the management of the Employment Service and the discussion on labour law. The Left Party has stated that the creation of jobs should be introduced in accordance with the agreement in principle between the parties. That is why we rejected, for example, the estimates that were included around this in the Government's budget bill. It remains to be seen how the subsidies envisaged will be used in different sectors in relation to the conditions laid down by collective agreements in those sectors. This uncertainty also places particular demands on future follow-up and evaluation. But given that the basic structure itself is good and that it is urgent that the measures are put in place, especially when we know that unemployment is now increasing dramatically, we agree with the proposals put forward by the government in the present proposal, which are about creating legal conditions for the introduction of start-up jobs. Madam President, I would like The second issue in this report, as I said earlier, concerns control in labour market policy activities. The Government proposes that credit institutions and insurers should be obliged to provide certain information to the Employment Service. That's good. We on the Left side also support this proposal. What is regrettable here is that the problems with employers who make use of labour market support are extensive, serious and well-known. Yet there is such slowness in the government and support parties. You trip around the problem complex. I think that says something more general about priorities and power relations in our society. For decades, there has been a strong tendency to express great concern about people over-exploiting or cheating with various types of social insurance benefits and support schemes. There have been many troubled debates. It's been investigated. Delegations have been set up. At the same time, these systems have been eroded in relation to wage developments in society. An increasingly rigorous control regime has nevertheless emerged around these rights. But when it comes to employers and better social strata in society, it is quite often a slowness and a tripping when it comes to over-exploitation and sometimes systematic crime with taxes, subsidies, deductions, subsidies and so on. Class membership is extenuating circumstance, to quote the important Western Swedish political epic Bängen trawls. Unfortunately, the billion-dollar roll that is taking place during the current Corona crisis risks strengthening rather than breaking with this overall picture, although there too some good efforts are being made to combat cheating and exploitation. But I am going back to the current dossier and the issue of labour market support. The Left Party sees a great value in many of these subsidies and subsidies to bring more people into the labour market. At the same time, we have repeatedly highlighted the problems of cheating and exploitation, not least because we listen to those closest to reality, namely the trade unions. The proposals we have should not really be the least controversial. Some of them are also mentioned in our specific opinion in the report. Employers who employ subsidized staff shall be obliged to issue a certificate of service at the end of their employment. We propose a survey of wages and working conditions, differentiated by industry and foreign background, when subsidised employment is involved. We believe it should be self-evident that the Employment Service consults with trade unions and places great emphasis on their opinions, as they often have knowledge of how the employer has acted against former employees. These are very reasonable things to agree on, one might think, but they are proposals that have been rejected by the other parties on several occasions. It is regrettable, but we will continue to put forward these and other proposals to adapt policy to the needs of reality.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-265	Madam President, I would like Today we have to deal with a very important proposal which contains the necessary legislative amendments on control functions, as has been pointed out by many other speakers before me, and which will lay the foundations for the introduction of start-up jobs. Establishment jobs are a new model of subsidised employment aimed at the long-term unemployed and newly arrived people. This model differs from other forms of employment in that the state subsidises employment by paying a certain part of the remuneration directly to the individual. The second part of the salary will be paid by the employer but will be a little lower. This means that an individual who receives an establishment job will in future receive two salaries – from the state and from the employer. Madam President, I would like It has been mentioned in the debate that the creation of jobs could become a reality thanks to the handshake of the parties during the last parliamentary term. It is very welcome and important that the social partners take responsibility for creating more easy ways into the Swedish labour market. But what the representative of the Social Democrats forgot to mention in his speech is that in this reform, which has been negotiated with us, which has given you four more years in power, we also agree that the start-up jobs should be broadened to two additional actors, i.e. companies without collective agreements and the skills companies. In this context, I would like to mention why it is so important for the skills companies to have access to these jobs. It is an actor who has managed very well in recent years to ensure that doors and opportunities are opened for not least foreign-born and newcomers to come to work. It is therefore very important for both the Liberals and the Center Party that the points of the January Agreement be kept and that the new players be enabled to take part in this reform. Madam President, I would like As I said, this reform is very important for many reasons. Despite the fact that for many years we have had strong economic development in the Swedish labour market and unemployment has been almost non-existent in some groups, horribly many people have not had the chance to get to work. It is a reality that is neither beautiful nor can be described in positive terms. For being able to work is more than just getting a salary. To be able to contribute and feel needed creates a self-realization and a community. It gives people a purpose. But it gives women, above all, independence and the opportunity to stand on their own feet and not have to depend on someone else's wallet. That is the key to community, I would say, cohesion and an important way into society. But it is above all a cure for exclusion and involuntary loneliness. It is something that we look awfully large during the Corona crisis. It is important to point out why this type of job reform is important. It gives many keys to the labour market. Above all, however, it helps us to deal with the two-way labour market and to ensure that we have a labour market that is open to all people who can work and contribute in our country. Madam President, I would like If the problems in the labour market were great before the Corona crisis, I should like to say with determination that we have very big problems today. In just two months, over 110 000 people have lost their jobs. All forecasts indicate that unemployment statistics will increase by rocket speed up once we have made it through the crisis. It requires that we, from the political side, gather together and do everything we can to prevent more people from being sucked into the bad spiral of exclusion. We have shown so far that we can jointly take responsibility for Sweden and the crisis that we are experiencing right now. We have, not least, been able to demonstrate this by being able to deliver six emergency packages in this House which have been priceless and so important to ensure that no more people are left out of work and left out. This means that we will have to change our labour market policy. More changes in labour law are in the process of being implemented so that we can have a more flexible labour market. We will definitely need to review our security systems and strengthen them in order to include all workers and all self-employed people who pay taxes into our common security systems. This crisis has really exposed how weak the security systems are. They leave people wind by wave and with fear of not being able to pay bills next month. When we have such weak systems and so obvious problems with our security systems, we have to take a serious thought from the political side if the unemployment fund is not to become general and cover everyone who works in Sweden. It's a very important message. Without secure transition opportunities for the individual, we will also not be able to claim with credibility that the structural change that is taking place in the Swedish labour market can be done in a good way. Therefore, several different components are needed. We will also have to create a number of easy ways in for jobs without entry requirements so that both those outside get a chance to get into work and all those who will now become unemployed can quickly re-train and become matchable for new jobs. Madam President, I would like In this context, start-ups will play a very important role in enabling more people to get to work. It won't be a miracle solution. There will be no cure for all the problems that exist. The start-up jobs are also unlikely to contribute to the creation of a job for all those who are out of work. But start-up jobs are an important component. We have major problems with matching in the Swedish labour market and employers' needs to get the right skills. This also needs to be addressed in the future. In particular, the supply of skills is important to improve in order for Sweden to remain competitive in the future. For this to happen, employers need to be given the right conditions. All unemployed people who are currently knocking on the door of the labour market must be given the opportunity to get into work and acquire the necessary skills and experience that will be needed in the labour market in the future. Madam President, I would like It is against this background, in conclusion, that today's subject is so extremely important. This bill is about laying the foundations for a number of legislative changes. We shall ensure that once we have the legislative changes in place, we also have effective control systems so that the reform will not be misused in the future. We will need to take the next step and come back here and announce how we proceed to implement the actual establishment reform. It is a very important first step that we are now taking. With this, I would like to call for the proposal to be approved.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-284	Madam President, I would like What we are talking about here today is quite technical. It is about what legislative changes are needed in order for the start-up jobs to be introduced. What it really is about is creating security for the reform to work as well as possible. It is very important for all the people we hope will be able to take part of it. Establishment jobs will be aimed at newcomers and the long-term unemployed. It is about people who find it harder than others to make their way in today's labour market. A person who is not yet able to speak Swedish so well and lacks experience in Sweden has more difficulty than others to get a job. Those who have long been unemployed without being able to get a job often struggle in the headwind. It is about creating better conditions for those people to get a job. For some, this will lead to an open-ended contract of employment. For others, it will be an important step along the way and an opportunity to get an up-to-date reference, get co-workers and contacts. Madam President, I would like The construction of the planned start-up jobs is new. A person employed at a lower salary level receives a supplementary salary component directly from the State. It's clear and simple, which is good. At the same time, of course, it is very important that the system is not abused and that individuals are protected from various pressures. The government's proposals are designed to prevent abuse and protect individuals. Madam President, I would like The creation jobs as an idea have been developed by the parties, and it is very valuable. The proposals have been prepared by those who have both extensive experience and competence in the issues. They have a solid knowledge of the needs, obstacles and wishes of both employers and employees. The fact that it is the parties who have drawn up the proposal also means that there is a broad knowledge of the start-up jobs that will certainly make them more widely used. Ultimately, this is all about integration. The Government's objective for integration policy is equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all regardless of ethnic and cultural background. I see the start-up jobs as a good piece of the puzzle in this. In this connection, I would also like to remind you of another important objective that the government has in relation to this. This concerns the objective of gender equality policy. Women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. These include, for example, who is invited to an interview or who is offered input. This can be about what the administrator at Arbetsförmedlingen does or does not do. The worst is, of course, the consequences, direct or indirect, of discrimination for the individual in the form of a dwindling self-confidence and increased frustration. It is hardly surprising if one is faced with constant obstacles instead of support, hope and equal opportunities. For Miljöpartiet is the top priority that we create a sustainable society in the long term. It must be socially sustainable and sustainable for the environment and climate. It goes hand in hand, and one assumes the other. By reducing inequality, we also improve public health. The most common cause of sick leave is stress-related conditions. We can't keep doing that. All steps towards reduced segregation, improved integration and greater equality are important steps. Finally, I would like to remind you how important it is to look at people's conditions. It is the task of politics to give people the opportunity to become part of society. This is such a step. The fact that the proposal also comes from the parties makes us feel safe with the basic construction. We believe that the start-up jobs will make an important contribution to integration. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-294	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report on a number of issues relating to rehabilitation and care allowances. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the proposal for a decision by a unanimous committee. So this report and this debate deal with two different issues. The first question concerns a change in the Social Security Code, which will enable persons carrying out work-oriented rehabilitation to retain the rehabilitation allowance for a shorter period of illness. It is a good change that reinforces the individual's possibility of rehabilitation without losing his financial security The second issue is the extension of transitional rules from health care allowance to nursing allowance and additional costs – an issue I wanted to dwell on a little longer. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats have worked in government in various ways to restore strong society. We have strengthened the contribution to welfare, and we are putting investment in quality, more staff and better conditions before major tax cuts. While we are standing in this Chamber, perhaps the greatest crisis we have ever experienced and will experience is the coronapndemin. Our view is that this crisis is the best that we face together. We will protect our elderly, and we will protect people at risk. We're gonna get through medical care and care, and we're gonna get the jobs. This is why the government has strengthened its efforts on welfare by over 25 billion this year. We have made changes that have abolished withdrawals and sickness certificates, and we have strengthened the housing allowance. We put the welfare and security of ordinary people at the centre – in ordinary times and in times of crisis. An important cornerstone of our community building is strong and well-functioning social security. The proposal to extend the transitional rules from the care allowance to the care allowance and the additional cost reimbursement is that we do not want to see people who are entitled to support and need the support of society fall between the seats. The changes, decided by the Riksdag in autumn 2018, which are now being implemented, will make the system easier to understand and transparent. The old regulations needed updating. Already when the Riksdag made its decision there was a transition period that gave the opportunity to provide compensation after the old regulations. Now the Government sees a need to extend the transition period, as the processing times at Försäkringskassan are still too long. It is important to point out in this debate that many who are covered by the old system also continue to be entitled to their compensation, as several decisions go far ahead in time or are valid until further notice. These people should not be affected by this. With the proposal we are discussing today, on the extension of the transitional period, the Social Insurance Agency is given the opportunity, under certain conditions, to take a decision on the health care allowance until July 2022. If you are waiting for a decision on the care allowance and additional costs in the new system, you are entitled to compensation from the date you apply. Long processing times shall be without prejudice to the right to financial compensation. Of course, processing times must be reasonable. We agree that processing times must be speeded up. We do not accept that parents and children should have to be concerned when decisions expire and new decisions on benefits are delayed. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are working to strengthen our welfare society. Strong and well-functioning social security is the basis for us. The aim of the changes we are debating today and made is to create a better system. It will be a more equal decision-making that increases equality and equality, which puts children's needs at the centre and is more generous and easier to understand. We welcome the Government's proposal and we will follow developments closely in the future.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-307	Madam President, I would like Help and support, whatever the form, are important in our society for it to work for everyone – even for people with disabilities. Of course, when changes occur, they cause anxiety. The regulatory framework becomes unclear, and you don't really know what's going to happen. The change that has taken place in the remuneration of parents who support, help and care for their disabled children caused concern. This applies to what we are now discussing: the care allowance and the additional reimbursement, which became the care allowance. The new reform would include both care and additional costs. How would that happen? What would the compensation be? Would it apply to a longer or a shorter period of time? Would the focus be on the extra cost or would it be placed on care when decisions would be reconsidered? What would be the most important thing when it became a single system? We in the Center Party said then, when the proposal came, that it would be complicated. We did not want anyone to get caught, but we did not get a hand in order for measures to be taken against this. When a review was to take place, parents would make a completely new application in order to receive care allowance. Of course, it caused a great deal of concern. It has turned out that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has not been able to make decisions in time and get the compensation for the families that need them. So it was just as we feared. Families who have children with Down's syndrome, to take an example among many, and who got the decision when the children were young, then realized that it would last a long time, in many cases until the children were 19 years old. Of course, it would be reported when changes were made to the child's needs, both in order to increase and in order to reduce the benefit. It was also, of course, about changes in the need for care. For many families, the new system became a huge question mark: How would this happen now? All these thorough re-examinations have, as I said, put a very heavy burden on the Social Insurance Agency. As a result, the proceedings have been delayed, and the length of the proceedings has increased. For this reason, it is important that the decisions to be taken mean that the revisions are automatically extended until 1 July 2022 instead of what is currently in force, i.e. 31 December 2020. This has meant that some families are actually unpaid because it has not been reconsidered and because the compensation has been terminated. This is a very good proposal which the Center Party naturally supports. The times we are now in with Corona, Madam President, also make this a burden for families who are already having a difficult time. The second proposal on which we are now going to decide, as we have heard here before, means that people who take part in work-oriented rehabilitation should be allowed to retain their rehabilitation allowance in the event of a short-term illness, i.e. when you are ill up to 30 days. This also applies in many cases to people with disabilities who need precisely work-oriented rehabilitation. Those who participate in this form of support and help to get back to work have some form of illness, or they need help and support in other ways. Today, you must apply for sickness benefit from the first day you are ill when you are part of a work-related rehabilitation. Of course, this would have changed a long time ago! Everyone understands that it doesn't work. But better late than never, when you come up with a proposal. You might think that 30 days is quite a long time without any contact. That is why we in the Center Party really want to make it clear that we need to get help to get back to work. It's incredibly important to everyone. If you take part in work-oriented rehabilitation, it means that you have some form of illness, some form of disability or something else that makes it necessary to get help and support to get back to work. This also requires support when you have work-oriented rehabilitation, just like for everyone else who is ill. It is more important than ever, I would really like to emphasise, that there is support for those people who need help to get back to work. One should have contact with care, something you often need help with. Or the workplace may need to be adapted so that the sickness absence and the cause of it are resolved as soon as possible and preferably not reoccurs. That being so, Madam President, I am in favour of the proposal in this report.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-320	Madam President, I would like When we are at our weakest, our welfare must be at its strongest. In particular, the social security system must be strong in order to reduce financial vulnerability. Today, we are debating social security benefits for rehabilitation and health care. We Christian Democrats are in favour of the government proposing that people taking part in work-oriented rehabilitation should now be able to retain their benefits in the event of short-term illness. In practice, this means that they do not need to apply for sickness benefit. Since the Social Insurance Agency then does not need to change the benefit, the administration is simplified and the risk of late payments is minimised. This is positive for the heavily burdened authority but above all for the individual. Madam President, I would like In the case of families who have been dependent on the care allowance to make life go together, there have recently been huge problems with late payments. Thanks to the care allowance, a parent has had the opportunity to reduce working hours to provide care and supervision to a child with a disability. The origin of the grant was that children with disabilities could live and live at home with their family instead of being cared for in an institution – a wonderful good purpose. The highest level of compensation was just under $1,000 a month, and many parents were granted care allowance when the children were young. Often decisions ran for several years – into adolescence – with a simpler review every two years. The long-term design of the care allowance gave families a breathing space, a financial security and an opportunity to plan to make everyday life go together. Last year, however, the care allowance was removed and replaced by two new forms of grant: nursing allowance and additional costs. All parents who had received the care allowance had to submit a new application to Försäkringskassan in order to receive the new benefits. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the long processing times of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency have resulted in a long gap in payments in the transition to the new reforms. The processing period is over eight months, but across the country there are families who have been waiting for these subsidies for a year or longer. It is easy to understand that this long waiting for money puts enormous pressure on families who already had difficulty making ends meet. Although the grant of a nursing allowance will be paid retroactively, the long processing times are very problematic. Figures produced by Swedish Television show that over 10,000 parents are forced to live without this money during the waiting period. The families affected are often already in a difficult financial situation and lack the buffers needed to last a longer period without these benefits. We Christian Democrats drew attention to the long-term problems and how they had a negative impact on the safety of children and parents during the general period of exercise last autumn. We therefore welcome the fact that the Government proposes in this bill that a healthcare allowance granted should remain valid during the processing period when applying for the new grants. The law will enter into force on 1 July this year. For us Christian Democrats, it was self-evident that all the thousands of families that have been affected by gaps in payments since the reform was introduced on 1 January 2019 would be subject to the amendment of the law. When I read the bill, I also perceived that it was the government's intention. We felt that it would be opening doors to point this out and therefore refrained from following up on the bill. Nor did any other party exercise. However, during the preparatory work in committee, it emerged, Madam President, that the draft law could be interpreted in such a way that only those families who today have health care benefits and will apply for the new form of benefit after 1 July, i.e. after the legislative amendment has entered into force, will be covered. This alternative interpretation would leave the 10 000 families now in the middle of a still vulnerable financial situation. It would be a great betrayal of these families. I therefore took the initiative of giving the responsible minister before the committee the opportunity to confirm and emphasise that the government's intention was exactly the same as the wish of the Christian Democrats, that is, that health benefits that had ended in 2019 and in the spring of 2020 could also be extended during the processing period. I am pleased and grateful that all the parties subsequently understood the problem and supported the Christian Democrats' proposal to indicate in the committee's position that we assume that health benefits that have been discontinued in the past can also be extended according to the new rules. I would therefore like to extend warm thanks to my colleagues in the committee for their good cooperation. Our joint clarification in the report can make a decisive difference for many children and families. So I and the Christian Democrats wholeheartedly support the committee's proposal for a decision. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to mention that the Social Security Inspection has recently examined the introduction of care allowances and additional reimbursement reforms. The inspection came with sharp criticism. Among other things, it was stressed that in future reforms the government needs to ensure that there is sufficient time and resources to enable the Social Insurance Agency to make the necessary preparations. It was also felt that the government should have acted earlier to introduce the amendment of the law we are debating today. We Christian Democrats fully agree with the criticism. We believe that it is unreasonable for individuals, even though they are actually entitled to such benefits, to receive no compensation at all because of lengthy processing. We have therefore exercised in the past that general guidelines and procedures should be developed to ensure that an individual is not financially affected by long processing periods, whether a new application has to be made because benefits change form, as in the case of the care allowance, or whether the individual needs to change benefits due to qualification rules, such as age. This is important for everyone's long-term security.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-334	Madam President, I would like We will now debate a letter from the Government on the outcome of Swedish aid to multilateral organisations in 2017 and 2018. Here are some results described. For example, Gavi, the vaccination alliance, and the Global Fund show positive results in their efforts to prevent malaria, tuberculosis and HIV. There are also encouraging figures on declining maternal mortality. Unfortunately, however, most of the pages in the result letter, which is to describe what result almost 50 billion of Swedish taxpayers' money has led to, are more of a business description than a result letter. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the government have different views on how much money we should spend on international aid. The Swedish budget is not infinite. The political task is to prioritise. The opinion of the Moderates is that we cannot have a policy area that is guided by a payout target when we turn the crowns around in all other areas of expenditure. As a result of the 1% target, the aid budget has tripled in 20 years. Today, we spend almost twice as much money on international aid as on the police. The Moderates give a different priority and want to reduce the aid budget. No other area of expenditure has been allowed to run as the aid has done. Every year large payments are made to the UN system at the end of the year, only to get up to the right amount of money spent on aid. It is not a responsible way of dealing with taxpayers' money. We want aid to be guided by performance targets and not by payment targets. The pandemic that Sweden and the world are now facing has raised the need for well-functioning global coordination. The Corona crisis and its social and economic consequences mean that we have to ask crucial questions about multilaterism and our ability to meet the enormous challenges that the world is now facing. It is therefore important that the multilateral organisations to which Sweden provides assistance work well. As a major contributor to the UN system, Sweden should make even greater demands on and ensure that our interests are protected and that our values have an impact. Sweden's commitment to the UN system must be marked by a clear reform agenda with demands for efficiency, accountability and the fight against corruption. It is of great importance to have good follow-up and procedures to deal with abuses and suspicions of corruption or to ensure that aid funds are not used in such a way that it is counterproductive. It is not enough to pat on your shoulder and spend a lot of money on the UN system. It must also be ensured that the large amounts of money that Sweden spends on aid through multilateral organisations go to the right things and to projects that are actually good. Moderates see a need to reform aid in order to increase its impact. Among other things, we want to provide aid with a different and better model of budgeting: a four-year financial framework instead of today's 1% target. It would provide aid with better planning conditions and give Parliament a better opportunity to set goals and manage aid. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the fact that we have not had sufficient control over how the money we spend on aid has been spent is evidence of too many corruption scandals. One of the organisations where mismanagement has been reported is Unrwa, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees, where large amounts of money have been spent on the management's luxury habits. Despite the organisation's extensive mismanagement – so many countries chose to freeze the aid to the organisation, which Sweden did not do – the government has chosen in this performance letter not to account for Sweden's commitment to Unrwa. Perhaps that is not what they mean, but it is clearly perceived as excluding Unrwa. Given the attention given to Unrwa, it should be in the government's interest to show what results Sweden's commitment and great giving have led to. Since the Government has chosen not to include this in the result letter, we will vote later today that the Riksdag will address an announcement to the Government to return with a result letter for Sweden's engagement in Unrwa. Madam President, I would like The money we spend on aid should go to the most vulnerable people. In a world where the needs are endless, it is important that we ensure that Swedish taxpayers' money goes to aid efforts where it is most useful and where we can see results. This places demands on performance monitoring, transparency and the ability to dare prioritise. Swedish aid cannot do everything. But where Swedish aid works, taxpayers should see the results of their giving. In the wake of the Corona, humanitarian needs in particular will increase. The Moderates have been pushing for a long time to increase humanitarian aid as a proportion of Swedish aid. Although humanitarian aid, or emergency aid as it can also be called, is the core of aid, and what I think most people think about when they think about aid, it is a fairly small part of all aid today. As I said, we want to see an increase in the proportion of aid that goes to humanitarian aid. This is highlighted in a reservation in this report. Madam President, I would like Half of Sweden's very large aid budget is channelled through the UN system. The result letter states in several places that Sweden is one of the largest donors to a number of different organisations. The needs of the world are great. But it is important to realise that Sweden cannot do everything. We simply have to choose something or a few areas that Sweden focuses on in our aid. A more focused aid would increase Sweden's opportunities for specialisation and thus lead to an increased result. A more focused aid would also lead to better control, which, no matter what Minister Eriksson will say, is actually needed. This is shown by the many corruption scandals. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about development. In Agenda 2030, there is a strong focus on growth. One of the sub-goals states that there should be at least 7% growth in the poorest countries and that small-scale agriculture should double its production. These are important objectives that remind us that it is not aid that drives development. It does economic growth and trade. Again, in a world where the needs are endless, it is important that we ensure that Swedish taxpayers' money goes to the aid efforts where they do the most good and where we can see results. But in the long run it is economic growth that creates prosperity. The focus on growth and the goal of moving from aid to trade is therefore very important. Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the Moderates support all our reservations. But for time winning, I only agree to reservation number 2.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-350	Madam President, I would like The question of the management of results in multilateral aid can actually be divided into two parts. One is about what results the organisations actually achieve when the business continues as it should. The second is about the fact that the business does not always do so. Often it is due to corruption but sometimes also to pure crime through criminal networks that infiltrate such organisations. As far as the first question is concerned, I think most of us agree that when the organisations function as they should, they are able, as a rule, to solve their task. When this is not the case, it often depends on external factors. It is, therefore, as a matter of urgency that the latter question is of interest. I would like to make it clear that no one, either in this House or anywhere else, can call themselves a friend of aid unless at every time this kind of scandal is revealed, and is clear that it is totally unacceptable. This government, I think, is far too slow to do so. This perspective and these problems are also somewhat illuminated by their absence in the letter we are discussing. I would therefore like to highlight a few relevant examples. One incident that should receive more attention than it actually received is the recent corruption scandal in several UN authorities in Yemen, including UNICEF and WHO. Based on the information published, it appears that the United Nations authorities have employed unqualified personnel, who have then transferred millions of dollars to their private bank accounts. The organisations have made very suspicious procurements, while medical matter and fuel have disappeared without trace. There are also allegations that UNICEF personnel have borrowed or rented their vehicles to warring parties in the conflict in order to protect them from air strikes, which would be a particularly serious violation of the UN principle of impartiality. In addition, UN personnel who were sent to Yemen to investigate these suspicions received their computers seized by militias at the airport when they were leaving, which may have been directly ordered by local UN personnel. Another organisation that we have discussed in this House on several occasions in the past is Unrwa, the UN special Palestinian Authority. The organisation has been accused in a number of contexts of not complying with its mandate to remain impartial in the conflict in the Middle East and of conducting serious anti-Semitic terror propaganda in its schools and of being deeply corrupt. To illustrate this, I would like to take a few examples from school books that have been purchased for Swedish aid money. In the book Our Beautiful Language for Year 3, 2018 edition, it says on p. 64: I promise that I will sacrifice my blood to water the land of the generous. I will remove the invaders from my country, and I will exterminate the rest of the foreigners. It's a pretty rough language. So remember that these are books that have been financed with our tax money. In the book Arabic Language for Year 5, 2018 edition, is told on p. 52 – 53 The story of Dalal al-al-Mughrabi, which is apparently a known terrorist: After they caused the occupation a large number of wounded and deaths, Dalal brought back Deir Yassin part of its right and watered the land of the Palestinians with its fresh blood. In the book Arabic for Year 8, 2018 edition, it says in the teacher's instruction on p. 148 on how to conduct a lesson: The student should find himself free time to reflect on the greedy ambitions of the Jews. So these are, again, books that have been bought in with Swedish tax money – completely insane! In addition to this type of anti-Semitic propaganda, the organization suffers from endemic corruption. In 2018, it was revealed that Commissioner General Krähenbül has used the organisation's funds to hire his mistress and to finance their leisure trips. A former Vice-President-General managed to hire his husband by cheating on his employment test. There are more examples, but since we have a deadline here, I shall spare the House them. It is clear that there are enormous problems within this organisation, which is probably one reason why the government has chosen to completely omit it in the letter. It is also completely headless that this particular organisation, according to Sida's latest regulatory letter, should be awarded a total of SEK 420 million in one year. It is not incredible that the decisions to give the organisation disproportionately large funds taken by Peter Eriksson over the last few years are linked to the fact that other countries that have actually listened and taken on board the information about the scandals have chosen to reduce their funding. We believe that support for this organisation should be frozen, but if the government nevertheless, against all reason and reason, chooses to continue to support it, we naturally support the idea of the government returning with an account of how the work in Unrwa continues. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 6. Another organization that has marked itself in a particularly frightening way in recent months is the World Health Organisation, WHO. During the current crisis, a number of countries, including the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, Taiwan and others, have expressed strong concern that China's influence over the organisation is undermining its confidence and that its independence and objectivity have been called into question. As is well known, an independent international investigation is underway into the WHO's management of covid-19 and the influence of the Chinese regime on the organisation, and Sweden should do what we can to support such a review. Experts believe that the WHO's actions may have cost countless lives, and the criticism focuses on a number of concrete examples where the organisation's actions look suspicious, to say the least. For example, in December 2019 the WHO ignored credible reports on the spread of the virus in Wuhan, probably because the reports contradicted the Chinese regime's own information that the virus was under control at that time. At the end of December, the Taiwanese authorities provided very credible information to the WHO indicating the spread of the virus from man to man. However, this information was never passed on by the WHO, again probably not to contradict the Chinese regime. On 14 January 2020, the WHO reaffirmed China's claim that the virus did not spread between humans, although it was informed that the opposite might be the case. On 28 January 2020, the WHO hailed the Chinese regime for its transparency in dealing with the Corona virus and claimed that China has shown a new standard for how countries should deal with similar outbreaks in the future, and that, thanks to China's management, the world now had better opportunities to manage the virus – this despite the fact that China was at this point in time muzzling and punishing doctors and scientists who dared to speak out about the virus. On 3 March 2020, the WHO quoted completely uncritical information from Chinese authorities that downplayed the threat of asymptomatic virus proliferation. The WHO claimed that covid-19 does not transmit as easily as flu, which we very likely do not know is true, and that covid-19, unlike influenza, is not primarily spread by people who do not show symptoms, something that neither WHO nor anyone else knows for sure yet. The WHO's comments and evaluations concerning the management of the crisis by different countries also raise some questions. For example, the WHO praised China's response to the crisis, including its decision to close a number of its internal borders, while criticising the US decision to close its borders to travellers from China. These are two positions that logically do not make sense. The reason why the WHO acts in this way is very likely to be the victim of China's increasingly aggressive diplomacy. For example, President Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus himself has strong links with China. He has a background in a Marxist-Leninist terrorist group that largely shares Beijing's political ideology. He was formerly Ethiopia's Foreign Minister during a period when the country had increased trade with China and when China made huge investments in Ethiopia. He has also appointed China's President Xi Jinping's wife as one of the WHO's goodwill ambassadors, which is a somewhat interesting decision. The history of WHO, China and covid-19 is something that I assume we will talk more about in this House in the future, but at the moment I think we can only say that it is another organisation that is in urgent need of scrutiny. Madam President, I would like The objective of more Swedes in leading positions in multilateral organisations is not, I believe, an end in themselves but a tool to address the very kind of problem that I highlight in my speech. The greater the impact of our approach to order in financial accounting and the importance of regulatory compliance and impartiality in conflicts and our comparatively low tolerance for corruption, the better these organisations will function. It is also clear that we and other donors must allow cases of corruption, bias and ally with dictatorships to influence the financing of multilateral aid. If it were to turn out that the suspicions currently being levelled at, for example, the WHO would be correct and that organisation is not carrying out radical reforms in the near future, we simply cannot continue to fund it as we have done. I would also like to see this type of problem, which basically risks undermining public confidence in the entire UN system, taking more place in this type of letter.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-379	Madam President, I would like This is not a debate on the aid budget itself, so I am not going to enter into a discussion on percentages, but this is about Parliament's ability to examine multilateral aid. This is the second letter of results presented by the government on the basis of the announcement made once by Parliament that we wanted opportunities to follow up multilateral aid. The reason is clear: multilateral aid has increased and is constantly increasing. 58% of the aid budget went to multilateral structures. If we are to have the opportunity to follow up and evaluate, we need to get a good account of the result. For my part, I have quickly tried to look through the previous result letter, the first one, that came in 2018. It presented three themes for multilateral development cooperation. The current result letter presents four – but quite different – areas. It therefore chooses not to follow up the same areas and not the entire letter, but to choose from the government's side a partial report, which means that comparability is not so simple. In the 2018 Government's report, we had the opportunity to monitor the development, because it also reported the aid decided in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Now it is just an empty account of the aid that has been granted. It was 53 out of 200 organisations that received support according to the accounting we received in 2018, and it is 53 organisations that are now receiving support according to the accounting that we now have at Parliament's table. As far as we are concerned, it is interesting to see what considerations the government has made on the basis of the multilateral approach adopted by the government as a basis for support. It is said that Swedish engagement will focus on those organisations that are most relevant to Sweden's international development and development policy objectives, as well as for humanitarian aid and the best ability to contribute to results. Priority organisations may vary over time and policy priorities and needs may change. An assessment shall be made on the basis of four principles:
i-64a6490e68af15a3-388	中 relevant but low efficiency, equal to reduced long-term support and possible phasing-out
i-64a6490e68af15a3-390	From this point of view, I seek answers in the government's record of results. How has the government judged the relevance and effectiveness of the various organisations? Have you achieved better or worse results? There, the government will be guilty of the answer. Based on the strategies adopted by the Government, the policy framework referred to by the Government and the performance report that the Government is now putting on Parliament's table, it is not possible to identify the priorities and balances that the Government has made with regard to results, effectiveness and how they are consistent with the political priorities that we have. We can take this with a focus on democracy, which is so strong in aid policy now. It is not possible to follow this at all in the accounting that the government is doing now, despite the fact that it was a clear question – well, a little bit too kind, but the question was at least included – and a problem area. It is an important issue for Swedish aid, and it would have been interesting to be able to follow up on this and see what has happened. Madam President, I would like Not least is this important because the multilateral system is hard hit by the current debate and conflict. This threatens the multilateral system very clearly. We have the Chinese agenda, which is mentioned in many contexts, not just in relation to the WHO. Here in Sweden the UNDP chose not to complete its MR-hydration, i.e. the conference it intended to hold, because the Chinese Embassy or someone high up in China did not like that there were pictures of people who Chinese leadership did not accept. Then you strangled that conference and that event. This was a signal, and there are more. The UN exists in all Member States, and the Chinese influence in many Member States is very clear. Not least in the wake of the Corona epidemic, this is something with which we have every reason to be very careful. In exactly the same way, people from China are trying to go in and take over in other contexts or reformulate or eliminate democracy. It is a result of the Chinese influence on Agenda 2030. Even with the Chinese definition, democracy is not an accepted part of the agenda. Against this background, it is extremely important for the government to report on how we can cope with the conflicts and challenges that exist. Here there is an enormous amount of development work in the performance letters to enable Sweden and the Riksdag to follow up on the goals we set for development policy in general when we adopt the budget also in the multilateral system. Otherwise, with our core support without demands, which is difficult to follow up, we will be one of those who finance the agenda that other countries have, such as China. That is not acceptable. This requires deeper vision and better reporting of results. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-397	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6. The result letter on development cooperation and humanitarian aid through multilateral organisations, which we are debating today, concerns the majority of Swedish aid. During 2018, it was about SEK 30 billion or 58 per cent of total aid, as Kerstin Lundgren also mentioned. At the same time, there are important and very relevant objections to these developments, i.e. that multilateral aid is growing at the expense of bilateral cooperation and humanitarian action. The OECD Development Assistance Committee, Dac, writes in a special study published earlier this year that Swedish aid is well implemented but that there are questions about Sweden's growing contribution to various UN agencies, often in the form of core support. The Christian Democrats have long warned against channelling too much of the aid budget into a, unfortunately, often sluggish and ineffective UN system. It is a way of using taxpayers' money which is not always the most effective and which, of course, in the long term risks undermining confidence in aid policy as a whole. The alternative, Madam President, is to channel more support to civil society organisations, which are making outstanding efforts around the world. In disaster areas, NGOs and Christian communities often work in the absolute front line. In development cooperation, it is the churches that, through local contacts, often have the best conditions to work effectively and in the long term successfully. In organizations such as PMU, Medical Mission and the Star of Hope there is the combination of long experience, ideality and a Christian view of humanity, which leads to results. This, Peter Eriksson, should be taken up by the government in a completely different way from today. Madam President, I would like It is reasonable in all aid contexts that cooperation and efforts are tested against the criteria of democracy, human rights and, not least, effectiveness. When irregularities, human rights violations and corruption are allowed to grow in host countries and organisations, there must be consequences. For this reason, important donors such as the Netherlands, Switzerland, Belgium and New Zealand have decided to freeze their financial support to the UN Organisation for Palestinian Refugees, Unrwa. Irregularities and the fact that Unrwa in part of its operations legitimises and spreads anti-Semitism led to the US withdrawing its support as early as 2018. Of course, Sweden, as one of the largest contributors, should also react strongly to the obvious abuses that we know are in Unrwa. This applies not least after the disclosures in an internal report 2019 on widespread abuse of power and fraud. It is not acceptable that the government should remain silent or take a blind eye when it comes to this. Both in order to bring about change and to maintain the willingness of the public to provide aid in Sweden, it is necessary to freeze support for Unrwa as soon as possible and to work long-term to ensure, for example, that UNHCR administers UN aid to the Palestinians, who – I would say and emphasise – will continue to have our support, of course. Madam President, I would like Development cooperation – multilateral and bilateral – makes a difference. Every year Swedish taxpayers contribute to large and for many people direct life-changing efforts. Therefore, aid policy must never depend on temporary opinions and fluctuations in the economic cycle. When the coronapandemy shakes a whole world and when 70 million people are on the run, responsibility and continuity must apply. Miscarrying in refugee camps, increasing poverty and systematic violations of human rights do not halt until the spread of infection is over and the economy may turn up again. Aid policy must be a consequence of the view of solidarity and human dignity. Responsibility for the most vulnerable lies in a dimension that cannot be read in economic terms. As important as generous aid is for those who need a helping hand, it is that every society upholds values of humanity and human dignity. The 1% target is a central part of Swedish development policy, but it is more than that. It is also a measure of our ability to look beyond self-interest and national self-interest. In the wake of the Corona crisis, aid will be reduced and conditions for the most vulnerable will deteriorate. That is why, Madam President, it is more urgent than for a long time to protect a generous and effective Swedish development policy.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-413	Madam President, I would like We have today, in this debate, to discuss the Foreign Affairs Committee's report No 17 for this Parliamentary session. It is about the government's performance letter on development cooperation. In practice, therefore, this applies to our assistance to multilateral organisations and humanitarian aid. Madam President, first of all, I would like to endorse Amendment No 6, which has also been signed by the Liberals, concerning the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, Unrwa. The problems that the world is facing right now with covid-19 and a declining world economy and so on are enormous. It's a political crisis. It is not least a medical and health crisis that the world is going through with the pandemic. It is also a political crisis for democracy. And, of course, it is a very large economic crisis. In this situation, there is a very high risk that aid for humanitarian emergency aid will also be reduced, not least because resource allocation is linked to the economic development of many countries. That is the case in Sweden. We have a 1% target. If our economy goes down, it is clear that there will also be less money in aid. At the same time, we see that the need for help never ends – it is growing. There are conflicts in the world that continue to tangle countries and tear states apart. They are found in Yemen, Syria, Libya and in many parts of the world. Not really all continents but on the vast majority there are different types of conflicts, even close to us, for example in Ukraine. I listened, Madam President, to the arguments of the Moderates. I fully agree with the importance of free trade and so on. It's a cornerstone. For us to build the world economy, we need free trade, a market economy, private ownership and so on. At the same time, we will need comprehensive and generous aid. That's my cross-security assessment, I'd say. It has to do with the fact that many people are not reached by globalisation and many people are growing up under very difficult conditions in refugee camps, in war areas and so on. Then humanitarian emergency aid is absolutely essential. However, we see chronic under-financing of this year after year. Sweden is one of the most generous donors and provides far greater support than most other countries in the Western world to be able to implement the various programs for UNHCR, World Food Programme, UN Ocha and so on. It is important that we are a generous donor, but it is also important that Sweden now changes into our foreign policy and diplomacy in order for other countries to give more. It cannot be that when other countries reduce support for a given UN agency, Sweden will go in and cover the loss by increasing our support. We can't have that. Sweden needs to act much more clearly because rich countries in the world, such as large oil countries with large funds, also use more of these funds to support the humanitarian appeals within the UN system. Madam President, I would like It is very important to understand that if corruption, nepotism, abuse of power continue to appear on a regular basis, and so on, it is clear that fewer people will be eager to use tax funds to support these agencies. That goes without saying. Then trust will be undermined. This applies both to UN agencies and to other NGOs, such as Oxfam, the British aid organisation, which had employees who grossly misbehaved in Haiti, for example. It is therefore very important that Sweden is extremely clear when there is abuse with aid funds. One should be aware, however, that it is about large sums of money for emergency aid in large organisations. There are extensive processes and so on. It is also very important to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time: of course we should fight corruption and shortcomings and point to the unacceptable. At the same time, it is important to see the efforts made by aid. This means that in some contexts it is very important that Sweden and other countries may reduce the support or are very clear. However, it should be borne in mind that when it comes to aid and resource allocation, the money will ultimately help those in need and need. If, as some argue, support for certain UN bodies and others is withdrawn completely, it may ultimately be that less constructive forces step in and cover the vacuum that arises when we stop our efforts. This isn't easy to handle all the times. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying a few words about the UN agency Unrwa. There is a problem here, partly with extensive mismanagement within Unrwa, where managers have been allowed to go and so on, as highlighted by previous speakers, and partly with regard to the entire basic mission of UN agency Unrwa. When Israel was formed in 1948 and hundreds of thousands of Palestinians fled, there was no Geneva Convention. This means that the refugee status of Palestinian refugees has a different definition from that of other refugees. The refugee status of Palestinian refugees is inherited, which it does not do for others. This means that the 700 000 – 800 000 Palestinian refugees that Unrwa had to help in the early 1950s today are 5.6 million. The UN is therefore a good man for 5.6 million Palestinians in perhaps the third and fourth generation after 1948. We have many refugees who have come to Sweden, and we say that they will be integrated, able to get citizenship and naturalized and so on. But that is not the case with the Palestinian refugees, but with the idea that everyone should return. Everyone understands that it is completely unrealistic for 5.6 million Palestinians to return to Israel because their grandfather or grandfather's father previously lived in Palestine. Here Lebanon, Jordan and the other countries must also be prepared to take greater responsibility. The Palestinian refugees have become a pawn in a political game. They are cynically used while not having the same rights as people in the countries where they are, they cannot become citizens and so on. They are the victims of this policy, which is a fundamental problem in the whole of Unrwa's founding state, which should also be discussed more. In the long run, this creates another problem in order to achieve a two-state solution with the creation of an independent, democratic Palestinian state, which is, of course, an objective.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-430	Madam President, I would like Part of the Liberals' agreement with the government is the so-called democracy offensive, which aims to strengthen the democratic perspective of aid in general. This means that the Liberals somewhere must be behind the indicative distribution of multilateral aid that is in Sida's regulatory letter, according to which the organization Unrwa will be awarded a little more than SEK 420 million during the current year. We believe that this support should be frozen, and we therefore believe that this organisation, the United Nations Palestinian Authority, has crossed a border. This limit goes somewhere by buying schoolbooks that teach children to water the earth with their fresh blood, exterminate foreigners, and reflect on the dangers of the greedy ambitions of the Jews. When an organisation behaves in this way, it can no longer receive Swedish aid funds, we think. My question to Fredrik Malm is therefore where this limit goes for the Liberals. We know that what has happened in the past has not led the Liberals to conclude that this aid should be frozen. Therefore, I want to hear what this organisation needs to do in order for Fredrik Malm to come to the same conclusion as us. Where's your line? It is not a question of helping or not helping; there are several other organisations that could solve the same task as Unrwa solves today but without this kind of anti-Semitism that is sitting in the walls of Unrwa. It could perhaps be managed in the same way as the Syrian refugees in Turkey, for example, through the UNHCR or any other organisation. Where's the limit for the Liberals? Where's your red line?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-435	Madam President, I would like There has been a problem in Swedish aid for decades with too little focus on democracy and human rights. Too much Swedish aid funds have gone to undemocratic regimes and so on. There are still some examples of this, although it has become better than before. Liberals have always stood up for and will always stand up for us to have comprehensive support for democracy and a focus on democracy in aid. As far as I know, we are also the only party in the Swedish parliament that says that the goal of democracy should be the primary objective of poverty in Swedish aid. That is a rather radical position which, unfortunately, we are all too alone at the moment. The examples mentioned by Ludvig Aspling are, of course, hair-traveling. These are totally macabre examples, and they are not the only ones. The problem is that if you do as the Swedish Democrats and the American administration and others argue for and cut the entire support for Unrwa, these schools in the Gaza Strip will probably be run by Hamas instead. One must take extremely seriously the problems of corruption and abuse that exist in various UN agencies and aid organisations, which I tried to highlight in my speech. But at present, even the Israelis do not want to withdraw all funding for Unrwa, because they understand that if they do, Hamas and Iran will push it all. That's the problem. With regard to the examples mentioned by Ludvig Aspling, it goes without saying that all this must go away and that Sweden must be extremely clear. I can imagine a reduction in funding being marked on certain occasions, but I find it hard to see that it would be good if Unrwa today were to completely close the shop.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-440	Madam President, I would like What the Israelis want is for the international community to help them deal with the problem. As far as I know, the Israelis have never specifically said that they want Unrwa and no one else to help them deal with the problem. The problem we see is that Unrwa as an organisation has now passed a limit on what is acceptable within the UN system. You cannot behave in this way and continue to receive Swedish tax money. Once you have crossed the border, you can no longer accept Swedish tax money – it is easy. If they talk about watering the earth with their fresh blood, reflect on the dangers of the Jews'greedy ambitions, and buy schoolbooks where they stand, it is no longer possible to cooperate with them. This does not mean that we will not provide support in any other way. There are other organisations that could solve Unrwa's task. That is why the issue still has to hang a little in the air. Fredrik Malm has not given a really good explanation of why it is that the Liberals still see Unrwa as the best option to solve the task instead of someone else.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-443	Madam President, I would like I'm getting a little perplexed. Half my speech dealt with the problem of the whole of Unrwa's mission. Of course we see the problem. I do not really see why the United Nations should in practice be a good man for almost 6 million people, who are still going to live an incomparable life in camps after 70 years, because they are not going to be integrated or naturalised and because they have become pawns in a political conflict that requires everyone to return collectively. This whole structure is strange today. It was logical in 1948, but it's not that in 2020. There is no one who accepts the examples mentioned by Ludvig Aspling. They are completely hair-traveling and totally unacceptable. The only thing I note is that Israel also does not want to go that way where Unrwa today has to close the shop. It is recognized that someone else will come and open the shop and run the schools instead, and it is probably even worse. Replace every person who misbehaves within Unrwa, was clear, set much tougher demands, demand reform and so on. Sweden will definitely do that. That is also something for which we Liberals have stood up. The Liberals are one of the parties in this House who argue that Sweden should not give any support to the Palestinian authorities, precisely because they support and fuel anti-Semitism, that they can continue to polarise and make it more difficult to achieve peace and to imprison Palestinian dissidents on the territory they control in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-448	Madam President, I would like I want to start in Benin. Until three years ago, Kindozandji Adové was forced to decide which of her three daughters was going to school. She couldn't afford to let all three of us do it. Her oyster sales did not provide enough income to cover school fees. Thanks to a 60 - dollar UNDP microcredit, she was able to acquire two timber rafts that she can now use to catch oysters. She thus gets bigger catches and can sell more, and now all three daughters go to school. About half of Sweden's development cooperation is channelled through the UN and other multilateral organisations. Sweden is also one of the most important players in this area, and we have a great influence in terms of our size on the relevant UN agencies. It is an influence that, in view of what has been raised in this debate, is particularly important based on Swedish values and priorities. As usual, I think, when you discuss aid, you do it as a Swede with great pride. We have a tradition of open and transparent aid, of which we can truly be proud. This also applies to the multilateral. Unfortunately, nationalism, protectionism and populism are in danger of taking over the international agenda. The fact that this is happening at a time when, on the basis of international law, international law and human rights, we have to deal with more protracted conflicts than the world has seen for a long time means that we see more refugees, more migrants and more crises. This is happening at a time when research shows us that even if we live up to all the promises in the Paris Agreement, we will not meet the climate challenge. We see the growing nationalism, protectionism and populism at a time when we need a rule-based agenda and multilateral cooperation more than for a long time. This applies to the EU, and it applies to the United Nations, and this applies to development banks, which, through their funding, play a major role. Furthermore, it is important that we in Sweden, at the time we are in, ensure that in the best and most effective way we actually support the fight against poverty, that we counteract the reduction of the scope for human rights and that we support sustainable development and do not shy away from responsibility. The development of women's and girls' sexual and reproductive health is progressing in the world, but at the same time we know that sexual and reproductive rights are threatened by the very archconservative forces and nationalist currents that are gaining ground in more and more countries. The action of the United States not to support aid organisations that talk about, inform about or in any way participate in carrying out abortions is and remains a major setback for women and girls all over the world, as the United States is by far the largest donor globally when it comes to maternal health and contraception. Moreover, to withdraw support for the World Health Organisation, in the midst of an ongoing pandemic, the like of which we have not seen in modern times, is nothing more than scandalous in terms of timing. It has to be mentioned. I am pleased that we in Sweden so far have a broad consensus and broad political agreement on issues of equality and freedom of expression. It is also important for our aid. This means that regardless of the government, Sida and other Swedish aid actors actually have a mandate to be a driving force internationally on the issues. When we see that LGBT people's rights are being attacked or the right to abortion is being attacked, we can rely on Swedish aid to stand up for everyone's equal rights and value. In its review of Swedish aid in 2019, OECD-Dac wrote that Sweden is a committed advocate of multilateralism, paying particular attention to Sweden's flexible funding, the multi-annual core support and the breadth of multilateral partners and Sweden's long-term relations with them. It is through Sweden's long-term, consistent and purposeful work that we also ensure that our Swedish priorities are actually raised on the world agenda. We are in a time of enormous global challenges that require common solutions. We know that cooperation reduces administration, and the joint work provides greater opportunities to learn from each other. And through the cooperation of the multilateral organisations in particular, we as a country also have greater opportunities to influence the whole development agenda. We from the Swedish side have been keen to support the UN system as an important system carrier for effective response and also as an important bridge between humanitarian work and long-term development cooperation. But, of course, it should also be orderly. I think it is incredibly important for this debate to be characterised by objectivity and nuances, and, as I think Lars Adaktusson mentioned in his speech, things must have the right proportions in the debate. Of course, a few examples cannot say everything about all aid. There is simply no evidence of that. What happens if we are not ready to take our share of responsibility for the outside world? Well, as Fredrik Malm so excellently said in the line shift here just now, then it is perhaps Hamas who runs the schools instead. If we are not ready to take our share of responsibility for the outside world, it is only a matter of time before the problems come to us in the form of an increased insecurity of security policy, climate and war refugees – not everyone appreciates, perhaps not everyone in this House – as well as pandemics such as the one we are in the midst of and not least violent extremism. I therefore call for the motion in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-462	Madam President, I would like As a politician responsible for aid issues, I think that every day is important days to talk about multilateral development cooperation and humanitarian aid. Now that this pandemic is spreading around the world, it is even more important if possible. We all know that aid is needed as long as consumption, production, working conditions and the distribution of profits are unequal and at the expense of the earth's resources, both human and natural. However, there are parties that despite all the knowledge that exists about what drives the world to poverty, environmental degradation and conflict stubbornly pursue policies that only benefit the rich – in the first even though they cut off the branch they themselves sit on. As long as we have a society that benefits those who already have the most, it is not possible to build an equal and fair society that lasts. As long as we make more use of earth's resources than is sustainable, climate change will affect us all. The market alone has never been able to solve the unfair distribution of earth's resources. We have seen that so-called free markets gave countries better bnp but that that money then ended up in the pockets of power and did not benefit the whole people – partly because workers get lousy wages and working conditions so that the owners get bigger own profits and partly because the owners slip away from paying taxes. At the same time, the earth has been impoverished. A fair world demands democracy and influence. Authoritarian leaders can in some cases build up parts of education and healthcare and create a partially functioning economy. But the prize is to varying degrees corruption, restriction of human rights, imprisonment of journalists and silence of trade union activists, indigenous peoples and feminists. It is not a foundation for building a worthy society. Worldwide ideas are needed that become laws in each country in order for us to get to grips with this. Human rights due diligence, which requires companies to pay decent wages and have good working conditions and respect for human rights in the country, is one of them. Another is combating tax evasion, including country-by-country reporting. Without tax revenue, it is impossible to build a democratic society and stable authorities that deliver equal welfare. The debt of poor countries is now a major obstacle to development. In many countries, interest and amortisation expenditure prevents investment in education, health care and infrastructure, which fundamentally threatens development opportunities. In practice, we have a world order where poor countries pay to rich countries. Madam President, I would like Through family and friendship ties, work in international organisations, foreign studies and foreign trade, the world is strongly interlinked. Then we need more open cooperation, not nationalistic solitude. The pandemic has highlighted the importance of open international cooperation. Unfortunately, some choose to withdraw or threaten to withdraw from such multilateral cooperation. Sweden must use all available channels to counteract this. Until we have a world that is equal, equal, anti-racist and sustainable for future generations, aid is needed – different kinds of aid. Small, fast and flexible organisations are needed that can reach people that we cannot reach. They also have shorter and faster decision-making channels, reducing the risk of corruption, nepotism and stagnation. They also act as watchdogs and whistleblowers when abuse has been committed, rights violated or development is heading in the wrong direction. They are responsible for promised reforms and decisions, but also as a source of information, both for the population of a country and for the outside world. We also need what we are talking about today: large multilateral organisations which already exist in many places in the world and which have an infrastructure that others cannot afford or have the opportunity to build. With the help of that structure, they can quickly reset in the event of disasters. The multilateral organisations simply reach where Sweden cannot always reach. However, it has been shown that large multilateral organisations have long ways of making decisions and that it takes time for them to change their working culture as society changes. Now, for example, the UN has finally addressed this issue. Even if the UN's major reform work is so far going well, we must ensure that this work does not stop off or lead in the wrong direction. One difficulty for these organisations is that they find it difficult to adjust when an excessive proportion of their aid is earmarked. Sweden is one of the few countries that provides a large proportion of their aid not earmarked for multilateral organisations, which is a good thing. It would be desirable for Sweden to convince other countries to do the same, because aid is not there for us in the rich part of the world to be able to pat on our shoulders and feel that we are kind. Effective assistance must be based on the terms and conditions of the beneficiary. Aid cannot be just about dealing with humanitarian crises. It must also lead to long-term changes and the building of resilient societies so that disasters do not have such a major negative impact. Since Sweden is a major core provider of support to a number of multilateral organisations, Sweden has been able to press for increased gender equality, democracy-promoting work and climate focus. For example, it was Anders Compass who revealed extensive sexual abuse committed by UN personnel. He had to pay an extremely high price. But now there is zero tolerance to sexual exploitation, and procedures and functions have been introduced to prevent more abuse. Sweden must continue to press for equality, equality, equal rights and ecological sustainability. Madam President, I would like The aim is that aid should not be needed. But to achieve this, we must ensure that all people everywhere have decent working conditions and wages, that all children everywhere have a good school, that all women everywhere do not have men's violence, that all minorities everywhere have their rights covered, and that we preserve the environment and climate of the earth so that future generations can live. It requires an equal, equal, anti-racist world on an ecological basis. Until this is achieved, multilateral aid is one of many important tools for achieving a fairer world order.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-479	Madam President, I would like A significant part of Swedish aid goes through international organisations, including the UN, the World Bank and regional development banks. That is what we are discussing today. That part has grown and is today a very large part. But bilateral aid and assistance through civil organisations are also important. My intention is for this to have an increased share of the Swedish aid budget in the long term. A first step in such a process was the strengthening of the administrative budget for Sida, which we increased both last year and this year. There was a time before the pandemic, Madam President, when we political leaders from different parts of the world traveled and met. Last autumn I attended such a meeting in New York at the annual opening of the UN General Assembly. There America's Donald Trump and Brazil's Jair Bolsonaro began with much the same message. They said that the world and the future belong to the nationalists – those who look after their own rather than trying to build cooperation between countries. For me, it was a shocking experience to see and hear how two of the world's most influential leaders on the ground when the UN gathered could turn their backs on everything that the UN means and stands for. The UN was formed after World War II by a world that was torn and tired after war, death and chaos. It was both necessary and possible to rebuild a society and cooperation in the ruins after years of violence and destruction. Never since has it been as obvious as today that cooperation is the way to solve the common challenges and crises that the world is facing right now. Ever since then, it has been so clear how closely interconnected the countries of the world are and how central it is that we have well-functioning multilateral organisations. No single country will solve the climate crisis. International regulations, agreements and cooperation are needed. The same applies to the health crisis we are seeing now, the refugee crisis that many have talked about, biodiversity and the economic crisis that we are also seeing at the moment. Today's situation is an excellent example of this. When the world is in the midst of the Corona crisis, we see how crucial international cooperation is. WHO, the World Health Organisation, to coordinate the global health response. The humanitarian organisations and funds, such as UN Ocha, the International Red Cross and the UN Food Programme, in order to provide rapid support for the most vulnerable. The World Bank and the regional development banks, in order to alleviate the economic effects of the pandemic and start reconstruction. Health funds, the global vaccination alliance Gavi and the Global Fund against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, to maintain health systems at country level. The UN Human Rights Office, to monitor and ensure that measures against the pandemic do not undermine these rights and democracy. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to address and address the socio-economic effects of the crisis. None of this would have been possible without long-term financial support and political commitment from a small number of countries such as Sweden. None of this would have been possible otherwise. International cooperation in the world is vulnerable. It is based on a fragile system of financial support and contributions. Too few are prepared to provide so-called core support with flexibility and opportunities to act when crises occur. The way in which international cooperation is organised is also problematic. The largest have the right of veto in the Security Council and sometimes too much political influence. The system is also threatened by political instability, and democracy and cooperation are undermined by authoritarian countries with an agenda based on values that are completely different from those we believe should be the focus. A crucial issue is also the question of efficiency. It is therefore important to ensure that it is acted quickly and effectively against irregularities and corruption when it occurs, as it does here too. It occurs in other organisations, and so does Sweden. It does so wherever you deal with large sums of money and where there are a large number of people. Confidence in international cooperation is extremely important. That is why we must act, and Sweden does so every time such things happen. This is what we have, and nothing else. It is also this system that we must try to build on and reform wherever possible. We must also show that our values in terms of democracy, freedom of expression, transparency and human rights are worth fighting for. The global arena is in practice a battle scene about values and about the future. Sweden fights for life – for democracy and human rights. We are at the forefront of gender equality and a decent life for our children and grandchildren as well. Our efforts are also seen with great respect by other countries, and more follow in our footsteps. Our fight for multilateralism is also a self-interest. A small and world-dependent country like Sweden needs common organisations and common rules. We cannot afford a situation where the big ones can decide everything and where China, the United States or Russia govern our future with only their own interests in mind. Swedish aid is about helping millions of poor and vulnerable people in need. It is about supporting journalists who are threatened, young girls who are at risk of being circumcised in the genital area and rebuilding mangrove forests that have been devastated. But it is also about power, responsibility and who and what will govern the future. It is a daily war of values and interests. We do this job through our own work but also by supporting and financing international organisations around the world. The alternative is the right and governance of the strong, where democracy and human rights are mocked and despised. Magdalena Schröder says in this debate that she wants to reduce aid. She questions whether it goes to the right things and is effective. Of course, you can think of all sorts of things, but there are also those who make proper, proper evaluations of Swedish aid. The largest organization that does this is called OECD-Dac. They believe that Swedish aid should be given the highest mark and that it is a very effective aid that reaches the poorest in the world. Ludvig Aspling, for example, chooses to pursue propaganda against the WHO, rather than trying to conduct an objective debate. Clearly, the aim is not to improve the WHO at all, but to undermine confidence in cooperation. Of course, the WHO should be evaluated after the pandemic is over, but this is not the focus right now. It is now a question of trying to resolve the crisis we are in and of supporting the WHO in its work. This is more important than anything else if we are to cope with this situation. Kerstin Lundgren talks about better reporting of results and about the conclusions the government draws from this. I agree that we can improve accounting; it can be done much better. This is also the beginning of a process – this is the second time we have published this type of performance report. The conclusions will come gradually, including when we decide on new multi-annual agreements with these organisations. We will do so to a greater extent next year.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-494	Madam President, I would like Although the Minister for Development did not mention this, the situation within the UN agency Unrwa is deeply worrying, and it has also emerged from the debate in the past. This has also been confirmed in the review report published last year. The figures there were deemed to be so serious that important donors withdrew. This crisis of confidence came in a situation that was already serious. The US withdrew its support in 2018. It was preceded by widespread criticism of inefficiency, corruption and not least the fact that Unrwa legitimises anti-Semitism in part of its activities. It is about teaching material, as we have heard earlier in the discussion, but it is also about other contexts. In September 2019 the organization Human Rights Watch published a report showing that anti-Semitism and sedition against Israel are being spread by local workers within Unrwa. Human Rights Watch reveals ten cases in which Unrwa employees, via mainly social media, call for violence against Jews, where terror-prone people who have murdered civilian Israelis are hailed and where Adolf Hitler is portrayed as a role model. This shall be added to previous reports on some ninety similar cases revealed between 2015 and 2017, including in these cases with coated anti-Semitism and calls for jihadism.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-498	Madam President, I would like I think that anti-Semitism and jihadism in these contexts are totally unacceptable. Unrwa is a UN organisation that should stand up for the values that the UN stands for. I would also like to say that Sweden has reacted very clearly to the irregularities that have been detected in recent years. We have reacted directly to the Secretary-General and the UN office in New York. We have called for changes, and so have we. It didn't happen immediately. But today we have a new leadership for Unrwa, and I believe that the new management has taken the problems very seriously and that there have been changes in this system.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-500	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister for Development thinks that this is a problem. I also understand that the Development Minister has openly criticised what happened and revealed the abuse of power within the organisation, and the Development Minister himself mentioned it. But then it becomes even more strange that no action is taken by the government. The problems that we see are well documented, but the government is not taking any action, unlike the countries that have decided to freeze their aid until the situation has improved and changed. I want to be clear on one point in this debate, namely that it is important to make it clear that Peter Eriksson and the government parties are not alone here in Parliament to see the need for support for Palestinian areas. That's not what this is about. It is a population that has long been oppressed and denied fundamental human rights by a corrupt regime and by a leadership that has engaged in abuse of power. Of course, we should support the Palestinian people, but keeping a dysfunctional system under arms year after year is not taking responsibility. Instead, increase the aid, Peter Eriksson, to civil society organisations, which I was into! Give a larger share of aid to the UNHCR and take part in a development in which UNHCR and perhaps other UN agencies can replace Unrwa in a large number of areas! That is how we will deal with this. Is Peter Eriksson prepared to contribute to this?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-503	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I do not believe that civil organisations have the capacity and the ability to take over this. It is about education for 500 000 young people, and it is about health care for millions of people. It's not a small organization we're talking about here. I agree with Fredrik Malm, for example, when he raises the question of whether this is a way that is really good and works in the long term. Obviously, something shows that it does not work when generations of people live in refugee situations year after year, perhaps their whole lives. Something is fundamentally wrong here. However, I do not think it is a solution that we should abolish support for the UN organisation Unrwa, which is responsible for education and health care. We need to find other reforms, agreements and strategies in the region in order to resolve this in the longer term. It does not help unilaterally simply to close down a business or hand it over to Hamas or other local organisations. It won't work.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-505	Madam President, I would like I listened to Minister Eriksson and heard that there is a picture from the government that there are possibilities for improvement in terms of the result letter. What still surprises me a little is where you take your starting point. When I look at the results, I also follow, of course, how the strategy set out by the government looked and how the results of the strategy were reflected. We may have different views on parts of this, but that is still the government's strategy. How do you follow up the strategy in the report you submit to the Riksdag? Here, Minister Peter Eriksson will be obliged to reply, because in the compilation of the 53 organisations listed in the latest letter, it is not clear what has changed since the last letter. It is not clear who has been relevant and who has had an increased efficiency, who has had a lower efficiency and who has left because they have not passed the mandate. Yet it is precisely these criteria that the government has stated should be the starting point for how you work. Why, then, is this not clear? Has the government not taken up its own strategy in the result letter?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-508	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, I agree that it is possible to make the result write better. The evaluation is from 2018. It is from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I admit, the beginning of an attempt to bring about a good and effective process in dialogue with the Riksdag in this area. I can only say that I think there are good things in the result letter but that it is possible to make it even better. I hope that we will be able to have such a development next time and that we will then be able to take on board more of the points of view.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-510	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for that openness! It is clear that if we in the Riksdag are to be able to carry out our scrutiny role and carry out our mission, it is important that the letter submitted by the Government to the Riksdag is such that it makes the review meaningful. In this case, it is not easy to follow at all. This is of course serious, not least when we find ourselves in a situation where the multilateral system is being called into question. We can agree that it is important to have a multilateral regime. However, this system must not be taken over or reinterpreted, for example, in the Chinese context or in an authoritarian context, but must be based on the human rights that are the basic UN declaration. If you do not have this as a starting point without something completely different, then the whole multilateral effort that we are making is in danger of becoming a payment for someone else's agenda. It is important that this is not the case. I agree with the assessment and like that the Government said that it is important to try to allocate from multilaterally, which has grown sharply all the time, to bilaterally and allow it to grow. That is where management support is important. We look forward to such a development, Madam President.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-514	Madam President, I would like I think it should be remembered that these are the first letters we have in this area. In the past there have not been such, but it is this and the former who started a new system or process in collaboration with the Riksdag in this area. Of course it has its flaws at the beginning. That is what we are learning from, simply.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-515	Madam President, I would like The rule-based world order is challenged from various quarters. In the wake of the crisis, it becomes even more important to safeguard our standards and standards for global collaboration. This applies in everything from the trading system to standing up for international law, democracy and human rights. I think we agree on that. As far as the exact amount of money we are going to spend on aid is concerned, the Moderates and the government are not in agreement, but we should be in full agreement that the money we spend on aid should benefit the most vulnerable people. The money we spend on aid should be kept in check and know that it leads to results. This debate is about the government's performance letter on aid channelled through multilateral organisations. Sweden is among the largest donors to many UN organisations. One of these is Unrwa, which I mentioned in my speech. It is an organisation that has had such gross mismanagement that several countries have chosen to freeze aid to the organisation. Given that Unrwa has been so attentive and that Sweden is one of the largest donors to the organization, it should really be in the government's interest to ensure that Sweden's great giving to it has not disappeared in corruption. Why did the government rule out reporting the results of Sweden's aid to Unrwa in the result letter? Unrwa is mentioned in the chapter on education but chooses not to present the result. As mentioned above, Sweden is one of the largest nuclear donors to Unrwa and spends almost SEK 1.9 billion in aid to the organisation during 2018– 2021. Is the Government absolutely sure that this money has been handled wisely?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-520	Madam President, I would like The fact that Unrwa is not included as a major part of the letter is due to the fact that letters have been made in two parts for multilateral aid. The previous letter concerned those organisations that are more designated as humanitarian organisations, and this letter deepens the discussion about the other organisations. This means that Unrwa was included in the previous letter. Since it is described as a humanitarian organisation in the system, the focus was on it then, but not this time. But it is included in the list of how money is distributed.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-522	Madam President, I would like The Government is responsible for ensuring that Swedish taxpayers' money goes to what it is intended for. As far as Unrwa is concerned, there are indeed many issues, both about mismanagement of the economy and about anti-Semitic educational material, which have been raised in the debate here. I assume that the government will return to Parliament with a letter of results regarding Sweden's commitment and major contributions. The Moderates want Sweden to have a strong commitment to the world. There is aid that is effective. I mentioned in my speech Gavi and the Global Fund as two organisations showing good results. But too much is actually not good and does not lead to results. You have to be able to ask critical questions and examine a field of expenditure that is allocated twice as much as we put on the Police Authority. Unfortunately, the abuses of Unrwa that have been reported are not a one-off event. The corruption scandals in aid and organisations to which Sweden provides assistance have been numerous. Madam President, I would like So it is not enough to pay out a lot of money. Time and effort must also be put into ensuring that the money goes to what it is intended for and that the projects carried out produce results. Swedish aid cannot do everything, but where Swedish aid works, taxpayers should see the results of their giving.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-526	Madam President, I would like I agree that there have been some questions about Unrwa. There are also some answers. For example, we have now made sure that there is a new management there. The former had to resign, much depending on Swedish work. We have been very active in this. It is not true, as Mr Adaktusson said, that we are not taking any action. On the contrary, Sweden is very active and pushes for change when necessary. This is a good example of this. With regard to the second part of Swedish aid and the reductions and cuts proposed by the Moderates, I think it would look more honourable if the Moderates talked about where to reduce aid, not just where to increase it.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-528	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I mentioned a number of scandals and suspected scandals that have taken place within the organisations we are discussing here today. I mentioned, for example, that UN personnel in Yemen are suspected of embezzling millions of dollars and stealing medical supplies and fuel for very large amounts. I also mentioned that UNICEF personnel are suspected of borrowing or hiring their vehicles to armed rebels to help them avoid air strikes, which would be a very serious violation of the basic UN principle of impartiality. In addition, UN personnel sent to Yemen to investigate the suspicions of crimes received their computers seized by armed militiamen on their way out of the country, which is suspected to have been done directly by local UN personnel. I also mentioned the never-ending stream of gross anti-Semitism, terror propaganda, embezzlement and corruption that is apparently in the walls of the so-called Palestinian Authority of the United Nations. I do not need to tell Peter Eriksson this; we have discussed it before. I also mentioned that it is becoming more and more apparent that the WHO is now deeply infiltrated by the Chinese regime and acts as part of its propaganda apparatus. The letter states that when irregularities in aid organisations are discovered, Sweden has acted vigorously to overcome the problems. I would therefore like to ask Peter Eriksson: What has Sweden done in concrete terms? What can be done in such situations is, for example, to publicly demand that the management of a particular organisation be replaced, to publicly require an independent investigation of what has happened or to threaten to reduce funds. Can Peter Eriksson give some concrete examples that his government has done this, in other words, publicly called for a leadership to resign, publicly demanding that an independent investigation be set up or threatened with reducing the funding of an organisation that mismanages its mission?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-534	Madam President, I would like My picture is rather that Ludvig Aspling seems to go on someone else's propaganda case when he only talks and tries to make it that the whole multilateral system of the international community is a criminal organisation. I think that picture is completely wrong. It is a very important and vital work that goes on all the time. And we should be very happy that there are people who are prepared to do this work. Then, of course, there are examples of the opposite within the UN system and within the multilateral system. But there are examples of this also in Sweden – in authorities and in municipalities. There are clear examples of people who are now indicted because they have behaved in a very bad way – including members of the Swedish Parliament. It is not unique that there are UN organisations where there are problems. The important thing is that we from the Swedish side react properly and demand action, and we do. I can mention a number of examples of situations where Sweden has called for changes. This applies, for example, to the case of Unrwa, where we called for a clear and independent investigation in this case. There have also been investigations and evaluations that have led to our demand for management to be replaced.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-538	Madam President, I would like I have never claimed that the whole multilateral system is a criminal organisation. I would like Peter Eriksson to listen to what is actually said here in the Swedish Parliament, so that he does not have to speculate wildly about what we think. What I am saying is that there are examples where some of the UN authorities are infiltrated by criminal organisations, that this is financed by Swedish tax money and that it is completely unacceptable. That is something that Peter Eriksson should take on board. I think it is completely insane that the Minister for Development is standing and relativising this problem by saying that there is also corruption in Sweden as if two errors would make a right, that is, that there are serious problems and criminality within these organisations but that it is okay because it is also happening here in Sweden. It's a completely insane argument, and it's not okay. I would like a concrete example of Peter Eriksson going out publicly and demanding that the leadership of this Palestinian Authority be replaced. I missed it. But this may be because it may not have got as big a suggestion in the media as it deserved. I have not seen that Peter Eriksson has publicly demanded that the leadership of Unrwa be replaced. Does Peter Eriksson remember what date it was or what month?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-541	Madam President, I would like We make tough demands as soon as there are irregularities. The first demand we make is that investigations be carried out. In this case, in the case of Unrwa, it took too long. We were very annoyed about it. But we have also said that the management should be replaced. We have said this internally in the UN system, and I have also mentioned it publicly.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-542	Madam President, I would like All countries of the world are affected by this pandemic, but some are suffering so much worse than others. Last morning we heard how migrant workers' and guest workers' referrals were reduced by at least SEK 1,200 billion. Add that unemployment is increasing in all countries. And since many countries' aid is based on BNI, the amount of money distributed will decrease next year. Now, if ever, cooperation through multilateral organisations must therefore be strengthened if we are to tackle the pandemic. Then, among others, US President Trump chooses to withdraw his support to various multilateral organisations. But he also threatens some by saying that the aid will be withdrawn if the organisation does not do what Trump wants, that is, contrary to the purpose of the aid that it should be given according to the needs of the beneficiaries, not in the interests of the donors. This touched Minister Eriksson in his speech. But I would like to know a little more about how Minister Eriksson views this and what solutions he is working on to ensure that multilateral organisations get in place the support and mandate needed to enable them to work effectively with the pandemic.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-546	Madam President, I would like I can first say to Yasmine Posio that we from the Swedish side are working quite a lot to reform the entire UN system and organise it more effectively. We have come a bit along the way with the changes that the Secretary-General has now put in the lake. There we have been a lot of participants. I am also quite proud that the Swedish system for funding resources for the UN system and the multilateral system means long-term support and core support that allows people to act flexibly when a situation and crisis like the one we have right now comes. It is precisely thanks to this type of support that UN organisations can quickly come out on the ground and make humanitarian efforts. We have had it confirmed several times during this crisis, but also during hurricanes, cyclones and other things that have happened in recent years, that it is because a handful of countries in the world that are fundamentally standing up for the core support that we provide as UN organisations can function when it blows, when there is a crisis, and when things happen quickly and comprehensively when action is needed against poor and vulnerable people.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-548	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Eriksson for his answer. I would like to take this opportunity to add that it is extremely important that aid is not just something that can be measured, such as the number of syringes provided by Gavi. I think it is good that we in Sweden dare to go beyond what is precisely measurable and actually dare to work with, for example, important democracy work and SRHR work. Men's violence against women is increasing in times of crisis, and this pandemic is absolutely no exception. Add to that a reduction in the income of families, which unfortunately on some occasions leads to girls being married away. As if this was not difficult enough for girls and women, the possibility of contraception, maternal care and abortions is reduced, leading to more unwanted pregnancies and more complications in pregnancy. The pandemic itself will require increased support and cooperation, and especially the world's girls and women will need it. I therefore wonder how Minister Eriksson intends to work to ensure that this happens.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-551	Madam President, I would like We are doing so, for example, through the increased efforts we are now making in the humanitarian field. But this is not just about money but also about political commitment and what we do together to try to influence others. A good example is the letter I presented recently with South Africa's female Minister of Social Affairs. We received support in the letter from 39 ministers from different countries, and the letter has had a great impact around the world. The letter is about strengthening and working with SRHR issues and women's and girls' rights in this situation when the pandemic and covid-19 take so much resources and so much space. At this point in time, the international community must ensure that we actually also manage to deal with the other issues and do not leave the girls and women in the lurch that this is all about. I think that is a good example of how to work. It is not always about money, it is also about political commitment.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-552	Madam President, I would like I was very pleasantly surprised by what Peter Eriksson said in the previous line shift with Lars Adaktusson. There Peter Eriksson described how he shares the description I myself gave of the fundamental problem with UN agency Unrwa and, in fact, their entire mission. Peter Eriksson then mentioned reforms, processes and so on, which must be able to deal with the problem of people being in refugee camps generation after generation. Then the question is whether the government is prepared to take any initiative here. Are we prepared to start looking at Resolution 302 of 1949, for example, and the other basic principles of Unrwa's mission and see how it corresponds to, for example, UNHCR and their mission to help refugees? Is there any way to get through here? I would like Peter Eriksson to think a little bit more about this and take it further, from a shift in line with the Christian Democrat here to perhaps a concrete initiative in this direction. My second question, Madam President, concerns aid for democracy. Sweden, and certainly other countries, will in future have reduced aid frameworks as a result of the economic crisis; it is certainly not unreasonable to guess. Then the question is how we prioritise, and on the Liberal side we believe that there is now an opportunity to phase out aid to countries that are oppressors and focus more on aid to countries that want democracy and human rights. My question is how does the Minister for Development view such a priority?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-555	Madam President, I would like I will take the last question first: I think that it is part of the democratic effort that the government makes us work more and more with countries that have ambitions in terms of democracy and human rights. If it turns out that countries do not want to do anything in this area, it will be long-term so that we work less there and give them less resources. It is becoming more difficult to have some form of cooperation with the regimes in those countries. I therefore agree that such a development is both reasonable and probable. If we continue the work that I have initiated in this area, that will probably be the case. What was the second question?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-556	Exactly! Yeah, I'd be happy to take on such a mission. I think it would be very interesting to see whether it is possible to find a way forward in the longer term for this region and for the more than 5 million Palestinian refugees who today live in a way that we cannot describe as reasonable and decent. I myself have visited refugee camps in Lebanon and Jordan as well as the rest of the region, and in some cases it works relatively well. However, it is not reasonable for people to live their entire lives in refugee camps, so there really is a need for a fundamental reform or change in the situation of these people.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-557	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer to both questions. Let me start with the last one, about Unrwa. If the Minister for Development wants to take the initiative in this, it is a very positive message, but it should also be known that the core of the whole problem is today the completely unrealistic objective that all of these 5.6 million people should have the right to return. That is what is at the heart of it, and it is also the heart of Israel – the Palestine problem in many different ways – which has also become a major problem in order to achieve peace. I will be very happy if Peter Eriksson is prepared to start discussing these issues, which are very charged with world politics. As far as democracy aid is concerned, it concerns, among other things, the priority of democracy support over support for those who want to do so – unfortunately, Swedish aid still goes to such regimes – but we also have the question of the priority between different types of aid. Of course, there will be a cut sex now, as there are huge economic challenges for countries. It will require support to enter the global funds to help with budget support and wage payments to keep countries above water level and so on. Then there is the climate and aid, as well as bilateral aid, aid through civil society organisations and so on. Even in this context, it is therefore very important to protect the support that goes to the actors who promote democracy and human rights, I think.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-560	Madam President, I would like Yes, at least we seem to agree that there are major challenges in the world and that this is not the time to make major cuts in aid budgets in Sweden and other countries. Rather, further efforts would have to be made. I myself think that the 1% target has been long-term good for poor people in the world. We have stood up for it – not entirely, perhaps, but at least reasonably – for quite a few years overall. Even if we now see a slump and a decrease over a year or two, we must hope and believe that the economy is growing again and that, in the long term, if we manage to stand up for it, aid will still be strong. With regard to Unrwa and the reform of the whole situation in Israel and Palestine, it must also be remembered that it is not just the Palestinian side that needs to be seen. The situation in Israel must also be seen. If we now get a situation where there is a talk about the annexation of further areas on the part of Israel, the whole situation will only become even more difficult to deal with and find a solution to. So I think it must be recognised that this is extremely problematic. What we are facing today is not that it seems to be getting easier, but rather that it is moving towards a situation that can become even more conflict-filled.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-563	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved, except where we have reservations. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 6. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia continues to affect all layers and components of society. Life has been lost, jobs have been lost as well, and otherwise viable companies have had to close down. While society and the economy stand still in many ways, a certain part of the development is set firmly forward. One of these is the digitalisation and digital maturity of companies, organisations and people – a digitalisation that many of us have been impatiently waiting for but which required a crisis to really get off the ground. The importance of successful digitisation is an important lesson from this pandemic and is clearly highlighted in this case. That is why we Social Democrats agree with the bourgeois parties and the Green Party that the work of digitising our authorities, with the aim of simplifying for companies and for those who want to start businesses, is extremely important. We agree with the announcement to the government. The Government also agrees with this ambition and states in its response to the Swedish National Audit Office that more measures may be required. In a re-launch of the Swedish economy, it is extremely important that we stimulate and simplify for those who want to start new businesses or restart their businesses. This may be an opportunity for people to finally take hold of their dream and start the innovative company they wanted to run for a while, but at the same time it is an obligation for us to make informed decisions that both simplify and digitise business building and innovation work. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the efforts of the state authorities to facilitate business start-ups through digitalisation. The purpose of the investigation was to examine the effectiveness of the State authorities' efforts. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall observation is that the efforts have made it easier for entrepreneurs to start a business, but at the same time it is noted that more needs to be done. I am pleased that the Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's observations that digitalisation has made it easier to start a business, while the work to simplify and improve the process is progressing. I can also note that the Government points out in the letter that there are financing challenges in developing and updating digital system solutions and technical platforms. In view of this, the Government stresses, among other things, that it intends to review the need to develop forms of, for example, financing and follow-up to the joint digitisation of administration. The Government is also considering further clarifying the funding for operations that v erksamt.se and Serverat in the regulation letter for e.g. the Swedish Agency for Growth. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress that many of the government's digitisation-promoting measures were set up during the review period, which, according to the government, means that the impact of its work has not yet been fully assessed. Among other things, the Government states that the establishment of the Swedish Digital Administration Agency has been intended to improve the long-term conditions for effective governance and coordination of public digital systems and efforts. The agency has a central role in ensuring that the government achieves more coherent governance and implementation of efforts in this area. I also note that during the review period, the government set up the Committee on Technological Innovation and Ethics, Komet, which will help create good and secure conditions for technological innovation. As regards the legal conditions in digital services, the Government notes, among other things, that the Digitisation Law Investigation report has identified a number of measures to continue to ensure that there are legal prerequisites for digital and data-driven management. All of this is currently being prepared in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like An announcement to the government that it will give a simplification mission is something we could all agree on. At the same time, however, I note that the Government reports in the letter on a number of ongoing and planned actions in the spirit of simplification. In addition to the simplification mandate given by the Government to 19 authorities in 2013, the regulation on the digital collection of data from companies can be mentioned. The Regulation covers 67 authorities and aims to simplify the way for businesses to set up, operate and phase out their activities by facilitating their contacts with and reporting to authorities. Similarly, in several motions on the Serverat program, the government is being asked to work for more services to be connected to the program. Like the exercisers, we believe that efforts to reduce the administrative costs of businesses in the restaurant and hospitality industry are commendable. We note that the programme is part of the government's efforts to do just that. The Annual Report of the Swedish Agency for Growth shows that 21 municipalities joined Serverat already in 2019, which means that at the end of 2019 41 municipalities were connected to the programme. Furthermore, the Government's letter shows that the Swedish Agency for Growth is actively working to get even more municipalities to join Serverat. In addition, the Government states in the letter that extensive work has already begun within the framework of Serverat in order to improve the service and increase its use. We cannot therefore see any reason for Parliament to address an announcement to the government in accordance with what the motionaries here propose. If I may paraphrase Lars Helmered's motion on a door in, I would like to point out the importance that we as a parliamentary assembly do not break in already open doors. Madam President, I would like We must constantly look for new, necessary and innovative measures that can continue to support small and self-employed people. An important lesson from this pandemic is precisely the importance of continuing work to simplify the start-up, running and development of innovative companies through digitalisation.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-576	Madam President, I would like The regulatory burden for Swedish companies is too extensive, too complicated and too expensive. The Moderates want to see a change and drive proposals to reduce both costs and hassle for entrepreneurs in the country. It is estimated that the costs for Swedish companies increase by over SEK 1 billion per year just to comply with laws and regulations. Above all, for smaller companies, which often turn around and twist every penny, this is an unsustainable situation. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the state efforts to facilitate start-ups through digitalisation. The Government answers with a letter on how to look at what the Swedish National Audit Office has come up with. It is this report that we are now debating. First of all, the Swedish National Audit Office notes overall that efforts have made it easier for entrepreneurs to start up a business, but digital services have shortcomings, which means that they do not make it easier for companies to the desired extent. Secondly, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that there are a number of shortcomings which, it is believed, mean that digital services do not cause people to start businesses to the desired extent. The Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Tax Agency have processing processes that are largely digital, but they are not entirely digital. There are manual elements, i.e. there are locks in old operating systems. This means running new mixed with old, and then the benefits of the digital system are not achieved. It is also pointed out that public authorities' digital interaction is not fully effective, resulting in a lack of efficiency in implementation. Thirdly, the program called Serverat should be a bridge and a common tool so that municipalities connect to it, but it has far from all done so. We heard earlier that it is up to 40, and there are 290 municipalities. This in turn means that a small number of companies in a limited number of municipalities have been given the opportunity to use e-services developed under the Servera programme. The time spent by entrepreneurs on the authorisation procedure can be reduced by 32 hours with the Serverat program. If we expect an entrepreneur to work eight hours a day, digitalisation reduces working hours by four full working days. Instead, the entrepreneur could use that time for his core business, and then a great deal has been won. It must be easy to both provide and obtain information from authorities in one place. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes recommendations to the state authorities to ensure the benefits for both entrepreneurs and participating authorities in v erksamt.se, which is a collaboration between the Swedish Companies Registration Office, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency for those who will start, already run, want to develop or will phase out a company. The call for benefits is addressed to the Swedish Growth Agency and the Swedish Companies Registration Office in the development of this tool. It is also recommended to review the design of the Serverat program due to its lack of results. The Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Tax Agency are encouraged to work actively to ensure that cases are received more digitally in order to ensure usage benefits and shorter processing times for entrepreneurs and to ensure more accurate applications. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to get back on its feet after this crisis, a competitive economy is needed. The question of the regulatory burden on companies is then crucial. Digitalisation is the way forward to increase power and save time. We have to be the first on the ball, and then fast and smart solutions are the future. We are therefore not satisfied with the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. While there is a great deal of agreement, there is no clear follow-up and reconciliation to ensure that the work is actually delivered. The government says that it is in the government's task to simplify for companies and others, for example through digitalisation, and that it has follow-up discussions with the authorities. The Government therefore considers that no further clarification is necessary. Expressions that are going to follow the question are used, and we want to give sharper answers about what needs to be delivered in the form of regulatory simplifications. The fact that steps have been taken since the report was drafted is very good. We want to be clear about that. But now municipalities and authorities must also have roads that enable the business community to respond and communicate smoothly and that data can be retrieved and left in one place, i.e. a door in, which takes away additional work. Sweden cannot afford companies to spend four working days responding to public authorities. It should be done in a modern way. The 32 hours need to be removed and effective digital tools into the entire chain and across the authorities. Undertakings shall not provide the same type of information on several occasions to several authorities. There is a need for guarantees, reasonableness and clarity about processing times, and clear targets are needed for reporting the situation. In other words, it must be easier to start, run, develop and own businesses in our country. More authorities than the Swedish Agency for Growth, the Swedish Companies and the Swedish Tax Agency will work with simplification tasks. It has to be broad. The Serverat program needs to get more services in place, and more municipalities need to be connected. Digital interaction between public authorities must work directly. The sunset clause must be used when introducing new laws and regulations. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 4. Of course, I also support our other reservations. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-591	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 9 in paragraph Other on simplification of the rules. We find ourselves in an extremely strained situation for Swedish business and our economy. It is essential that we take all policy measures that can in any way help to secure jobs and avoid business failures. In this context, it seems more important now than before the pandemic that we ensure that the state efforts carried out to facilitate start-ups through digitalisation are properly targeted and sufficient to their extent. That is why I am pleased that we in the committee have joined forces on most issues and at the vote later today will address a total of four announcements to the government. In my speech, I intend to focus on three of these, but first of all it is worth mentioning something about regulatory simplification and our demands for exercise in this area. Sweden is traditionally a country with strong authorities and very detailed regulation. In a world of global trade and fierce competition, this in many cases seems anti-competitive to Swedish companies. For Swedish companies, the regulatory burden means costs and administration that take the focus from the companies' actual operations. These additional costs hamper job creation and growth. It is therefore essential to seek simplification and remove unnecessary regulations where the consequences do not match the benefits. It is also important that new and changed rules are cost-effective. For us, it is clear that the government as well as the Swedish administrative authorities need to prioritise the simplification work, which is best done through systematic cooperation with professional business organisations. The Swedish Democrats also have a large collection of proposals on the subject. This report highlights, among other things, that the Rule Council should be placed as an independent body under the Prime Minister's Committee and given an extended mandate through a stop function in the event of a lack of impact assessments, that Sweden needs an implementation council like the Danish one, which aims to avoid unnecessary over-implementation of EU directives and that most of the untimely rules affecting the tourism industry need to be removed, including the dance permit. Madam President, I would like Now, to the announcements of the Swedish Democrats, the announcements were backed up! First of all, it is the opinion of the committee and the Swedish National Audit Office that the government has not done enough for authorities to simplify for entrepreneurs with the help of digitalisation. Therefore, it is our view that the Riksdag should announce to the Government that it should consider giving more government agencies a so-called simplification task in order to facilitate entrepreneurship in Sweden. Secondly, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Serverat programme has so far had limited benefits for entrepreneurs as a result of low municipal accession. For this reason, the committee believes that the Riksdag should announce to the Government that it should work towards connecting more services to the Serverat programme in order to increase the degree of accession of the municipalities. Thirdly, given the existing legal uncertainty, it is important that new laws and regulations introduced fulfil their objectives and that they are not removed when this is revealed. The committee therefore believes that the government should try to use sunset clauses when introducing new laws and rules. Madam President, I would like It is my conviction that these announcements on implementation would make it easier for the Swedish business community in this desperate time. I hope, without believing, that the government shares this view and is rapidly taking action. It would be a small act with great potential positive effects for our hard-pressed business community.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-601	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's review of government efforts to facilitate start-ups through digitalisation is what we are discussing. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am in favour of reservation 10. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to imagine what our society would look like without the internet and the digital structures that we are now getting used to and that we will get used to further. The business community in Sweden, as well as associations, everyday life and well-being, are becoming increasingly digitized. Trade routes, communications and services are becoming increasingly digital. Being in the digital forefront of a market can often be the most crucial advantage for a company. Therefore, it is also crucial that the government acts in order for the Swedish business community to be able to make full use of the opportunities of digitalisation. Sweden and Swedish companies have a strong position in the digitalised economy, a position that needs to be nurtured and developed. At the same time, there is an imminent risk that red tape and rules will slow down the possibilities of digitalisation for new services and jobs. In addition, the level of digitalisation in the public sector varies widely, affecting the potential for better services for business and citizens. In its review, the Swedish National Audit Office makes a concrete criticism of the Government's work to facilitate Swedish entrepreneurs through digitalisation. The administrative system of government cannot always talk to each other. Many steps are still manual, and tasks need to be checked in several systems. There is a need for secure digital communication between administrators and entrepreneurs. There is a need for more efficient thinking. Unfortunately, so many municipalities are not yet connected to Serverat. The Center Party believes that more needs to be done and that it must be easier to become an entrepreneur in Sweden. Let me give you a few examples, Madam President. Sweden has still not been able to ensure that companies – or citizens for that matter – will not have to provide the same information on several occasions. The processing times are still quite long. Changes still depend on finding and training employees who can make it through the process. This must be done better. Existing rules should be continuously adapted to the new digital reality. Prints that require contact via analog channels such as letters or faxes should be changed. It must be possible for the public and businesses, as well as the public sector, to propose adaptations and changes to the application of existing regulatory frameworks with a view to digitalisation, for example through a wider regulatory council, which should also be able to take initiatives to adapt. New legislation should be digitalised and therefore simple and clear, using concepts that go in the opposite direction and be designed with a focus on automation of management and processes. At the same time, there should be sunset clauses to ensure that legislation is evaluated and can be removed or amended if it no longer meets its purpose. The state should take a leading role in the work for standards and the creation of structured data in the Swedish public sector in collaboration with SKR. This would increase competition in public sector trade. The state should also open up properly to open data for business and open societal benefits for tens of billions through innovations and new services. These are all measures that can improve business start-ups, new innovations and also existing ones. The current social crisis is forcing new solutions, Madam President. Then we must speed up the pace of state power on this issue.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-609	Madam President, I would like Sweden must have a competitive industry that is at the forefront of digital development and research. Sweden is one of the world's most digitised countries. We will continue to develop the country and be at the forefront of digitalisation. Many industries are currently facing a challenge where more and more professions are digitised and automated. Properly used technology development can lead to improved quality of life, better working conditions and a general reduction in working hours. However, it is based on the protection of the Swedish model and the fact that good working conditions and conditions for conversion are in place. A digital shift places high demands on companies, authorities and staff. At best, digitalisation may bring important climate benefits, benefits for the workers as well as better conditions for the individual entrepreneur. New platforms for entrepreneurs can reduce regulatory burdens and improve interaction between different parties. We can increase efficiency by helping companies to develop and remove barriers. Digitalisation has a key role to play here. It is important that it is used primarily to make it more efficient and not to increase information gathering or bureaucracy. We see that increased digitalisation is an important element in facilitating processes, as in the start-up of companies. Entrepreneurs today have to contact several authorities. In some sectors, there are also complex registrations and/or permit applications, for example in the restaurant and construction sectors. It is something that can be made more efficient by using digital technology. We look forward to further work on digital collaboration between authorities to facilitate, streamline and create room for better development for the new companies. This is particularly true during these times of crisis. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-615	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating an urgent issue. This is the Swedish National Audit Office's review of government efforts to facilitate start-ups through digitalisation. The audits carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office are good, and this review is a clear example. Several simplification actions have been undertaken. However, the review shows that digital services have shortcomings. Generally speaking, both our entrepreneurs and our citizens are more digitised than the Swedish Government, and this report also shows this. It is therefore a good thing that the committee proposes four announcements to the government about, among other things, efforts to simplify for companies, where the government will give more government agencies a so-called simplification task in order to facilitate entrepreneurship in Sweden and take further measures to increase digital collaboration between authorities. Madam President, I would like Some of the remaining issues that we Christian Democrats are pursuing are the introduction of a guarantee that companies will only have to submit one task once to the authorities and that the task will then be passed on to the relevant authority. This could significantly reduce the administrative time for businesses so that they can spend more time on what they are passionate about, doing business, which in turn creates value and jobs. We Christian Democrats have also highlighted the issue of the importance of Sweden setting up an implementation council similar to the Danish model in terms of EU legislation. It should be a council that has the task of contributing to the work towards over-implementing EU directives in Swedish legislation. In this respect, the starting point should be that EU directives are introduced at a minimum level in national legislation to protect and strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies. We Christian Democrats believe that the government needs to develop a coherent action plan with clear and measurable targets for reducing the regulatory burden on companies. Some tips on the way from us Christian Democrats are: A rule in, a rule out, should be introduced. This means that when new rules are introduced, regulatory facilitation must be implemented to at least the same extent. The service provided by public authorities to enterprises can be crucial to the development of enterprises. That's another tip. Service guarantees should be clearly defined and there should be timed guarantees as to what service to expect as an entrepreneur. Investigate service guarantees for companies in order to contribute to faster, more qualitative and predictable government services. It should also be regulated how companies are to be compensated if the authority is unable to comply with this particular guarantee. Madam President, I would like In times like these, where we are in a deep economic crisis because of the coronapandemia, it is all very urgent. It is about companies having to reset and digitise in order to be able to do digital business. Then the state needs to do its thing and not lag behind, because without business we have no welfare. I hereby request the approval of reservation 8.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-627	Madam President, I would like As an old entrepreneur, all forms of simplification to start up and run businesses make you happy. Today, we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review of government efforts to facilitate start-ups through digitalisation. Today, therefore, I am pleased that, through liberal reforms, we will create better conditions for business start-ups. On the other hand, I am concerned when parties in this House do not support simplification. Many more in this House should try setting up and running businesses. If you do not choose that way, you should at least put your ear to the rails and feel trends and what reality looks like. There, this House has a great deal of work to do in the future. As the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party, to declare themselves satisfied with the government's simplification efforts is regrettable. The government has to do more. We have to do more. It's all about the signal readings we send out. In my Sweden more will and dare to start a business. This is why it is an important signal that we are sending an announcement to the government to give more government agencies a simplification task in order to facilitate entrepreneurship in Sweden. The same applies to the announcement that the government should work for more services to be connected to the Serverat programme in order to increase the degree of accession of municipalities. To think, as some parties then, that it is enough for some forty municipalities to join and refer to work going on is most unfortunate. On the contrary, the government needs to do more. We have to do more. Again, it's about signal readings. In my Sweden more will and dare to start a business. I also note that the Left Party is satisfied with the digital interaction between the authorities. On the contrary, the government needs to do more here. We have to do more. I am therefore pleased that we are also sending an announcement to the government that it must take further steps to simplify entrepreneurship and increase digital interaction between authorities. Last but not least, Madam President, today we are going to address an announcement to the government to introduce so-called sunset clauses. This means that a law or regulation shall cease to apply after a certain date pre-determined upon its introduction. Here too, some parties do not support it, but think that we are already doing enough. On the contrary, Madam President, we need to do more. Today we are addressing four important announcements to the government. We will create better conditions to facilitate start-ups. Am I happy? Yes, I absolutely am. But am I happy? I'm definitely not. There are more parts in which we must continue to carry out simplification work. It is all about what signal values we want to send to today's, but above all to tomorrow's, entrepreneurs. There are clear facts on which we do not agree in this House. One such thing is what we call a door in. Entrepreneurs today have to submit the same types of data to several different authorities. In order to reduce administrative costs for businesses and to simplify their reporting, uniform and national solutions are needed to facilitate the exchange of information between authorities. Let us simplify for businesses! A door in would strengthen Swedish entrepreneurship. Liberals will continue to work towards this. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4. Madam President, I would like In order for the whole of Sweden to grow, more jobs are needed. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues, which could, for example, go to our common welfare. Sweden therefore needs an entrepreneurial policy, and it is achieved through a favourable environment for businesses and through regulatory simplification. Unfortunately, developments in recent years have gone in the wrong direction. It should and must be easier to start and run businesses, and it is a work that needs to be prioritised by the government and its authorities. For the Liberals, the conclusion is clear: Without entrepreneurs, Sweden stays. It is companies that create both jobs and the tax revenues that finance our welfare. High ambitions with welfare are based on people working and our companies growing. In my Sweden more will and dare to start a business. Without entrepreneurs, Sweden stays.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-643	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start by saying that it is very important that it should be easy to start and run businesses. Digitisation must be coherent and work well; this crisis has demonstrated in particular. It is important to reduce the administrative costs of companies, especially in the restaurant and hospitality industry, but also, of course, in other sectors. The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed the efforts of the state authorities to make it easier for entrepreneurs to start a business with the help of digitalisation. There is extensive work in this area. Much work is also going on since the report was produced. Let me mention a few things: a great deal of work has been started within the framework of aktivitet.se and the Serverat programme in order to improve services and increase use. Among other things, work has been started by the Swedish Companies Registration Office during the year to update the platform for aktivitet.se. It is now working to develop digital services, such as Serverat, to include more permit processes and case types. The Swedish Agency for Growth is doing an active job to get more municipalities to join these services. The government has set up a digital administration authority to improve the conditions for effective governance and coordination of public digital systems in the long term. The government has also set up the Committee for Technological Innovation and Ethics, called Comet. It will help create good and secure conditions for technological innovation. The Committee's mandate includes identifying the need to adapt regulations and delivering policy-development proposals to the government, which can then be prepared. This may include, for example, possible obstacles in the form of legislation, adaptation of the regulatory framework or the need for changing forms of work. As far as A door is concerned, as we have heard here, the government has decided on a regulation on the digital collection of data from companies. It states that public authorities should ensure that systems are developed that do not require companies to provide the same information several times. We have also heard about sunset clauses. The Minister for Industry has indicated that it may be appropriate to consider this in cases where it is applicable, reasonable and appropriate. You have to decide on a case-by-case basis. Madam President, I would like As I began by saying, it is very important that it should be easy to start and run a business. Digitalization is also important. But there is already extensive work in progress that is in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. The important thing is not really announcements, but the important thing is that the work is actually done in reality and reaches out to companies. From the government parties, as you have heard before, we believe that the motionaries are breaking open doors. It is important that the impact of the measures that have been launched and are on the roll can be assessed before throwing in even more new measures. I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-651	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have the principle of imperfection in our party programme. In the past, I voted in favour of a reservation which we ourselves do not support. Of course, I will not do that, but I would like to endorse reservation 7.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-652	Madam President, I would like This debate will be about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Swedish Competition Authority's supervision. It is an issue that may seem peripheral and rather narrow, especially in times of coronapandemia. However, the issue is important. I would like to begin by calling for the reservation under paragraph 2 and thereby rejecting the motions by the Swedish Democrats, the Centre Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. For those who have not read the Enterprise Committee's report No 17 I can tell you that this debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report 2019:26 on the Swedish Competition Authority's supervision. Reports from the Swedish National Audit Office can sometimes appear a bit dry as a starting point for political debates. But that's actually what I sometimes say to my five-year-old son: Everything in life doesn't have to be fun or poppy. It may still be important. This is the case both with the Swedish National Audit Office's reports and with the Swedish Competition Authority's responsibility for the supervision of competition rules and of public procurement. These are extremely important issues. In this speech, I will try to put the Swedish Competition Authority's activities in a context linked to Swedish competitiveness, discuss the Swedish National Audit Office's review and finally say something about the political dividing lines here in the Swedish Parliament. Two years ago, in this House, we had a debate on economic policy with a focus on Swedish competitiveness. There I myself stated that Sweden's economy is strong, that more than 300 000 more Swedes had a job to go to 2018 than 2014, that the share that was supported by different compensation systems was the lowest since 1981 and that the government had increased investments in healthcare, school and care by 35 billion – a figure that has now passed 50 billion. What, then, do investments in Swedish welfare and our economy have to do with the supervision of the Competition Authority? Well, we know that different factors create growth. It is about investment in research that leads to innovation. It is also about welfare systems that give all citizens a chance to educate themselves and pursue their dreams and that give women the opportunity to work after childbirth. But, my friends, it is also about institutional conditions for running a business. Several international studies show that companies in Sweden have good conditions and framework conditions for operating companies. Forbes believes that Sweden is one of the best countries in the world to do business in. For years, Sweden has subscribed to top ten positions in various competitiveness rankings, such as the OECD index. In this context, the Competition Authority is very important. In short, the Competition Authority is important for Swedish competitiveness. What is it that the Competition Authority does? What is hidden behind the wording that the Competition Authority is the competition authority responsible for the enforcement of the competition rules? The agency itself writes that our task in the field of competition is to pay particular attention to the fight against cartels and to intervene against... operators who abuse their dominant position in the market. ..................................................... Many of us remember the Swedish Competition Authority's dawn raids on several construction companies in 2001, which rolled up one of the largest cartels in Swedish history. Then it was about the asphalt business. It all ended up with the Competition Authority calling for fines, or with correct terms for damages to competition, of over 1 billion. Madam President, I would like We know that competition pushes prices, increases quality and broadens the supply of goods and services. Working markets are good for both citizens and businesses. In short, the Competition Authority is an important cog in the institutional conditions for Swedish competitiveness. Madam President, I would like What were the conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office in the report? The Swedish National Audit Office makes the following recommendations: When I read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, it seems like reasonable recommendations. I think they will improve the Competition Authority. Everyone who reads the government's answers also sees that the government broadly agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office and will follow the questions in the upcoming government dialogue. Good! End of story? No, not really. In several follow-up movements, several parties have pointed to the importance of the Competition Authority's effective functioning. That's good. We agree on that. On the other hand, we disagree on what leads to a more efficient competition agency. It is doubtful whether the recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office will be better implemented by the Government moving away from its regular model of government governance. There is little evidence of this, especially when the recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office are directed against the agency rather than against the government. Personally, I do not think I have ever read a report from the Swedish National Audit Office that has completely lacked recommendations. That's good, because everything can get better. But does this mean that, after each report, the government will take disruptive action in its governance? I am very doubtful about that. Of course, extraordinary measures may sometimes need to be taken, for example if an authority is in crisis. But is the Swedish National Auditor's report such that the criticism should be interpreted in this way? Hardly! We know that the Competition Authority has already made changes to the report. The remaining recommendations will be handled by the government in existing government dialogue. I cannot help thinking about whether this announcement is driven by anything other than a desire to improve Swedish competitiveness. But, someone says, you're voting with the government and against announcements just because you're a social democrat. Actually, that's not true. The Parliament shall exercise its control over the Government. In several votes, the Industry Committee has voted for announcements in full agreement – but only when it has been reasonable. I myself voted in the last parliamentary term for announcements to the government when I was on the Social Security Committee. On the other hand, Parliament must be careful not to vote through announcements that do not lead to reasonable measures. I believe that Parliament should vote in favour of announcements only when there is reasonable criticism and when the proposals in the announcement are reasonable. In short, Madam President, there are three strong arguments for voting against this announcement: That's why we're saying no to the announcement.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-675	Madam President, I would like Members! It is important that the Competition Authority has effective supervision. Well-functioning markets are a prerequisite for companies to grow, create new jobs and contribute to increased welfare. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Swedish Competition Authority's supervision and points to shortcomings in the agency's supervisory work. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Swedish Competition Authority use its resources more efficiently and that the Government Office should also make clearer requirements for evaluation of the Swedish Competition Authority's supervision. The Government continuously monitors the Swedish Competition Authority's performance and resource utilisation. Tools are as for all authorities' annual accounts, annual budget bases and governance via regulatory letters. The Government Office also has an annual public authority dialogue with the Director General of the Competition Authority, which aims to monitor the activities of the Competition Authority. After the Swedish National Audit Office's review, the Swedish Competition Authority has made changes in its operations. In addition, new EU-wide rules are in the process of being introduced to improve the Authority's ability to perform supervisory activities. I therefore support the joint reservation by Mr S. V. and Mr MP.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-679	Madam President, I would like The Competition Authority is an administrative authority for competition matters and has responsibility for the rules of competition. The Competition Authority is also the regulatory authority for public procurement. These are two extremely important elements in order to revitalize Sweden with a good business community and a wide range of actors. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed these two parts and submitted conclusions and recommendations to the Swedish Competition Authority in view of what they have seen. Each year, the Swedish Competition Authority receives a strong stream of tips on restrictions of competition and incorrect procurements, i.e. when municipalities, authorities and regions purchase goods, products and services from companies on offer. These should be handled on the basis that there is a notification from any party that the wrong company got the deal, that the assignment has been made on the wrong basis, that the assignment did not go out on an advertisement and so on. The Swedish Competition Authority is working on a priority policy that they themselves have developed and which sets out the factors that the work should take into account when setting priorities. Everyone, i.e. companies, municipalities, regions, authorities and consumers, benefits greatly from the effectiveness of supervision. Therefore, the Swedish National Audit Office has looked at the priorities chosen by the Swedish Competition Authority in the policy and what is actually done and why. The questions that the Swedish National Audit Office has asked are: The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the results of the audit show shortcomings in the Swedish Competition Authority's supervisory work, both in the priority policy and in internal control. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the use of resources by the Swedish Competition Authority can be improved. The recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office are: 中 to improve internal control in the supervisory activities of the Authority 中 formalising the feedback to the policy of prioritization from the supervisory work 中 that the work evaluates the current allocation of resources between the two tasks assigned to it by competition and procurement supervision so that it becomes effective according to mandates and resources. The Swedish National Audit Office is aimed at the Government and says that there may be reasons for the Government to monitor how the administrative grant is distributed internally and to require an evaluation of the Swedish Competition Authority's supervision. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office urges the Government to ensure and monitor that measures are taken at the Swedish Competition Authority. The Government responds to the findings that it intends to monitor the performance and use of resources of the Authority in the context of government governance and annual meetings. What we would like to see is systematic monitoring, evaluation and governance as basic foundations. This is essential for us to have healthy business in our country. The Competition Authority is advising, in order for things to go right, while also stopping unhealthy business. The agency's mission is extremely important for the functioning of the business community, as insufficient supervision risks hindering free, efficient and fair competition in Swedish markets. This would damage the conditions for Swedish business. The fact that the Competition Authority has the confidence of companies and the public is a prerequisite for the impact of competition rules. For example, ineffective competition control may allow companies to charge over-prices through coordination and abuse of dominant positions. It occurs if there is exclusion so that only one or few companies remain and it becomes so-called cartel formation. Inefficient procurement supervision increases the risk of incorrect public procurement. Worse competition leads to higher prices for goods and services and ultimately to a worse functioning economy. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the Swedish Competition Authority's supervisory activities. It must be taken very seriously. As I said, inadequate supervision risks hindering free, efficient and fair competition in Swedish markets. This in turn risks damaging the conditions for Swedish business. Controlling, monitoring and evaluating the activities of the Swedish Competition Authority must therefore be a priority task for the Government. The Government should therefore be tasked with ensuring effective competition supervision based on the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations and reporting back conclusions and measures taken to the Riksdag. A first feedback should take place within the current year. The agency has an important role for Sweden to continue to grow. Not least after this crisis with the so-called new normal, the conditions and opportunities of companies will be crucial for the country's success in the future. Business-friendly policies are needed, and there is a favourable climate. Municipalities, regions and authorities also need to buy the right products and services at the right price and use. Therefore, the Competition Authority is an important player with its mission in terms of market function. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and, therefore, the announcement to the government.
i-P5eXc795pumX7Un7gnx6em	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Hammar Johnsson, for an exciting speech! We agree on the importance of Sweden's competitiveness. In the announcement, the Moderates, among other things, propose that the government take action and reconnect. As I stated in my speech, the government has replied that the ongoing government dialogue will follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office. Since it is not the government's governance that has been criticised by the Swedish National Audit Office, I wonder whether it is really reasonable to demand that the government have a different government dialogue and a different authority control than the usual one. My question to the honourable Member is simply: what kind of measures do the Moderates envisage leading to better governance of the Competition Authority?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-700	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mathias Tegnér! Yes, this is absolutely different. It is a matter of management and governance, and it is the government that is responsible for the management and control of the authorities. But when you say to follow up, it doesn't feel enough. It is therefore an authority that has a great deal of responsibility for competition supervision, which affects the whole of industry and the market. Not least when we get out of the crisis, we should do good business the right way. The criticism is that the work should improve internal control in the agency's supervisory activities, formalise feedback to the priority policy from the supervisory work and evaluate the current allocation of resources between the two tasks of the work. That's what the agency's supposed to do internally. But we also want it to happen. You shouldn't just follow the question and advance your positions. We want the Competition Authority to really ensure that it maintains and works on competition supervision and that it can receive the views that come in, to ensure that there are not a lot of errors going on in the business world. In addition, it is important to ensure that municipalities, regions and authorities do their part, so that they also get good products and services. That is the function of the whole business community. The Competition Authority is a supervisory authority and an authority that will help. Over the years, it has been asked to be given the task of doing what is within the legal part. I would therefore like to ask a question back to Mathias Tegnér: Do the Social Democrats also think it is a good idea that the Competition Authority should be given a larger mandate?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-705	Madam President, I would like Basically, as I said, competitiveness issues are extremely important. The Competition Authority has two extremely important tasks. It is important to ensure that competition in Sweden works but also that public procurement works properly. What I think is important when we talk about reports from the Swedish National Audit Office is that they should be taken seriously. The Swedish National Audit has an important role to play. The government must take the reports seriously. The Riksdag must also act responsibly, precisely in order for the Swedish National Audit Office to have the important role it has in our democratic system. I know that there has never been a report from the Swedish National Audit Office that has not made any recommendations. It's basically good, because nothing is perfect. Everything can be improved. Everything can evolve. Then it is also important that we here in the Swedish Parliament handle the reports in a reasonable manner. It brings me back to the questions I asked. Am I wrong? Are there reports from the Swedish National Audit Office that have not made any recommendations? If I am right, which I think I have, when it comes to the fact that there are always recommendations in the Swedish National Audit Office's reports, is it reasonable that there should always be announcements to the government after there has been a report from the Swedish National Audit Office? I have a third question. If this is not a political game, why is it that the five parties behind the announcement focus on leadership and governance, even though the Swedish National Audit Office has not criticised the government's leadership and governance? What is it, more precisely, that one wants the government to do in its government control, beyond the normal way of governing authorities?
i-64a6490e68af15a3-710	Madam President, I would like Mathias Tegnér returns to our evaluations of the Swedish National Audit Office's reports. There are usually improvements to be made. It is quite natural, as the honourable Member says. If there are no improvements to be made, you can honestly think about what is wrong. However, announcements do not always come. It happens, and it may happen quite often. But it doesn't happen every time. Sometimes you're happy with what's going on. In this case, we think it is serious that there has been an internal policy of its own and that the issues are not addressed and that the tasks are effectively solved. That is the effectiveness that needs to be overcome, so that you do the right things for the money that the government is handing over to the authority to maintain the function of authority. That is why we want systematic reporting to take place. We have stressed this issue in this case. You can think of who will decide when it is reasonable or not. We have made our reasonable assessment and now believe that the government should return to Parliament with a response to this.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-713	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. In the letter, the Government reports its assessment of the conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the supervision of the Swedish Competition Authority – conditions for efficient use of resources. The Competition Authority serves a vital purpose in its efforts to achieve a fully functioning market without any distortion of competition. This is a work in which the Swedish Democrats see the value and strive to facilitate. For this reason, we were concerned that last autumn the Government did not take advantage of the budget demand that the Swedish Competition Authority addressed to the Government for the years 2020– 2022. In its budget inquiry to the Government, the Competition Authority analysed the need to expand its anti-corruption work. The Authority pointed out that it increasingly suspected corruption in its supervisory activities in all types of cases. Nevertheless, the funds were not allocated. However, this request and its justification formed the basis for the fact that the Swedish Democrats increased the grant to the Swedish Competition Authority in their budget option. But enough about this. The Swedish National Audit Office's report addresses its observations and recommendations mainly to the Swedish Competition Authority, which the Government also notes. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office also points out the following: ..................................................... This, said the Swedish Democrats, together with a majority in the committee, does not respond satisfactorily to the government. The Government certainly states that the Swedish Competition Authority's performance and use of resources are continuously monitored through the Authority's annual report and the annual public authority dialogue. This should, of course, be something that the National Audit Office is already aware of. To continue in the same track can therefore hardly be enough to meet the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation. Madam President, I would like In view of this, it is gratifying that a majority in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and later this afternoon in this Chamber, lands in directing an announcement to the Government that it will ensure and follow up that measures are taken at the Swedish Competition Authority to achieve effective competition supervision based on the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office and – and this should not be underestimated – that the Government shall report back to the Riksdag on measures and conclusions taken.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-719	Madam President, I would like The report by the Industry Committee on the report on the supervision of the Competition Authority is what we are discussing today. I support the committee's proposal to announce to the government that it will ensure and monitor that measures are taken by the Competition Authority for the proper functioning of competition supervision. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the activities and analysed the Swedish Competition Authority's ability to use resources efficiently in its supervisory activities, focusing on priority policy and supervisory processes. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that there are shortcomings in the Swedish Competition Authority's supervisory work linked to the priority policy and also to the Swedish Competition Authority's internal control. In its review, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish Competition Authority's resource utilisation can be improved and made more efficient. There are three horizontal recommendations to the Competition Authority: 中 improving internal control 中 formalize the feedback assess whether the current allocation of resources between competition and procurement supervision is appropriate. This has also been stated by previous speakers. Madam President, I would like I read the report with interest, and we in the Center Party decided to write a follow-up motion because there is simply an improvement potential. The functioning of competition supervision is of vital importance for the efficiency of the economy, and this concerns both public and private activities. Deficiencies in the supervision and monitoring of the functioning of markets lead to distortions of competition and procurement, which in turn have a negative impact on both companies and the public sector. In this way, the Government must translate the Swedish National Audit Office's criticisms and recommendations by ensuring better competition and procurement supervision in its governance of the Authority. Controlling, monitoring and evaluating the activities of the Swedish Competition Authority must therefore be a priority measure for the Government. We see that the government needs to do more in this area. During my time as local councillor, Madam President, I quite often encountered this kind of discussion – both in dialogues with companies and when the Competition Authority exercised supervision in my municipality and had views. It was absolutely right, and they did it well and with very great frenzy. But I also felt somewhere that there was a randomness in their actions. I did not put much effort into it then, but as I read the report I see a connection with my previous experiences. Finally, the Competition Authority and the Government's management and control of its activities may seem to be a secondary issue in these times of crisis. But right here and now we are all working – opposition, government, authorities, the whole country – to get an economy in balance again. It will take time, and hard work will be required. In this context, better competition supervision is a small but still very important part of the puzzle to build Sweden's competitiveness and strength again.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-730	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are pleased that the committee has today taken a position to proceed with the recommendations and proposals that the review report points to regarding the supervision of the Competition Authority and the conditions for efficient use of resources. The supervision of the Competition Authority is of great importance for the activities of both private and public operators. Effectiveness is essential. What the Swedish National Audit Office has investigated is whether the Swedish Competition Authority's priority policy contributes to effective supervision, and whether the Swedish Competition Authority's internal control provides the conditions for effective supervision in terms of both competition supervision and procurement supervision. Several shortcomings have now been identified in the supervisory work linked to both the priority policy and internal control. In 2018, the Competition Authority received 544 complaints, tips and requests from the public for competition supervision, and 509 cases were received for the procurement supervision. The Competition Authority then has to give the best priority between cases, and for this reason there is a priority policy that should provide support. The review here considers that the contribution of the priority policy to effective supervision cannot be demonstrated, which is described as problematic when cases are to be prioritised uniformly. Among other things, the application of the policy in documentation is considered inconsistent, and in case of reconciliations of investigations, not least in the field of competition enforcement, the policy is hardly ever applied. Furthermore, it is stated that the policy does not contain all the factors relevant to the Competition Authority. In addition to the priorities between and within cases, priority needs to be given to competition control and procurement supervision. The distribution of resources in between must be described as uneven. No explanation as to why the distribution looks as it does has been found in the review. The review also points to shortcomings in the organisation and implementation of internal supervisory controls. These deficiencies concern both the governance and control of day-to-day work and the structure of the supervisory organisation. The conditions for prioritization decisions, and hence the efficiency of supervisory work, are deteriorating as a result. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that the Swedish Competition Authority's use of resources can be much better. Following the observations made, the Swedish National Audit Office makes a number of recommendations to the Swedish Competition Authority, including improving internal control, formalising feedback from the supervisory work to the priority policy and evaluating the current allocation of resources. Linked to this, examples of what this should include are given. In its letter, the Government refers to the annual public authority dialogue and intends to follow up how the audit's observations and recommendations are dealt with by the Competition Authority. Given the shortcomings that have emerged, it is good that the Riksdag is now making an announcement that ineffective and inadequate competition supervision risks counteracting free, efficient and fair competition in Swedish markets, which in turn may impair Swedish business. The government must take the Swedish National Audit Office's review seriously. We regard the government's response to the measures as inadequate and support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-64a6490e68af15a3-738	Madam President, I would like Let me give you a little reminder of what the Swedish Competition Authority is working on. The task of the Competition Authority is to promote effective competition in private and public activities for the benefit of consumers as well as efficient public procurement for the benefit of public and market actors. What we are debating today is the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Swedish Competition Authority. The overall purpose of the Swedish National Audit Office's review has been to assess the Swedish Competition Authority's ability to use resources efficiently in its supervisory activities. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office states that the results of the review show serious shortcomings in the Swedish Competition Authority's supervisory work and have reconnected with several recommendations. Liberals believe that the Government must take the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the Swedish Competition Authority's supervisory activities very seriously. Insufficient supervision risks hindering free, efficient and fair competition in Swedish markets, which in turn risks damaging the conditions for Swedish industry. Controlling, monitoring and evaluating the activities of the Competition Authority must therefore be a priority for the Government. Therefore, I am pleased that today we will address an announcement to the Government to ensure and follow up that measures are taken at the Competition Authority to ensure that effective competition supervision is achieved on the basis of the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. We also look forward to the government reporting back on measures and conclusions taken to the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like It is of the utmost importance that the Government systematically follows up and evaluates the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to the Swedish Competition Authority. The agency has an important mission, and the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations must be taken very seriously. I support the committee's proposal.
