i-2d61f04e66348f69-0	Mr President, I would like to Today's party leader debate begins in a moment when the whole of Sweden and the surrounding world are waiting for the prosecutor and police to hold a press conference regarding the investigation of the murder of Olof Palme. I think everyone's thoughts today are with Olof Palme's family. I also believe that many are back at the moment when they learned that Sweden's Prime Minister has been murdered, back to the day when our country changed and back in the long years when our country had to live with unanswered questions and a traumatic wound that could not therefore heal. Mr President, I would like to Although it is strange, I think it still feels nice to discuss Sweden's future today. The day will be marked by Olof Palme, and somehow this debate will also be a way of remembering not only his tragic death but also his life, a life marked by a strong will and a very hard work to improve our country. This party leader debate I hope can go in the same spirit: the desire to improve Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Our country is now undergoing a historic test because of the Corona crisis. We've encountered a whole new virus. All of Sweden has done everything to save as many people's lives, health and jobs as possible. During the spring, we have seen our country's real strengths: the strength of cohesion – how associations and regions have gathered together and how neighbours have helped each other and shown that no one in Sweden is alone in a crisis, the strength that we kept schools open, that we flattened the curve over the sick so that the care could cope with the situation and that we saved hundreds of thousands of jobs by letting the state take part of the wage cost and the strength that so many people have taken responsibility for themselves and their fellows, but also for health care and society. I would also like to say that Swedish democracy has proved its best. Partisan political conflicts have been sidelined, and their eyes have been lifted. Every Member of the Swedish Parliament has focused on what is best for our country. We have united in the fight to save lives, health and jobs, and this is a strength to be proud of. The political debate on the Corona is necessary and important, but I would like to remind you quietly that the crisis is far from over. We don't have a complete conclusion today. We need to continue to cooperate for Sweden's sake. Mr President, I would like to During the spring, we have also seen serious weaknesses. There are far too many who have died in our retirement homes, and each death is a sorrow, of course, primarily for family, loved ones, but also for the whole of society. Besides, we should have tried more by now. The historic crisis that we are going through today also creates historic opportunities for the future. In addition to the concrete and serious weaknesses I mentioned, a major question has been raised, namely whether we have organised our country in the best possible way. My answer is that changes need to be made. Sweden needs to be upgraded. I believe that most people in our country recognise that there are too few employees in care for the elderly and that these employees do not have good enough working conditions. Health care has been able to cope with the crisis thanks to its great capacity for change and knowledge, but it has been very tough. I think most people feel a strong conviction that Sweden's resources and focus now needs to be put on welfare. It's care for the elderly, health care and school. For a long time, large and important parts of our country have been left aside for short-term profits, which have had to govern too much. This has been the case for a long time, under various governments. And during the crisis we have really seen how wrong it was to abolish emergency stocks and how dangerous it is if health care and care for the elderly are not given serious priority. Therefore, Mr President, Sweden needs to learn from the crisis, in the small and the large. Now that we are going to choose which direction our country is going to take after the crisis and when the Swedish Parliament is going to make laws and decide on the state's budget in the future, we need to do so in order to equip Sweden strongly, so that every person in our country is given the opportunity to become their best self. Sweden's focus needs to be on the person who needs support from the home care service when it comes to walking or cleaning, on the man who has a job to do just that, on the working conditions of the woman who works as a nurse and on the everyday life of the teacher who every day in the classroom teaches the world's history to his students but also knows that the students' future is too much governed by the parents' income. We are going through a historic crisis, and before us we have an almost equally historic path, a path where I see that we need to choose to create equal care throughout Sweden, build an equal country where parents' income does not determine children's opportunities, carry out a climate shift and seriously put welfare first – the welfare of all the people who carry Sweden, which is Sweden. This will be expensive and require the work of many people. A lot of will is needed, but it will be worth every penny and every effort. Since I became Prime Minister in October 2014, we have put welfare first, and we have made historical efforts. During the last term of office, approximately 100 000 people were employed in welfare. I am very aware that this is not enough, and so we need to continue along this path. After this crisis, I want to believe that more parties want to put prosperity first in the tough priorities that come after all. Every person in Sweden sees this as necessary. We can gather around it. I hope that all of us in the Swedish parliament and government together are ready to really upgrade Swedish welfare. In this way, this test during this tough spring will lead to Sweden becoming a stronger country, afterwards.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-14	Mr President, I would like to Collaborate, push, clarity – three concepts that have guided me and my party through the crisis. Cooperation in crisis – cooperation between parliament and government, between government and opposition, and between national and local levels. You put other things aside and focus, for the good of the country. The Moderates have pushed the government. We have pushed for greater and faster support for jobs and businesses, pushed ahead to avoid bankruptcies and to allow more companies to overwinter during this harsh time. We have gathered majorities in Parliament to do more. We've pushed too many more tests, and we've been nagging blue for three months to make something happen, because measuring is knowing. Now there's finally a plan for testing, and that's good. But plans and strategies and collaboration and coordination have been seen to lead. Now is the time to get things done, not time for more press conferences. We have pushed to get started with a Corona Commission as soon as possible. The government's draft contains much that is good, but one thing is clear: the Commission's work must not be politicised, and the conclusions must not be postponed until after the 2022 elections. Crisises also require clarity about exactly who is responsible for exactly what. And to be honest, everyone knows that this is not the very best branch of this government. The confusion in the test issue is one example. The lack of clarity about protective equipment and medicinal products are two others. Who's driving? That's what you usually ask. The lack of clarity was almost overexplicit when the Prime Minister last week felt compelled to point out that it is the government that leads Sweden and that it is he who leads the government. Now we know. We Moderates will continue to help, and the Riksdag has probably never been as important in modern times as it is right now. Mr President, I would like to We all hope the worst is over. But the truth is, no one knows-- not us and not some in other countries. So let us be humble about it. More will become ill, more will lose their lives and more must be done to stop the infection. The leave mirages, but this will not be an ordinary summer. All students who have lost their summer job know that before it even got started. The 130 000 people who have already been out of work know that. And every company that has gone bankrupt knows that. I know what the first job means, like my own at Expert Foto in Eskilstuna. Everyone remembers their first job. Very few actually have it left. Almost no one would want to have been without it. It is often the step into the adult world. But it also means independence and own money. For those who are new in our country is the best way into Swedish society and into the Swedish language. In the wake of the crisis, Sweden will face higher unemployment – according to the CI probably the highest unemployment rate since the Second World War. It will not be easy, but we must get through this crisis also successfully. During a crisis a long time ago, the interest rate was 500 per cent. In 1992, 85 companies went bankrupt every working day. By the end of the year, 21,000 companies had ended. These were sad times for Sweden. But a lot finally turned out very well, because we took advantage of the crisis's insights and we took hold of our problems. That is exactly what we need to do again – roll up the sleeves, face the problems, make the decisions and implement them. Sweden had problems even before the coronapandemine. We had the lowest per capita growth in the EU as a whole. Since Stefan Löfven took office, 27 out of 28 EU countries have experienced lower unemployment – all except Sweden. Tens of thousands of people – many born outside Europe – are at risk of permanent exclusion. Soon half a million people will be unemployed. Do not underestimate these problems. Just because we've gotten used to them doesn't mean they're natural. Just because it's been this long doesn't mean it has to be like this in the future. Sweden could do well. But then we must once again tackle our problems and seize our opportunities, in that order. First of all, Sweden must re-establish the work line. In our country, people work and do the right thing – young and older, women and men. It should be easy to get in and easy to stay, and it should pay better to work than to live on benefits. Secondly, after a crisis, temporary measures must be rolled back. That is why they are called crisis measures. So do not devalue the meaning of crisis. You do things you don't do. You give money to companies, you raise the unemployment fund and you put the economy in a state of emergency. Thirdly, therefore, we must be careful with taxpayers' money so that higher subsidies do not lead to longer unemployment. And our urgent support for companies should not be like the industrial policy of the 1970s. Fourthly, we must restore security and security. In our country, both girls and boys should dare to go home themselves from training. The shootings and blasts of gang crime do not belong in Sweden. Crime should not be an alternative career path for young boys in the suburbs. This is four steps towards a freer and safer country: a country that is gradually getting better, not worse, safer, not insecure, safer, not insecure, freer for all, not more free for many. If we do what we have to do, we can be exactly what we want. This hopefulness, Sweden's historically proven power and ability to soberly see problems and open-mindedly find solutions, I carry with me as we take on the trials ahead of us.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-32	Mr President, I would like to It has been a very different spring year and a very different parliamentary year, and it will be a very different summer. Behind all the tragedy and suffering that has been brought to light in every person's everyday life of this time is a reality that is also being reminded, a parallel reality where mortal violence is now at higher levels than it has been for several years. Crime hasn't taken a break. The criminal gangs are not in on the idea that together we will fight our way through this crisis. On the contrary, they take advantage of the opportunity and strike when people are at their most vulnerable. At the same low level, extremists disguised as activists are attacking blue-light personnel, breaking up shops and robbing families with children of their possessions. They encourage violence, and they cynically and systematically attack innocent people. These thugs, Mr President, should not, and certainly not with the good memory of the state, be allowed to live in large crowds in urban areas. The right place for this organized mob is in a remote gravel pit or something like that or behind bars. Their behaviour is, in any case, reprehensible. That is totally unacceptable. Mr President, I would like to The welfare that even before this virus struck was in crisis is now in an even worse position. We have staff who wear and walk on our knees, we have care that is drawn with obvious structural problems and resource needs and we have savings that are directed right at the core of welfare. Already estimated small businessmen have been put on additional burdens in the form of plastic bag tax and other symbolic nonsense. Unemployment is rising again, bankruptcies are exploding and people are in danger of being forced away from homes and homes. Above all, I would like to give a thought to all the elderly who are currently in a very difficult situation. After having fought a whole life and contributed to our common cause, one should not have to feel the fear that a great many feel today, a fear of being left to their fate when the crisis strikes. It is not a welfare country like Sweden. All health care personnel who have endured so much for so long, not least in recent months, and all health professionals who have worked hard in in inhumane conditions in recent months are heroes who deserve a safe and secure working environment and who deserve reasonable pay for the job they do. And not least, Mr President, they deserve our deepest respect. When Sweden's Prime Minister calls for a national collection, we are Swedish Democrats the first to raise their hand. But to call for participation must not mean that you are afraid of self-criticism and self-examination. Now that we are going to try to sum up after this corona spring in this House, we are going to be a part-book of sadness and tragedy. At least that's how I see it. At the same time, I get the impression that the Prime Minister is quite satisfied with his strategy to combat the virus, but also with the measures taken by the government to mitigate the negative effects on society. Something tells me, however, that those affected in various ways – all the relatives of the deceased, all the health workers who have worked day and night, the tens of thousands who have been in need of care but who have seen their operations postponed and all the entrepreneurs who are fighting for their survival – are not very happy with how we have handled this, Mr President. Sweden is basically a strong society and a strong nation. Our society has been built out of patience, diligence, and concern for one another. That will ultimately be crucial for how we will succeed in getting out of this crisis. However, it will not happen without sacrifice, and it will not happen without difficult political priorities We will be forced to set tough priorities, Mr President, and I strongly question whether the government we have today has the ability, will and power to make those priorities.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-40	Mr President, I would like to We're living in the middle of a pandemic. It has struck hard on people's lives and health, against our entire economy, against our companies and against people's jobs and security. We live in a time that forces our elders to refrain from hugging their grandchildren, which makes a partner unable to attend childbirth and forces relatives to say their last goodbyes via a telephone phone in a nurse's stretched hand. In Sweden alone, there are now 4,700 people who have died. It is a grief and tragedy for families, friends, colleagues and acquaintances, but it is also a sorrow and tragedy for the whole of Sweden as a country. Swedish healthcare has faced enormous challenges. The health workers work under heavy pressure to care for covid patients, a job that deserves all our respect. In the wake of the crisis, more and more entrepreneurs and employees have also seen their life's work and future plans are being wrecked. The Pandemin has made black figures red, not least for small businesses around Sweden, and it has hit industries such as the tourism industry particularly hard. Jobs are also affected when companies are affected. What we are experiencing now affects us all. It marks us as individuals and as a society, and it will take many years to recover from this. The virus has hit our lives and our health, and now we have to do everything we can to prevent it from hitting our faith in the future. In recent months, the Center Party has been the starting point for taking responsibility and showing action. We have been involved in getting historically large rescue packages in place to support companies and safeguard jobs. We have contributed more money to municipalities and regions and invested in Swedish infrastructure. But we have also pointed out how the isolation of older people can be reduced and how we should face the mental illness that follows in the pandemic. We have been strongly critical of the fact that elderly people living in special housing have not been given access to healthcare. However, more needs to be done in order to move forward in the work to stop the spread of infection and thus also to be able to take Sweden out of the crisis. There are areas where we as a country have failed and where we should have acted much more quickly. The widespread spread of infection and the high mortality rate in covid-19 in our retirement homes are two such areas, and our inability to put in place a broad and effective testing of our citizens is another. Now it is time for us to update the Swedish corona strategy. Start testing everyone with symptoms! That's the only way we can resume active infection detection and thereby break infection chains. Pressing down the infection is the single most important thing we can do now, both in terms of saving lives and in terms of protecting businesses and jobs. It is also important that our Swedish strategy can create confidence in our neighbouring countries. It is absolutely crucial for Sweden as a small, export-dependent country. However, we must also continue work to reduce the isolation of older people and to address the mental ill-health that follows in the wake of the crisis. We need to prepare ourselves so that all those who have been removed from the priority because of the coronapandemy can get their care, and we need to quickly address the shortcomings in the care of the elderly that have become so incredibly evident during this crisis. We in the Center Party will continue to push for change where we see that it is needed. We will continue to be a strong voice for a path of reason based on reality. There are many problems and challenges left to solve before Sweden has come through this crisis together. Responsibility for this rests heavily on the government, and we expect the government to take that responsibility. We know that this is far from easy work. It will require ultimate leadership, both individually and collectively, and it will take time. But just as the light of summer now reminds us that there is something other than the long darkness of winter, we must remind ourselves that there will come a day when we will hug Grandma and Grandpa again. With common forces we will get through this too, Mr President.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Crises are testing us. They test us as humans, and they test us as a society: Are we helping each other, or are we allowing each one to do the best it can? I think that in the midst of death and the misery of the Corona crisis we have seen so much concern and cohesion in Sweden. One of the news that touched me the most was when the health care services in Stockholm called for staff to go back to health care and work with the corona infected – and 5,000 people signed up in a few hours. It's my Sweden! It is Sweden's solidarity, which stands together. We know you're working hard right now. Despite the beautiful early summer out there, you work in hospitals. In intensive care departments you work 10-hour sessions and 60-hour weeks, week after week. At our retirement homes, where sick leave rates have been high, you sometimes work with fear of getting infected yourself or accidentally infecting one of the elderly – what absolutely must not happen. The crisis has thus shown much of the best in Sweden, but there are also clear pictures of how we have become weaker as a society – how we do not manage things we should. Most clearly, it is of course within the care of the elderly, and it is not because of those who work and work there, but because they have not been given the right conditions to do the job. They have not been given the right conditions in terms of everything from basic equipment to actually having an education that makes them know what to do. It is decades of cutbacks and privatisations, precarious employment and understaffing that make this so difficult in essence, and there is a fundamental lesson to be learned here: there must be an end to that policy. Well-being must take precedence over reduced taxes. Now we have the opportunity to choose another way – a better way – where those in the middle of the storm's eye in health care and care for the elderly actually get better. It shouldn't just be words. You should be able to register for sick leave, and if you have a permanent job, you can do it. You should dare to say it when someone tells you to go in and work without protective equipment: No, we should wear protective equipment! You should have so many colleagues that it is not twenty different people who go home to an elderly person with home help, but it should be four or five that the older one recognizes and is safe with. We can do that together. It is time to reshape policy and equip elderly care and health care. It is also time to get small businesses out of the crisis so that they can make it to new orders and orders. It is time to rebuild civil defence, and it is time to build emergency stocks – to learn from what has happened. The crisis shows that we need a strong society. To the unemployed, it is clear that it is society that is to be trusted. It is also clear to companies. Today it is society – the state – you have to trust. Even the right does not call for the right's solutions when there is a crisis. Now they call for the state and for society. But let us be clear: this change of course does not allow for reduced taxes, but allows for investments and robustness in the future. It gives room for a fairer Sweden where we upgrade health care and where we make sure that things actually work. The same applies to the re-launch of the economy. We must do it together; it will not fix itself. The information before us is clear. We are going to build out the narrowness that has been so devastating to the spread of the disease. We will ensure that more people are employed in welfare – also in school and education, not only in care for the elderly and in health care. We are going to make a green restart where we reduce greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time building our competitiveness and economy. We're going to build new main tracks in the railroad. We're going to renovate public transport. We will ensure that the major industries can switch and become the world leader in no longer emitting so much greenhouse gases. We're going to build our power grid. We will build a more modern and better Sweden. We can only do this together, Mr President. This will not be fixed by the market. We can only do this if we put equality and climate before tax cuts for the rich.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-57	Mr President, I would like to I am proud of the solidarity that is displayed every day with older people and at risk groups and all that health professionals have sacrificed and continue to sacrifice for their neighbour's health. The community and humanity shown by the Swedish people regardless of background or skin colour is worthy of praise. The Corona crisis has shaken the world, demonstrated the vulnerability of welfare systems, demolished trade and economy, exposed Chinese imperialism and exposed the shortcomings in Swedish preparedness. In time, we will learn many lessons from what has happened, but we can draw a conclusion right now: With the present government, when we face a crisis, Sweden will always be without leadership. During the migration crisis, when the care queues doubled and now under the coronapdemin, we have been unleaded. In a crisis, a leader had to step forward, but Stefan Löfven stepped back. The government's inaction has worried us during this spring. At the first meeting we had with the government, we raised the need for national coordination on health care resources, ventilators and protective equipment, and we were surprised that the government had not taken such initiatives. On 19 March, we called for a Corona Commission to find out, among other things, why holidaymakers who came in via Arlanda had to step straight out into the workplace and into society. On the same day, we proposed to the government that a type of national health general be appointed with a mandate to reallocate health resources if necessary. In the regular discussions that took place with the party leaders, and for which we have shown great appreciation, we have repeatedly asked the government to present the evidence on which it claimed it was based its political conclusions. We have wanted to understand the government's strategy and why it differs so widely from that of the outside world, but we have not received an answer. We have had good talks with the government about economic crisis measures and welfare efforts. The government acted quickly to allow lay-offs and to facilitate economic for the regions – I would like to emphasise that very much. But when it comes to the disease control strategy, it has been directly dismissive. We have had a great humility in that we do not know everything about this virus and about virus proliferation in general and that we have found ourselves in a situation where we have to act collectively, but we have not wanted to renounce our responsibilities. The government has often said it wants to listen to the expertise, but rather than listening, it seems that in practice it has delegated its entire political responsibility to the Public Health Authority. This has been done without taking into account that the Public Health Agency may be experts in the spread of infection, but they are not experts in economics, on preparedness or on what the practical conditions actually look like in elderly care and medical care. We have several times during this spring hoped that Stefan Löfven would step forward. We have urged him to do so and declared that he should be the commander and that we are prepared to back him up. We have been constructive, and we have said that we have wanted to hook arms. When, in this House, a few weeks ago, I again asked the Prime Minister to provide us with information on the strategy, he dismissed it as time-consuming seminars. Then our patience disappeared. With open eyes, the government chose a corona strategy with a higher degree of infection spread and focus on protecting risk groups. The political responsibility for pursuing the strategy in 21 regions and 290 different municipalities was then put in place. When the opposition wants transparency about the wisdom of this choice, it is despicably referred to as seminary activities. Now Sweden needs to get started with extensive tests and contamination detection, so that we can put an end to the spread of the disease. We need to support our hardworking and struggling health workers so that in the autumn they do not go straight into the wall. They need a crisis package of their own – otherwise we will never be able to pick up the huge health debt that has now been built up. Over 50 000 operations have been postponed during the Corona crisis. Women with diagnosed breast cancer can no longer wait. We also need to prepare for a recovery for the Swedish economy, so that families affected by unemployment and those who have been laid off can once again feel secure and confident in the future. We'll get through this together.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-69	Mr President, I would like to In the ongoing coronap pandemic, our world is changing. Decades of democratic, social and libertarian victories risk being lost in the path of infection. Millions of people's opportunities are being squeezed back, and the finality may increase. Sweden, which exports much of what our companies and employees create, is particularly affected by shut down international trade and by broken trust. Therefore, we must always look outwards but have Sweden in the centre. We see how authoritarian forces are now strengthening their positions. Developments during the current administration in the United States are dismaying. The war against facts, the incitement to journalists and hate speech threaten democracy itself. All of this is happening against the backdrop of an ostensible mass unemployment, widespread drug abuse and even too current racism. In China, where the Corona virus originates, we see the innate inability of the dictatorship. The intense political repression has effectively robbed billions of people of their human rights, far beyond the state's own borders. China's abuse of minorities and close neighbours such as Hong Kong and Taiwan must be condemned. This illiberal development leads away from freedom and away from prosperity. Conservative, nationalist and socialist politicians are often united in building their own straw dolls of liberal society. We see respect for the principles of the rule of law reaching new minimum levels. To meet these challenging forces, we need an open and free mind. People's concerns about Sweden must of course be taken seriously, but standing up for democracy, minority rights, equality and freedom of expression is the decent way. With this, together with a strong market economy, a focus on the core tasks of the welfare state and a progressive environmental policy, we are securing our common future. Liberal society is and remains the most important task of the 2020s. Sweden depends on the outside world, and the outside world needs more strong democracies, not fewer. Mr President, I would like to The interaction between state, region and municipality leaves much to be desired. Despite the lack of leadership from the government, people, not least in health care, have done their utmost to save lives and reduce suffering with scarce resources – yes, the resources that have been available. The Commission that is about to be set up regarding the government's management of the Corona can begin by seeking answers in previous investigations about the Estonia, about the tsunami and about the major forest fires. Then you can start working down on issues of capacity, testing, protective equipment, decision times, elderly care and the unique soft shutdown of Sweden, which may have contributed to the high Swedish death rates. If Sweden and the world are to cope with the next pandemic, the acute climate threat or other disasters, more international cooperation is needed. In Sweden, we will do what we can to strengthen European but also Nordic cooperation. This serves Sweden, the world and Europe. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must be given an economic start. Entrepreneurship, research and public investment are the answer when we are experiencing historical slowdowns in the global economy. We have already seen how companies have been forced to make extensive notice, and unemployment is rising steeply. We Liberals have presented our focus from saving as much as possible of Swedish jobs and entrepreneurship to long-term investments in education, research, infrastructure, housing and safety. It is with a unified grip from the state that we can point out the way, create the conditions for new jobs and make sure that Sweden becomes the country of opportunity. If we are to meet the challenges we face, there is only one answer, Mr President. The answer is liberalism.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-82	Mr President, I would like to In just a few months, the Corona virus has turned our whole world upside down. The Pandemine has shown what a slender line the whole human race is balancing. We've pushed nature to the limit. Forests have been allowed to give in to agricultural land. Agricultural land has been allowed to give in to cities. Species that have never before met are pressed together on small surfaces and find their way into our society. They are stacked on high in cages, crowded in stables and fed full of antibiotics. That's where the next pandemic is born. The next antibiotic-resistant bacteria are born there. Antibiotic resistance is one of the greatest threats to humanity, according to WHO. But that's not the only threat. The climate crisis is just as real and even more serious. We currently have the highest levels of CO2 in 800 000 years on this planet. Extreme weather events, fires and hurricanes are already becoming commonplace. But do we have the strength to think that this is just the beginning? Can we think of a sea level rise of several meters? Can we imagine that if the tundra thaws new viruses are set free? Can we think of hundreds of millions of people fleeing floods, droughts and hunger? The only good thing the Corona crisis has brought is that scenarios such as these can no longer be waved away. They are not unrealistic; they are not nonsense. We are living in a very serious time when we need to choose another path, the path of solidarity. Since we were formed, the Green Party has been guided by three solidaritys: solidarity with animals and nature, solidarity with all people on earth and solidarity with future generations. And we are convinced that without these three solidaritys we can never build a safe world. Mr President, I would like to Since the coronapandemy hit us, I feel equally divided hope and despair. I feel despair over the way we have beaten our planet, despair over our inability to prioritise right in politics and a strong despair over all those who have lost their lives or those who have not been able to sit with their beloved parents or spouses in their last days. But I also feel a strong hope, because from this something much better can be born: a world where we prevent crises, listen to scientists and let what is right guide us, a world where we take care of each other and people can contribute and work together to build something better, a world where politics focuses on tomorrow's world and not tomorrow's election movement. That is why the recovery from the Corona crisis must be green. We have the chance to resolve several crises at the same time: the economic and climate crisis, but also the human crisis, the feeling that is so widespread in our society that something is wrong. Although we are richer than ever, we are more lonely and stressed than ever. We can build something better. We have the chance to kickstart the economy and create thousands of sustainable jobs by investing in a modern, co-human and green society, where we renovate our most vulnerable areas, where we build Sweden together with the modern high-speed trains of the future, where we protect valuable nature and allow sustainable tourism to flourish throughout the country, where we stop wasting and throwing and instead reuse and recycle, where we invest in ourselves and a healthier working life. Money isn't everything. Time, however, is all we have. It must not just disappear during a long working life of distaste and stress, so let us reconsider. Everyone should be able to develop at work but also have time to live. This is a unique opportunity to create a community of solidarity, humanity and sustainability. It's our best vaccine against the next crisis.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-93	Mr President, I would like to Prosecutors and police are currently holding a press conference on the investigation of the murder of Olof Palme. In view of that, I will call a press conference this afternoon. ( I would like to remind you that statements of opinion from the gallery are not permitted and call on the guards to show out the people who are disturbing immediately. The Prime Minister has to start all over again. ) Mr President, I would like to Prosecutors and police are currently holding their press conference on the investigation of the murder of Olof Palme. In view of that, I will call a press conference later this afternoon. Let's get back to the debate. Sweden is not through the Corona crisis yet – far, far from it. We lack a clear conclusion, despite the fact that some people express that this exists. There may be a second wave in the fall. There may be other crises or disasters that we need to deal with already this year. It can be a summer with both forest fires and floods, and then the Swedish state, the Swedish society, must have the strength to deal with that too. In the future, we need to do a lot of things, such as public investment, and we will manage a climate change transition and ensure that more people get to work. However, if there is anything that the Corona crisis has clearly demonstrated, it is that our country needs to renovate its welfare. Those of us who agree on this, as many parties now seem to be, also need to make sure that priority is given to care for the elderly, to health care and to school. It's a choice. Either we choose to seriously upgrade the welfare of Sweden now, or other things get to go ahead. Let us devote a moment to how much we have actually done this spring. Much has been done with good cooperation here in the Swedish parliament. What if we work a little hard and purposefully to equip our welfare? Think of the upbuilding that we can bring about in school, health care, and care for the elderly. Imagine how many more people can secure jobs in home care or health care. Imagine how much better it can be for those who have home care but who today are met by different staff every day. This is quite possible. I want Sweden to go that way.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-104	Mr President, I would like to I have very great respect for the fact that many Swedes right now have their thoughts somewhere else than right here, when the Palme prosecutor talks about his conclusions. Like everyone else, I remember exactly what I did when the death bid came. My thoughts today go to Olof Palme's three sons with families. It would mean a great deal if the national trauma could get a balance sheet today. But still: Exactly a year ago, the government cracked the work of the Defence Committee last time. They wanted the proposals, but they did not want to pay for them. Yesterday, the government broke the calls again. Instead of a broad agreement, it will be an agreement between the Social Democrats and the Green Party. My simple question is this: will the Social Democrats settle for a defence decision based solely on the support of the Green Party?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-107	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that when I was a party leader in opposition, the then government described defence as a special interest. Since we took office, however, in good and broad cooperation, we have made sure to increase Sweden's defence capabilities considerably. There have been substantial increases in the appropriations for defence so far. There are also further substantial increases ahead of us. A year ago, when the Defense Committee was ready, we wanted to make a proper investigation of this material together with the authorities to find out what it cost. Then it turned out that there was a deficit in funding. That's no way to deal with the defense. We will ensure that we present a bill that is supported by the Swedish Parliament, and we will ensure that Sweden's defence capabilities are strengthened.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-110	Mr President, I would like to Everyone knows that the Swedish defence has been dismantled for decades by several different governments. That responsibility case heavily on both sides of the block border. What this is all about is whether we should strengthen the defence on paper or actually strengthen the defence. What d is about is whether we should write long texts about what we want or whether we should pay for what we say we want. My reply was in January: I am prepared to compromise on many things except one thing. Never another unfunded defense decision. What the government is now about to do – the Social Democrats and the Green Party alone – is to make another decision on an unfunded defence decision. It will not impress anyone either in Sweden or abroad.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-114	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you that in the last parliamentary term 33 billion were added to the defence. That's 10 billion in level increase. Now, in the proposal that is on the table, in the proposal that we intend to work on in cooperation with C and L, there is another EUR 25 billion. These are historical additions to the defense. It was done because the defense needs to be strengthened. We need to increase our defence capabilities. We have agreed on this. But there is also another perspective that is probably so important. We're in the middle of a pandemic crisis. To say now, as the Moderates and Christian Democrats do, that we should promise a number of billions already in 2026 and 2027 is not sustainable. We follow the direction of the Defense Committee. We do what we always do. We intend to fulfill the planning for this period of defense, and we intend to replenish a great deal of resources. I think we can agree on this.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-118	Mr President, Prime Minister. Sweden has four times more deaths in covid-19 than our Nordic neighbours together. Of course, the large number of deaths in retirement homes is particularly sad to witness. According to both the government and the authorities, our entire strategy has been to protect risk groups. We haven't managed to do that. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Prime Minister is quite simple. What responsibility does Stefan Löfven feel he has as Prime Minister for the failure that this process must nevertheless be considered to be?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-120	Mr President, I would like to First of all, this consumer information seems to be needed: it is the government that leads the country, and I am the Prime Minister of the country. Then you always have a responsibility. But we must also look at what has actually happened. While we agreed at the beginning of the crisis that none of us is an epidemiologist, it seems that most of us have become so. We are not yet quite sure whether there is a difference in outbreaks between countries. Let us wait and see if this has been the case. Moreover, we have seen that hygiene practices have not worked in the care of the elderly. The Swedish municipalities and Regions themselves have reported that 60 percent follow them and that 40 percent do not. If 40% do not follow hygiene procedures, we have a problem. Therefore, through the National Board of Health and Welfare, we ensured that 139 000 people have now completed an education. Now the death toll is also falling into the care of the elderly. Every death is a tragedy and a grief. That's why we're doing something about it.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-124	Mr President, I would like to It's the government that leads the country. Stefan Löfven has pointed this out in speeches. But in action, I don't think that's what he's shown. During these months, the Prime Minister has been very careful to hide behind the expert authorities. It is not leading the country, Mr President. It's just hiding. I cannot interpret Stefan Lövven's words here as anything but that he is actually quite satisfied. We'll have to wait and see. I am absolutely sure, says Stefan Löfven, that Sweden has done everything right and that other countries have done everything wrong. I do not believe that this kind of ethnocentrism is a good way to start with a crisis like this one. Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister and the government should lead the country. Then start doing it for real, Stefan Löfven!
i-2d61f04e66348f69-127	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Jimmie Åkesson, I do not yet have all the answers to how this develops. Too many people have died in care for the elderly. There's no doubt about it. That's why we gave the National Board of Health and Welfare exactly that mission: Now make sure that people are trained in hygiene practices! That training has been completed. Then we can also see that the death toll is falling. The government has held 30 additional government meetings. We have taken decisions on some forty regulations and some sixty official missions. We have made a decision on twelve proposals, seven of which are additional financial proposals to ensure that we contribute SEK 245 billion, which is budget impacted. I hear there's 250 billion today. That's how you act. It is the government that must govern through resources. Are there resources or are there not resources in health care, in health care and in the authorities? It's our responsibility. I think that we have had a good collaboration in the Swedish Parliament to ensure that there will be resources in place. That's how I want to keep working. We're not through this yet. We must continue to cooperate.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-131	Mr President, I would like to Around the world, the pandemic is now under control. Some countries are not very successful in pushing back the virus, and other countries are more successful. Our assessment is that Sweden could be much more successful in repressing the infection, but that requires us to correct our strategy on a number of points. We are very pleased that the government has now listened to us, that is, that in a negotiation, also together with the Liberals, additional funds have been found to be able to do testing. But money will not solve the problem; something more is needed. It requires the government to step forward and show leadership. It needs to be clear that we are now changing strategies to combat the virus and that we are starting extensive testing, and that we are also prepared to break down and remove the bureaucratic obstacles that exist. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the government prepared to show this leadership, be clear with a new strategy and tear down the bureaucratic obstacles?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-136	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what's going on. That is why we must do so together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. That's where this job is done. They must have the resources to do so. We cannot move again, but we agree with them that this should be done. A month ago, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions told the government and the outside world: We do what the government wants us to do. We will now speed up the testing. That's what we said a month ago. Now we agree with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, and that is important. These are important decisions we make here, but the reality is out there. That's where it's supposed to happen, so we shouldn't have any unnecessary administration. The goal is, of course, that all those who have symptoms should be tested. That is what we agree on, and that is the phase we are going into now.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-140	Mr President, I would like to But what would now be needed is for the government to go forward and show leadership and make it clear that this is about a new strategy for how to fight the virus. This is important for three reasons. Firstly, it is important for our neighbours and trading partners so that they understand that Sweden is now heading on a new path. We need that as a small, export-dependent country. Secondly, it is important to Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, because they must know that the government has pointed out a new path and said that they want to work in a new way. Thirdly, this is an incredibly important signal to 10 million Swedes, who want to be involved in combating the virus. But then it must be a clear leadership on the part of the government. It is not a coincidence that we in Sweden are so far behind when it comes to testing. Much of it is about administration, bureaucracy and legislation. Here the government must go in and be clear and say: now we are taking a different path, and now together we are going to fight the virus.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-145	Mr President, I would like to To begin with: In fact, there are countries that have done far more testing than Sweden, and there are also countries that have done less testing than Sweden. We have no ambition other than that anyone who has symptoms should be able to be tested. This is clearly stated, and that is what cooperation with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions is all about. Let's make sure everyone with symptoms is tested. This means that you can find other ways at health centres but also in hospitals. It can be companies and private operators, and it must be done in such a way that resources are not drawn from health care. That is why it must be as simple as possible. We agree with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on this, and that is very much the case. That's what we're saying: anyone who has symptoms should be tested. Now the testing is gradually pushed upwards, and we see the increase. We'd love to see it earlier. But now it is being done, and then it is the strategy that applies.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-148	Mr President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! The Corona crisis shows how important it is to have secure jobs – that you can register for sick leave and that you can say no. At the same time, an investigation proposal is presented on behalf of the Government and on the basis of the Government's instructions. It is a proposal that destroys much of the security of employment in Sweden. Municipal representatives call it the worst in decades when it comes to attacks on the trade union movement. Swedish Engineers say that everyone gets probationary employment. It will be difficult to defend the one who has worn himself out at work. It will be difficult to defend the fact that anyone who has stood up to a bad boss is allowed to remain when there are redundancies. Yet the government does not withdraw the investigation but sends it out for a referral. It is actually a threat to the parties who are now going to sit down and negotiate – a threat to stand on the employer's side if the trade union movement does not itself undermine the employee's job security. The government should immediately withdraw this referral and this unbalanced proposal.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-153	Mr President, I would like to The investigation is an investigation, and it is an investigator who makes proposals. It is not the same as a bill, and it is not the same as a bill. But we have the order in the country that when an investigator has done a job, it is important that, for example, the parties can express what they think. That's good. I believe that the parties should first and foremost settle. That's what we want. We all want that in the January agreement, and that is the intention. That is also why I expressed the view that we cannot have a proposal that greatly shifts the balance between the social partners. This was part of the investigator's mandate: Keep the balance between the social partners! Be sure to avoid arbitrary dismissals! That's what we're gonna do. It is also part of the directive, and that is why we have spoken out on the investigator's proposal. It is good to send the investigation out for a referral and to have the parties negotiate. I believe and hope that they will come to an agreement. That's the best part.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-157	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister is starting to back off on the threat of destroying the employment security that exists in the January agreement. That's good. It is good to realise that what is being proposed is completely unreasonable. However, if you are serious about this completely unbalanced proposal, which destroys job security, never being implemented, you should not send it out for a referral either. What is actually happening now is that the parties are allowed to negotiate under threat. In practice, the government takes the employer's side and says: If you do not break the security of your members, we will do it for you after you have negotiated. This, of course, makes it difficult for the parties to settle at all. It also makes it difficult for trade unions to find a good solution for their millions of members, who now have much less job security. The government must withdraw the referral and say that this is a bad proposal that will never be implemented.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-161	Mr President, I would like to Since I have now made it clear that this is not the same as the Government's proposal, it does not pose a threat to the parties. Now let the parties negotiate! I hope and think they'll get along. If they do not, there will be a discussion this autumn about what a bill should look like. That's the deal. But Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party forget one thing, and that is what the majority in this Parliament actually looks like. Sjöstedt and the Left Party should take some time and analyse which proposals are on the table of the Riksdag. There are sports that include longer probationary periods and a much more flexible regulatory framework. It is also a question of restricting the right to take action. Here are suggestions to reintroduce lex Laval. It is these forces, Jonas Sjöstedt, that you should resist. But these forces choose Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party sometimes to cooperate with when it is necessary to press to the government. That's not good.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-164	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's health care is facing a perfect storm. The healthcare queues were long even before the Corona crisis. Summer always brings bigger problems with manning. Some 50 000 operations have so far been postponed during the crisis. Staff are under pressure to break limits in some cases. They must be relieved, and they must be given a holiday and a decent working environment once the holiday is over. Otherwise, a sick leave wave is waiting in Sweden. Among other things, we have proposed that healthcare professionals who have left care be given an extra financial incentive to return to care for some time and that their current employer be compensated for the release of their staff. Others have put forward some other proposals. I know that the Social Democrats want to protect welfare. My question is: can we agree that all parties need to meet to produce an emergency package for health professionals here and now? It may be too late this fall.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-168	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the discussion on how we strengthen health care is coming up, because there is something we need to do. That is why I raised it in my introduction. We need to get together now and look at how we strengthen welfare. The first thing I think we need to think seriously about is that for the foreseeable future we will not be able to afford any major dramatic tax cuts. We will need every income we have in the country to ensure that health care, care for the elderly and other things can be strengthened. Yes, I am prepared to discuss how we strengthen health care. But I also want to do so with the regions, because they are the ones who organise and do the health care. It is, of course, extremely important how they view this. This is where the knowledge is about how to plan for a vacation and ensure that employees get a reasonable rest. That's where you know how to put schedules. Our duty is to ensure that they have the resources to do so. Is there sufficient financial resources to train staff and so on? That is the reasoning I would like to take with SKR.
i-QxpLWjAsdMj88eAHtfUHrr	Mr President, I would like to At the end of May, Birgitta Ohlgren, Head of IVA at Sankt Göran's Hospital, was interviewed on Swedish Radio. She said this: Now you're getting tired and wasted, emotionally empty. We do not know how to cope with our loved ones at home, our family and our children. We now hear alarm reports from health care that about a third of the staff are showing symptoms of depression, anxiety, burnout and fatigue. We have to do more. We need to be able to look the medical staff in the eye. I am happy to do this with the regions, but sometimes it is also necessary to back up and point out with the whole hand when you see that it is not enough. Mr President, I would like to I interpret the Prime Minister's reply as being willing to call the parties together to discuss a crisis package for health professionals. We are prepared to put aside all the prestige of which proposals are the best, as long as they do. We are prepared to sit down and negotiate tonight, if necessary.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-176	Mr President, I would like to I'm prepared to discuss how health care will be provided with resources. At an early stage, we said to the Swedish Municipalities and Regions: You do not need to think about additional costs due to the Corona crisis. We'll cover every penny. We have added more than the tax loss in general state grants to Swedish Municipalities and Regions. We have also added compensation for public transport, which is now in a difficult situation. It is therefore not in the financial resources, and Sweden's Municipalities and Regions know that. Then there will be a practical approach: How should we ensure that it works when we are on our way out of the emergency – when it comes; where we are not yet – and how should we meet the need for care forward? We must resolve this together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. I am absolutely convinced that we will make it. We have a good dialogue. We have to make it. That is what should be done for the citizens of our country.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-178	Mr President, I would like to There's nothing as solemn as graduations and graduation days. School is an amazing tool. School is often the answer to almost all social problems, we think liberals. It is clear that the school is the answer to Sweden's future as a research nation in the front line for technological development. It is also the answer to unemployment. We know that, before the corona pandemic, very few unemployed people had approved upper secondary education. It is also the answer to exclusion and crime. But then I come to an important question. The quality of school is absolutely crucial, and here I have a question for the Prime Minister. In a PISA measurement that has been made, you seem to have screwed up a little bit with the numbers. It is right that some should be removed from the measurement, but it can't be very difficult to remove the right people and not mess with it. What does the Prime Minister intend to do to get correct PISA measurements and a correct evaluation of the Swedish school?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-180	Mr President, I would like to That measurement has been analysed several times already, also with the help of the OECD. The responsible minister has also said: Let us look again. But no one can yet say that it has been fucked up. Let's hold off on that verdict. Let the OECD look again – I think it will be for the third time. If there is something wrong, we must correct it. We'll have the truth on the table. That's who we want to know. We do not fear this at all, but do not judge it until it has been done. I think that's a little early.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-182	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for the answer and assume that it can then be an independent review of the latest measurement and how Sweden has handled it. I want to get back to school. The teachers I have met during the spring semester have fought hard. On the other hand, students have been in the classroom, and on the other hand, they have been doing distance learning. The school also has, like health care, employees who have almost got on their knees to give the kids the opportunity to get the knowledge they need. However, many report that they have not been able to do so. We are now facing this together. We invest in holiday schools – I think that's good; the Liberals have pushed for it. But what can the Prime Minister do further to ensure that this autumn we have even more efforts to raise those students who may not have gained the knowledge that is so important for either moving to high school or moving up a year and ensuring that we get the world-class school that is actually the answer to most social problems in the long term?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-185	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to independence, we believe that the OECD, which has now done so twice, is independent. It is not the government but the OECD that is looking at this. Let them look at it a third time. Of course, the truth will come out. I would also like to remind you that during the last parliamentary term we made sure to tighten up teacher training. We gave it better resources. We had more teachers, more teaching assistants and more resources for the school, especially for those schools that have the biggest problems. I think there was a good 20 000 more people employed at school. On that road we must continue. That is why I am so happy about this discussion. Now we are more and more parties that realise that that is where our resources must go first. We must ensure that we have tax revenue so that we can make a substantial effort to restore welfare – schools, health care and care for the elderly. Then we will not be able to afford any major tax cuts in the future. Let us ensure that we deliver welfare to our citizens instead.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-188	Mr President, I would like to There is a proud Swedish tradition of solid investigations following national crises. In modern times we remember the disaster commissions after the sinking of the Estonia in 1994 and after the Christmas weekend of 2004 tsunamis. Just as then, this crisis is to be evaluated. Through an impartial and objective review of the interventions during the crisis, we can learn lessons for the future and equip Sweden stronger for future crises. It is good that the government met the parties of the Riksdag and is now setting up a Corona Commission already this summer. It is also good that we should work out the directives together. Broad agreement on the mandate increases confidence in the Commission's conclusions. So far we agree. Now we have given the government our detailed views on its draft. However, I would like to mention three key points where we expect the government to change its mind. Firstly, the crisis management of the government and the authorities must be explicitly subject to evaluation by the Commission. Secondly, the Commission must be composed of party-politically independent Members with high integrity, great authority and broad experience. The Commission must not be politicised. Thirdly, the Commission's overall conclusions must, of course, be presented before the elections. The government proposes a final report in November 2022, possibly two months after the next elections. That is simply unreasonable. Sweden will learn from both successes and failures and then implement concrete changes. Don't lose it for party political reasons!
i-2d61f04e66348f69-195	Mr President, I would like to We're not through this crisis yet. However, we will have to restart, and it comes closer every day, thank God. We have prepared it so that 1.3 million employees, according to our assessment, will benefit from short-term lay-offs during the year, and then they will be ready to start production. I hope that after the crisis we will also find a real consensus on the importance of better welfare. We see all the needs in care for the elderly, in health care and in school. Better working conditions and training opportunities are needed. Compared to 2014, approximately 100,000 more people are now working in Swedish welfare, and we have recently launched a care lift that can give 10,000 opportunities to study during working hours. That's good. But we need to do much more, and we need to do it for a long time. Are Ulf Kristersson and the Moderates prepared to put equality and welfare throughout the country before major tax cuts in the future?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-198	Mr President, I would like to It is about as wise as to ask: Is the Prime Minister prepared to give priority to welfare or work? It's a meaningless question. Either we have people who work – who want to work, are allowed to work and can work – and who pay a lot of taxes because they work a lot and earn money, and that creates the conditions for a comprehensive and equal public welfare. Or we have people who do not work, who live on benefits, do not pay taxes, live in exclusion and need welfare but do not contribute to it. Then it's assed. The difference in our view is not whether welfare is good or not. The difference in our view is whether to work your way to well-being or whether the welfare is found at the Ministry of Finance.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-200	Mr President, I would like to I am the party chairman of the Social Democratic Labour Party, that is, the party that has made it very clear that welfare is being worked together. That is why we have been beaten so much for full employment and more hours worked. But when we have worked and paid our taxes, we want the tax to be used for welfare. That's exactly the thing. If you cut taxes by large amounts of money, something happens with state revenue, and that is that you don't have as much money for expenditure. Now we need to invest heavily together with municipalities and regions in health care, care for the elderly, school and other things to deal with the aftermath of this crisis. I mean, that's the way we're going to go. I just wonder: could you, in the Moderates, also consider prioritising it before major tax cuts?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-203	Mr President, I would like to I know the party history of the Social Democrats almost as well as I know my own, and I have great respect for the fact that you were once a party that fought for work and the value of labour. First duty, then right – to work together in the sweat of your face the tax money and your own income you needed. Then we took over that role from you, and we have managed that pound much better than you have. If the Prime Minister seriously thinks that higher taxes are always better, why do we not go back to 90% marginal taxes? Why do you not remove all job tax deductions so that it is systematically less profitable to work? Well, because you know, intellectually, that it would be madness, but you are cultivating a rhetoric from the 1950s.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-205	Mr President, I would like to It may sound in the debate that everyone wants to invest in care for the elderly these days. Everyone wants more people to work there and to have better working conditions. That's not what it looks like when you make your choices and when you make your budgets. After the last parliamentary elections, the Moderates and Christian Democrats passed their state budget. A reform that we had negotiated for some 4 000 extra services in the care of the elderly, SEK 2 billion, was not extended and was removed. It was noticed in the care of the elderly around Sweden. In Stockholm it was the same. The Moderates chose to reduce taxes and impose saving requirements on elderly care. I can tell. This can be seen in our retirement homes, it can be seen in the home care service and that is partly what we also notice in the Corona crisis. My question to Ulf Kristersson is: Do you regret these decisions? Was it wrong to impose saving requirements on elderly care some year ago?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-209	Mr President, I would like to I share Jonas Sjöstedt's view in one respect. I think everyone is concerned about what has happened in Swedish care for the elderly in recent months. Everyone, without exception, is concerned, not least the elderly who live there and the relatives of the elderly. I know that extremely well. There are many concerns: the number of employees, continuity of employment, language skills, training requirements and skills. All of this can be a cause for concern. One can also worry about the protective equipment that was not there when it was needed and political decisions that were not made in time to protect those who were most vulnerable. All of this is a good reason for concern, and I assume that all of this will be evaluated by the Corona Commission. Jonas Sjöstedt likes to talk about Stockholm. I checked that out, and there are more full-time employees in Stockholm's elderly care since 2018 than before.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-212	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the bourgeois municipal management in Stockholm has imposed saving requirements on elderly care is beyond doubt. Then the population and needs can grow, and other things can happen. It is also beyond any doubt that, when it really was the case, the Moderates and Christian Democrats chose to remove the extra money for staff in the care of the elderly that we in the Left Party had negotiated with the then government. I share views on much of what Ulf Kristersson says about the weaknesses in care for the elderly. It's about a lot of different things, but none of them get better if fewer people do the job. It becomes more difficult to set schedules and it becomes more difficult to cope with the different tasks you face. Mr President, I would like to I find it remarkable that the Moderate Leader cannot say: Yes, it was wrong. These people would have been needed in the care of the elderly now during the crisis.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-216	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Left has negotiated a budget line with the Social Democrats does not automatically lead us to think it is a good solution. We sometimes agree on budgetary matters, but that is more exception than the rule. Furthermore, we felt, with good reason, that it was a poor labour market policy effort. This does not mean that the elderly do not need more employees. You need more permanent employees, more full-time employees and employees who are valued for that task, not least when we look forward. Nothing indicates that care for the elderly will be less important in Sweden in the coming decades, but just the opposite. Everything we can do to upgrade that work, make it more valuable and bring up the skills and respect I think it makes sense to do.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-219	Mr President, I would like to In SVT, a assistant nurse recently summarized the situation at the University Hospital. She told me about the press and said: It is short about regular staff. Besides the double workload, we train people all the time. I am very pleased with the close cooperation of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. During the alliance years, it was our close cooperation that led to a halving of healthcare queues and showed that more resources are sometimes needed but above all a leadership for how resources are to be used. When we drew up our common budget, we agreed that health care would have far more resources than the Red-Green Government proposed. Now we need our leadership again unless the health workers go into the wall. Can we agree to call on the Prime Minister to gather all parties to produce a crisis package for health professionals here and now? It may be too late this fall.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-223	Mr President, I would like to The short answer is: Yes, please! The somewhat longer answer is that I have no serious objections to any of what Ebba Busch said. What it really is all about is that many of the problems we had in Sweden before the corona surface now during and after the corona. I myself mentioned the economy, integration and crime – obvious such things – and nothing has become less serious as a result of Corona. Ebba Busch mentions care, care queues and those problems. Nothing has been solved, but rather it is just the opposite. We have put other things in front of us to focus on what was necessary, but we have not solved the other problems. I believe that the need for reforms, for short queues and for respect for the health care sector's ability to carry out its important task has only increased during the Corona. I'd love to!
i-2d61f04e66348f69-226	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased, and I fully share Ulf Kristersson's view that much of the great, fundamental problems that Sweden was struggling with before the Corona crisis will come back with renewed force. It is important that, now that we are out of the crucial phase, we are also able to present reforms to this effect. What I would like to emphasise is that the little that the government has done so far in terms of health care is something that refers to the future. It is good that there will be more employees ahead, but we need to have a solution to ensure holiday this summer for the care and that there are more colleagues when you come back so that we do not risk mass sickness reports this autumn when you are going to take on the big and important task of managing all the operations that have been postponed.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-228	Mr President, I would like to The short-term risk is obvious; people are completely exhausted from working around the clock for a long time and will then deal with things that are important to other people whose problems and diseases are no less important because others have had corona problems. The long-term risk, which I would like to emphasise, is that in a recession we are now going to make major reforms in the area of health care and in other areas. We have wasted the opportunities we have had in boom, with good tax revenues and good economy. There are quite a few areas that we are now going to deal with, in a much tougher economic environment. It's gonna be hard. But we're gonna make it.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-230	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Ulf Kristersson addressed the crisis in the 1990s. Then the interest rushed, the bankruptcies stood like rods on the hill and people in our country had to leave house and home. One effect of this crisis was that Sweden became a member of the European Union. Since then, the European Union has faced numerous crises. We have seen the Swedish bnp increase sharply, and the growth in our companies has been good. The background to membership was not just economics. It is also a community of values. We believe that Europe is connected and that what is good for Europe is good for Sweden. Europe is now facing the same crisis management as we are. I therefore have a question for Ulf Kristersson. How do the Moderates think we should solve funding in the long term in the European Union? And how can we deal with the issue of a fund to save the whole of Europe?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-234	Mr President, I would like to I start where I think we are in complete agreement, that is to say that the value and economic reasons for Swedish membership of the European Union are still fundamental. Basically, nothing has changed. Much has changed in the world and in Europe. But that hasn't changed. The problems are different in Europe, both in terms of value and in terms of the economy. So everything has changed. But basically, nothing has changed. Sweden is a stable and permanent member of the European Union. And we'll stay that way. This does not mean that we need to agree on exactly how to solve the problems in practical terms. I understand that we – in the Swedish sense, and the government is very much included – are very sceptical about some of the things that are now happening at European level. The Commission's proposal on the long-term budget and recovery fund contains very problematic elements which, together with Denmark, Holland and Austria, we do not see that we can support. I think that we are right and that the others are wrong and that they thus jeopardise the legitimacy of the European Union.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-238	Mr President, I would like to This picture is not shared by Ulf Kristersson's party colleagues in Europe. You're more of a pusher. This applies, for example, to Ulf Kristersson's colleagues in Germany. We must save Europe. It is crucial for our own nation's future, both for us to be able to live in peace and freedom and for our Swedish companies. We're an exporting nation. We Liberals want it to continue to be that way. There's somewhere a chance we'll be left alone. I share the view that it is complicated. I wish that all the countries of Europe would have had the same budgetary discipline as Sweden. It would have been wonderful if the whole of Europe had a strong economy so that we could have invested in a time of crisis. But a lot of people don't, and now we're standing here. Once a new long-term budget is in place, Sweden is likely to continue to be a net contributor. But we make so much money from it. For a small and fantastic country like Sweden that exports, it is not an option to remain outside the EU. And if Europe collapses, it will be a disaster for us.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-242	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that different countries may disagree on these issues. One could also see a link between which countries benefit most from financial contributions and which pay the most – I would venture to say that. But do not involve so much party politics in this. In recent weeks I have had talks with liberal Mark Rutte in Holland and with Christian Democrat Sebastian Kurz in Austria, and both Sweden and Denmark are, as you know, led by Social Democratic prime ministers. The party political link is not clear on these issues. I think that quite different issues have to do with the conclusion that is being reached. Is the legitimacy of the EU primarily based on massive support for a number of countries in the form of grants, or is it based on drawing nutrition from the individual countries' democratic systems? I'll lean on it later.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-245	Mr President, I would like to The Pandemin has certainly shown how our world is connected. The global community is no stronger than its weakest link. If we are to prevent more pandemics, slow down a serious climate crisis and avoid more wars and conflicts and large waves of refugees, there is only one solution. It is that we engage internationally, show international solidarity and prevent crises. However, the responses of the Moderates in the midst of the Corona and climate crises are the opposite. The Moderates now want to leave the 1% target for aid and cut aid to zero by 2030. Does Ulf Kristersson believe that poverty, wars and conflicts, natural disasters and starvation should have ended by 2030? Does Ulf Kristersson simply think that Sweden cannot afford to give 1 percent of the bnp to build a sustainable world? Or does Ulf Kristersson simply not care what happens in our surrounding world?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-248	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to let the last one go. I'm going to let it pass. The other things I'm going to take seriously. The world is connected. The world is more connected than ever before. For example, what we do in China affects what happens in Europe a month later. What is happening in Europe affects what is happening in Sweden. And what happens in the United States affects the whole world. So far, we are in complete agreement. This requires strong Swedish involvement in international forums, such as a deeply respected WHO around the world. This certainly does not mean that the 1% target for aid in its current format is the answer to all questions. We have come to the conclusion that in the long term it is trade and not aid that will help countries financially. If you have a goal of eradicating world poverty, it is clear that the goal should also be that we should not have traditional Swedish aid. We're not there yet. What we have said is that we should not automatically, every year and without reflection increase Swedish aid when there are many other problems that we have reason to take seriously in Sweden as well.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-252	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly the opposite of what you Moderates have said, Ulf Kristersson. Every year, you want to cut aid down to zero by 2030. I am extremely fascinated by how easily Ulf Kristersson takes on this issue. For decades we have had a consensus in the Swedish Parliament that 1 per cent of the bnp should go to support the very poorest and to build a sustainable world. But the Moderates now leave principle according to principle, just as easily as you left the energy agreement. You changed your attitude on refugee policy. There we were earlier on the same side. And you left your promise never to cooperate with SD and now you call it nonsense. As former Minister for Development, I would like to say that Sweden's contribution to WHO, UNICEF and UNHCR and support to Somalia, South Sudan, Bangladesh, Bolivia and so on make an incredible difference in the world. Does Ulf Kristersson think that support is unimportant? This must be the case, because we want to phase out Swedish aid.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-255	Mr President, I would like to First, I'd like to make a declaration. The Moderates do not in any way propose decommissioned aid. On the other hand, we say that if the long-term goal is to have a world without that kind of poverty, traditional aid will not be needed either. We're not there now. What we propose in concrete terms is a framework for aid every year, not a twitchiness up and down which depends on exactly what figure the Swedish GDP measure lands on. So there are some years of dramatic increases when you hardly know what to use the money for and dramatic reductions in other years when you have to phase out things that have made sense. We believe in the power and importance of the subject matter, in looking at the subject matter, in making sensible decisions and in finding support for that view. We believe in talking to everyone. Then you get good politics.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-258	Mr President, I would like to When I listened to Stefan Lövven's opening speech, it was difficult not to agree with much of what the Prime Minister said. He said that no one in Sweden should be left alone in a crisis. That sounds amazingly beautiful. I think we can all sign that. Unfortunately, however, this is just wishful thinking. Especially during this crisis, we have become aware of it. Rarely have so many people in not least the last moments of life been just alone. Stefan Löfven also tells us that we are now facing a choice of path. He says he's going to put welfare first. Even that sounds beautiful. But is there a real desire to put welfare first? This is not the first time that Stefan Löfven or a Social Democratic Prime Minister is standing in this or any other speaker's chair and talking about welfare being put first, and then something quite different has been done. Is there a will? Is there the ability? Does Stefan Löfven and his government have the ability to put welfare first? Stefan Löfven tells us that tough priorities will be required. Are you prepared, are you willing and are you able to make these tough priorities? Allow me to doubt, Mr President. We are currently entering the final phase of the work of the Migration Committee. The aim has been to develop a long-term sustainable migration policy. The actions of the Social Democrats in the Migration Committee so far do not suggest that they are prepared to give priority to the priorities needed to put welfare first. I am afraid, Mr President, that, on the contrary, we will return to the same old Social Democratic policy.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-262	Mr President, I would like to On 1 February, the government classified covid disease as dangerous to society and to the general public. It is the same as politically pointing with the whole hand. Then, as I said earlier, we have had 30 additional government meetings to ensure that there are resources in health care and care. We will have to do even more, but so far we have added 250 billion that are directly budgetaryly affected. To rule in a crisis means making decisions right after the situation that prevails here and now. You have to have a thought-out strategy and a plan, and then you have to make decisions along with the development and knowledge of the virus. The Swedish Democrats have been very keen during the spring that Swedish primary schools should be closed down. We were opposed to this, since it had partly impaired children's learning and safety, and it had risked new risks of infection for grandparents. We didn't close the elementary schools. Can we agree, Jimmie Åkesson, that the decision not to close the schools was right?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-266	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven is right in that the virus we have encountered is new. No one really knew anything about it when it came. Therefore, it was difficult to know how to act. How do you act if you want to take responsibility? Of course, you can wait and see what happens, and then you react to it. This is what Stefan Löfven and his government have done in the main. Instead, a precautionary principle can be used. One assumes that one must take the safe before the insecure. When you don't know, it's better to do too much than too little. It is possible that both me and Stefan Löfven have been wrong in different parts of our analyses. But the Swedish Democrats have based on a precautionary principle. Stefan Lövven's government has assumed that we will react when we see what happens. This has led to unique death rates in Sweden.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-269	Mr President, I would like to I cannot interpret this in any other way than that the Swedish Democrats think it was wrong to keep schools open to our children. I don't think so. This crisis is far from over. No one's sitting on anything. A Corona Commission will review the whole of this with regard to the actions of all actors, from government to regions, municipalities, authorities and others. I argue that the decision not to close the schools was the right decision. As we now look a little forward, Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats talk about all the good contributions in health care and the heroes there. The heroes are in care and care. There is no doubt about it. The only question is if they're all heroes. Do Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats think that all the people who have come from other countries and who are now making a contribution in healthcare and care also heroes?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-271	Mr President, I would like to All people, regardless of their background and whether they are born in another country, are poor or rich, are white or black or have other differences, which contribute to our society, which seeks to improve our society, which contributes to the community and which helps to try and rebuild our divided country, and contribute to it constructively, are heroes. That is my firm opinion. My criticism of the government, Mr President, is not about any single thing like closing schools or something like that, but about the starting point, the precautionary principle. What I have said is that the government has played a high game. It is possible that it was right to keep schools open, but it was a high game with real people's lives. And that is what I am opposed to, Mr President.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-273	Mr President, I would like to It's always fascinating to listen to Jimmie Åkesson – always painting Sweden in black, always he says it's someone else's fault and finally he doesn't really have his own proposals on how things could be improved. After the last elections, the Swedish Democrats have gained power in some municipalities in southern Sweden. It is therefore interesting to see what consequences there will be when a right-wing populist party is allowed to rule. I looked at Skånska Hörby. 25 executives in the municipality have quit. Journalists wishing to review public documents are restricted. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has now begun a review of the municipality after a number of employees have reported a feeling of concern and insecurity at work. Jimmie Åkesson said in her national day speech a number of beautiful words about belonging, community and cohesion, but it does not seem to be this that characterizes reality. Is it the hard pinches that we now see in Hörby that would be the consequence if the Swedish Democrats also had an influence at national level?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-276	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what Anders W Jonsson means by hard pinches. The situation in an individual municipality after a change of power I do not see as hard pinches. This is particularly true in the event of a shift of power in a highly polarised situation in which some of the existing administration have chosen not to continue working under the new governance. These people have made their own conscious choice because they cannot accept that the people have voted for a new government. I do not know what Anders W Jonsson wants to do if he is to take over the government power in Sweden or if his party is to take over a municipality somewhere. Is it reasonable to have officials who do not do what has been decided in politics? I guess that's completely unreasonable. It's not democratic. It completely destroys the legitimacy of the democratic system. That must surely be understood by Anders W Jonsson.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-278	Mr President, I would like to The difference will be so great between the fine and frantic words and the big, starved words in this Chamber and the consequences it will have. It is not a matter of mild criticism. The Swedish Work Environment Authority states that there are serious shortcomings in the municipal work environment and that they can lead to serious illness or injury. At least half of the workers – not just managers – have to varying degrees experienced high workloads and labour violations. This is something that started in 2019 and has now been accentuated. The experiences have led to a feeling of anxiety and insecurity at work. It becomes clear what happens when a right-wing populist party like the Swedish Democrats not only stands and criticizes, paints in black and says that someone else is responsible but is itself forced to shoulder the responsibility. Then you have these consequences. In addition, they have now been notified to the Ombudsman. What is the difference in this? Is this what would be the consequences if Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats had the opportunity to influence national politics as well?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-281	Mr President, I would like to I think that Anders W Jonsson should read a little more about the situation in Hörby and take note of the discussions and measures that have been taken to respond to the criticism that has been partly justified. But to some extent it has not been, but has been part of a political power struggle with those who are loyal to the old rule that the voters did not want to retain. It surprises me a little that Anders W Jonsson plays in this. It is not basically the Center Party that is behind it, but it is primarily the old Social Democratic government that is responsible for the conflict. If Anders W Jonsson wants to defend it, he can do it. Read it, Anders W Jonsson! Follow the development in Hörby! Go over there and say hello to all these poor associates, who seem to have a real misery! I think you'll be surprised.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-284	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson! Aftersight is the most common form of wisdom. It is also the simplest form. During the Corona crisis it has been very quiet from the Swedish Democrats. But now the party comes out and says that things should have been done very differently very much earlier than today. Then what happened? On February 1, the government classifies the coronavirus as a social disease. There are several reports from our surrounding world that the virus is spreading. On 23 February, serious transmission of infection is reported in Italy. On February 24, the Public Health Agency warns that those who return may have symptoms and must be gentle. On 25 February, the Swedish Public Health Agency estimates that there is a risk that people who have been abroad have been infected and take the infection back to Sweden. A week later, Jimmie Åkesson goes to Turkey to incite refugees. If you're going to be hindsight, Jimmie Åkesson, was it so wise to go to Turkey a week after that?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-288	Mr President, I would like to No one had come up with any advice to go abroad, such as to Turkey. But I don't know – maybe it wasn't wise to do it. However, I do not think this is really relevant in this context. What's relevant is whether or not I'm hindsight. I'm saying I'm not. It is possible that Jonas Sjöstedt is, but I am not. I have been extremely disappointed from the outset with the slowness that has been shown, not least by the government. I have criticised the miscalculations that have been made and which have then led to us having the situation we have got in Sweden, with unique death rates – more than four times as many deaths as in our Nordic neighbours together. We have proposed a wide range of measures. We have worked hard to ensure that care workers are also entitled to protective equipment. The government has been against that. We've worked hard for more people to be tested. You've initially been against that. This isn't hindsight. It is just a repetition of the criticism that I have made all the way.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-290	Mr President, I would like to I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. It is the answer that usually comes from Jimmie Åkesson when the questions become too concrete, become too specific and perhaps do not have a good answer. If it is the case that the Swedish Democrats can say that they knew that other things should have been done at this time, with more extensive restrictions and more extensive advice, still hangs the question in the air: Why does Jimmie Åkesson go to Turkey to incite refugees one week after the Swedish Public Health Agency has talked about having the infection back to Sweden and when you already see reports of the infection spreading around the world? If it is the case that the Swedish Democrats all the way have known better – better than the government, better than the Public Health Agency, better than everyone else – does Jimmie Åkesson know no better about his own journey, or does he just not know?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-292	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes when it's something you don't really know, it might be good to say it, instead of, like many others, such as Jonas Sjöstedt, coming up with flosskeler or fictional analyses or pretending to know something that you don't really know. When it comes to Sweden's handling of this crisis, I have not noticed much from Jonas Sjöstedt initially, except that Jonas Sjöstedt has been very keen that we must stick together in this crisis and not criticise too much without showing political unity. Most of us have had about the same starting point. But at the same time you have to dare to question when you see that something is not working. This is particularly true of those who are repeatedly forced to back down from previous analyses – this must be pointed out politically. I do not know if Jonas Sjöstedt is opposed to it; that would surprise me very much.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-295	Mr President, I would like to Psychologist Niclas Wisén usually works in the Swedish Armed Forces to help staff prepare for military operations abroad. He himself is an officer and participated in Mali 05. He is an expert on how stress and crises affect us humans. He is now warning about what is happening in healthcare. He says to the World of Labour, "What we know is that if we drive staff too hard, we risk having negative effects at a later stage. ..................................................... I have taken note of Jimmie Åkesson's criticism of how the government managed the coronapandemine in Sweden. Now the health services need us. My question is whether we can agree to call on the Prime Minister to bring together all parties to produce a crisis package for health professionals here and now. It may be too late this fall.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-297	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we can. We see a well-being that is extremely strained right now, but it is not new that welfare is strained. It is not new that care or care is strained. It has been so for a very long time, but this crisis has made it much worse. It is a large-scale activity that has already had large staff shortages and staff supply problems in the past, and these problems are now getting even worse. An operation with already very high unhealthy numbers has even worse problems with unhealthy speech. Mr President, I would like to I think that Ebba Busch is making a very wise proposal which I am happy to endorse.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-299	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the discussions that have taken place in the spring and perhaps not least in recent weeks are extremely important. People, not least those who struggle so hard in health care, need to hear politicians not only acknowledge the difficult situation we are in, but also come up with concrete proposals that are not far ahead but could make a difference this year. I thank Jimmie Åkesson for her reply.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-301	Mr President, I would like to I can take this opportunity to say something about the more structural aspects of healthcare in Sweden. I think that I and Ebba Busch agree that, not least, this crisis has shown the need for increased government governance of health care. I assume that it is a debate that is starting even wider now that we have seen the breakdown concerning, not least, coordination, testing and coordination of care places and a wide range of other things. I think this is an issue that urgently needs to be raised and discussed in depth.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-302	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate Jimmie Åkesson because he likes to question. That was the positive feedback. But I have some concern about the straw dolls that Jimmie Åkesson is constantly building over the liberal nation of Sweden, which is based on freedom, respect for human rights and tolerance. I understand that Jimmie Åkesson and his party want somewhere else, just like many other forces calling for a more authoritarian government. I really question Jimmie Åkesson's view of the division of power, which means that we in Parliament make laws, the government and authorities enforce and the courts judge. Several times, Jimmie Åkesson's party has now gone hard against administrative managers, against media company managers and against the police, who are asked exactly how they investigate certain crimes. You're in librarians who have the wrong books. It's the wrong art and wrong culture. Why doesn't Jimmie Åkesson share power?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-304	Mr President, I would like to I do not know that we would try to force on some librarians any particular books. That sounds absurd. That also applies to my authoritarian, terrible and terrible book. Mr President, I would like to I think that politics has the ultimate responsibility for what is happening in our society, regardless of whether we have independent authorities or not. I have basically no other model of administration, but I think that what has happened in recent months may be reason to start discussing the Swedish model of governance in depth. I don't have any suggestions here and now. I'm not even sure I want to do anything else. But we should examine it, because it has not worked. As politicians, especially opposition politicians, one must be able to make criticism when the government is so clearly hiding behind the authorities. It is clear that the government is being severely criticised. But one must also be able to explain why one criticises the government, and then one must be able to criticise what a head of authority does and says and which is obviously wrong.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-307	Madam President, I would like Yes, but does it not lead quite far if it is we from Parliament, we politicians who are elected, who should go in and poke in the media? I want Jimmie Åkesson to know that even I don't love everything that's written in the media-- I can tell you that. But it does not make me think that we should call people here to Parliament and that I should have cross-examination with them. Nor does it make me think that I should interfere in what art should be set up and which art is good enough or that one should, for that matter, go after individual officials. This does not apply to Directors-General, because the opposition always thinks that they are soggy and that they are doing everything wrong and too late. For example, to say that individual officials in our agencies should resign is to go very far, and that is a very clear departure from the model of power sharing that we have in Sweden and that I mean has served Sweden well. Jimmie Åkesson wants to go to direct government. It is important information for the citizens, in case he gains power in this country.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-310	Madam President, I would like No, Johan Pehrson must read more carefully. I have not said that we should remove any individual official from any authority. On the other hand, I have expressed an opinion, which I am entitled to do as a citizen of this country: that an official should resign. That's a completely different thing. It's not ministerial rule. I'm not a minister either, for that matter. I think that Johan Pehrson brings up a few things in both his lines that are very interesting. He's talking about straw men. The segregation is not a straw man. Integration problems are not straws. The care queues are not a straw man. Gang crime is not a straw man. The riot-like situations that we have seen in our three largest cities in the last few days are no straw man. These are real, real problems that real, real people of flesh and blood wrestle with daily and scare real people of flesh and blood in our country. Then you can stand here in the Swedish parliament and talk about it as straw men. Yes, we obviously have different perceptions of reality, Johan Pehrson from the Liberals and I. The voters simply decide which concept of reality is the most reasonable. That is democracy, Madam President.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-313	Madam President, I would like We are living at a time when democracy and media freedom are under very strong pressure, even in countries within the EU. The president of the United States regularly calls big news media fake news. Reporters without borders report alarming restrictions on freedom of the press in a number of countries in connection with the Corona crisis. In Sweden, a discussion is currently taking place within the Press and Freedom of Expression Committee on the constitutionalisation of public services independence. That's what the Green Party wants. Free and impartial independent media is a cornerstone of our democracy. Unfortunately, we do not believe that Sweden is immune. There is concern that the independence of public services can be changed with a simple club team in the Riksdag. But SD opposes this. My simple question to Jimmie Åkesson is: Why don't you want to? Would you rather have political governance of public service than independent media?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-316	Madam President, I would like Now there is no proposal on my table, so I cannot comment in detail on the reasons why we have said in a certain way about a particular matter. Let's get back to that. But when it comes to public service in general, I have no other opinion than that public service should be precisely independent. It's kind of the foundation. If we're going to have public service, it has to be. Otherwise, it makes no sense to have public service. That is the point of departure. We have state media competing with private media to ensure broad coverage throughout the country. You have a certain cultural heritage mission. There is a mirror mission and such things. We have comments on parts of this, but basically, Madam President, we are the party that really stands for independence. That is also why we are criticising. There is now reason to question the independence and impartiality of public services. One must be able to discuss these things without being accused of wanting to introduce dictatorship. It's not about that. It is about us having a free and independent public service.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-319	Madam President, I would like This was interesting. We can look at how SD has acted so far. For example, when SVT sends something that you dislike, you want to call its managers to Parliament. The power will thus review the press, and it is not the press that should review the power. It's incredibly troubling. When journalist Peter Kadhammar visited SD-controlled Hörby and wanted to see public documents, he only had half an hour, under guard, to review the documents. He described it as extremely unpleasant. When you, Jimmie Åkesson, were interviewed by P3 News you said it was a shit channel, and if you could decide, you'd put it down. You are now blocking the issue of constitutional independence of public services. I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson again if he believes that a free and independent journalism that reviews power has a central place in a democratic society – yes or no. If he answers yes, I wonder why he opposes constitutional protection.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-324	Madam President, I would like Again, the short answer to the question is yes. The question is whether the government really agrees with this, that is, in reality and not just in the beautiful speeches and in the beautiful words. Do you really agree with that in action? Is this what the government wants, or is it a way of ensuring that public services are in some kind of control? I don't know. But do you not see a problem with the fact that public services very often tend to lack impartiality? I cannot force anyone to see it and to think so, but I can at least try to raise it to debate, and that is what has happened. There has never been a question of calling public service managers here to tell them what to report on or to have views on any individual reporting. However, if there is a pattern that is obvious to all who are not completely involved in the politically correct order, one must be able to ask politically how they themselves view it. That's what happened.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-327	Madam President, I would like The single most important task right now is to reduce the spread of infection in Sweden. Sweden needs to update its Corona strategy and test everyone with symptoms, so that we can resume active infection detection and break more infection chains. It is crucial both to protect people's lives and to protect our jobs and businesses. The government has now set aside money with the declared ambition to move in the direction proposed by the Center Party. I expect the government to also take responsibility so that we really get there and remove all obstacles to rapidly increasing testing. But responsible leadership must also have the ability to look ahead. You have to see what it takes to get Sweden out of the crisis and how best to meet the challenges and heal the wounds caused by the pandemic. It is about long-term conditions for our companies, so that they find the courage and the conditions to restart and renew. It is about making our small businesses continue to be the vital job creators, who built our country strong, but also about facing the enormous health debt that we have now incurred when regular care has had to stand back. I hear with concern reports that people with symptoms of cancer and heart attack do not seek medical attention. Solving the debt will be one of our greatest challenges. But it is also a matter of reviewing how we take care of everyone who has now taken care of us, everyone who has worked hard in the care and care of the covids. The Center Party will continue to be a responsible force in this work. We will continue to focus on reducing the spread of infection while doing everything in our power to put in place a long-term policy that takes Sweden forward.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-332	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking Anders W Jonsson for a good cooperation also during the Corona crisis. We have acted quickly and forcefully and together we have been able to present measures that only have a budget impact of SEK 245 billion. The first rescue package came on March 11. It has been money for increased testing, more secure jobs and better education in elderly care. We have ensured that healthcare has received the necessary resources, and that is a good thing. Now, just as Anders W Jonsson was in his speech, it is time to ensure that healthcare and care are provided with resources after the crisis so that we have enough. This reveals, not least, the shortcomings that we see in the care of the elderly, but it is also because public investment of this kind and public consumption may be the best way to get the economy and employment going. Therefore, my brief question to Anders W Jonsson: Is the Center Party prepared to continue to put welfare first in order to restart Sweden?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-335	Madam President, I would like Solving the enormous health debt that we have received will be one of our most important measures. However, a number of structural reforms are needed. On the one hand, we need to start using the full capacity of Swedish healthcare, and on the other hand we need to start using the digital tools in a completely different way. I also see the opportunity to ensure that we stop doing all the unnecessary things that we have been doing for so long in health care. Then we have the key question: How are we going to get more money for welfare? Money for welfare does not come like manna falling from the sky, but if we are to have more resources for welfare, it is about pursuing a wise policy that ensures that our companies get started and dare to hire. Four out of five new jobs emerge in Swedish small businesses. That is where the key lies to bringing more money to welfare but also to making it more efficient.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-338	Madam President, I would like I also share that view; that is why we must restart the economy as quickly as it ever goes and ensure that people get to work. Then we get back to the situation we actually had before the Corona crisis. We had the highest employment ever in Sweden. We had, I believe, the highest employment rate across Europe. That's where we're going back as soon as possible, which is why welfare is so important. With this effort, we can take forward the development that has begun with the holistic approach to health centres and hospitals, and by using the new technology much better we will be able to cope with much. That is why we need to continue to upgrade welfare. It is about education, about more employees and, of course, about technology issues. I think it is good that the Center Party is now responding very clearly to the need to prioritise welfare. Of course, if we are to afford it, we should also have more people at work.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-341	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the Prime Minister's view that comprehensive measures will be needed to boost the Swedish economy and thus bring in more resources, not least for health care and care for the elderly. But then it is also a question of daring to take structural action. Some major changes are needed both in care for the elderly and in health care. There are various important parts, including being able to use available capacity in healthcare throughout Sweden. Today, there is a restriction that prevents patients who need inpatient care from seeking care throughout the country. Remove that rule and ensure that patients can seek care where the queues are at their shortest! We have a number of effective private health care providers. Emphasise their efforts and make sure they can work even more efficiently! It takes a lot of innovation to get Swedish welfare going and to be able to repair the damage we have had during this very, very difficult period.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-345	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson! The Center Party is a driving force to destroy the employment security of millions of Swedish employees. An investigation has now presented a frontal attack on job security so that it will be easy to get rid of people in Sweden and difficult for the union to defend itself against unfair and unjust dismissals. The argument for this, I have now heard in several debates from Anders W Jonsson, is that there will be more jobs. But even the investigation itself says it won't. It won't be affected by this. The same argument was put forward when two exceptions to the rotation rules were introduced for smaller companies. There was no effect then either. On the other hand, some people went sick to work. That is not something we want, especially in a pandemic. I wonder what Anders W Jonsson is really basing these claims on. Which studies or evaluations say that there will be more jobs because it will be easier to dismiss people arbitrarily in Sweden?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-349	Madam President, I would like Since the late 70s, the Center Party has been pushing that we have to make changes to the Employment Protection Act. Karin Söder said back in 1979 that this is a law that consistently disadvantages women, young people and immigrants. That is what has been the driving force behind all these years trying to change things. This will reduce the thresholds for entry into the labour market. The study also states clearly that one of the effects of the proposed changes will be to make it easier for the people who are farthest away from the labour market to enter the labour market. That is a clear conclusion. For the Center Party, it is extremely important that those who are furthest away from the labour market have increased opportunities to enter. For the Left, it is more important to safeguard those who are already in the labour market and established with permanent jobs.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-352	Madam President, I would like I have been involved in enough debates to know that a classic trick when you get a question that you cannot answer is to talk about something that is just beside that question and try to make it sound like an answer. There was a nice show in it, Anders W Jonsson! That is absolutely correct. It will be easier to get rid of worn out, old and low-skilled. This is also stated in the research. They're losers. Some others come in instead of them, but the overall employment impact is virtually zero. There will be no more jobs. The investigators don't think so. Nor is it possible to prove after the last time you were there and worsened the security of employment. I ask Anders W Jonsson one more time: Why are there more jobs? What study shows that there will be more jobs? Even your own investigator doesn't think there'll be any more jobs. I have met Anders W Jonsson in a number of debates where it has been claimed that this would happen. Up to evidence, Anders W Jonsson!
i-2d61f04e66348f69-356	Madam President, I would like It is quite interesting when Jonas Sjöstedt describes these proposals as if it is about making it easier to kick those who are worn out. It has nothing to do with it. This is about changing the rules of rotation so that further exceptions can be made. It is not a question of changing the fact that there must be factual grounds for dismissal. Jonas Sjöstedt then asks what basis there is that this may mean that more people will get a job. It is the case that four out of five new jobs in Sweden come in the Swedish small businesses. I move out and meet many small businesses and discuss with them what it is that makes them not dare to take the step and hire one more person when they have so much to do at the company. Throughout, the answer is: we are very concerned about what it means with the legislation that exists. It's better that we who are here work harder than bringing in a new person. In fact, a wrong recruitment can be absolutely devastating for the company.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-358	Madam President, I would like Eva Berglund, intensive care nurse in Jönköping, describes in Svenska Dagbladet a feeling of inadequacy and constant pressure on the work. I would also like to quote her:"I just handed over a rather chaotic passport to my colleague, and you never want that. I know I could have done a better job under different conditions. [...]– I have seen colleagues crying, that's it. Those who feel the worst risk entering the wall and that is terrible. ..................................................... Anders W Jonsson knows how tough it can be in healthcare. I don't doubt that for a second. I'm sure he hears stories from his colleagues about how this crisis has struck. Now they need us, everyone in politics, and my question is whether we can agree to call on the Prime Minister to bring all parties together to produce a crisis package for health professionals here and now. It may be too late this fall.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-361	Madam President, I would like I don't need to read in Svenska Dagbladet because I have this right on my skin. I hear how tough it is. They say that you have worked long shifts before, you have had many patients before, that it happens that people die in health care, but one of the things that is absolutely toughest is when you have a severely ill, dying patient and it is not possible to work closely with the relatives. It is one of the most important stress factors for all those who wear hard on our covid sections around Sweden. This is why we in the Center Party have raised the issue. Just as Ebba Busch heard in my speech, I just pointed to this issue as one of the things we need to address. This will be a concern during the summer, autumn and coming years. If we are to ensure that the people who have made heroic contributions also have the energy to continue working in the care, we must support them.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-364	Madam President, I would like Not everyone, like Anders W Jonsson, carries these stories naturally. It deserves to bring these stories in from the reality of the House, that we really hear their voices. I am pleased with the commitment of the Center Party on these issues, and I still see that there is openness to agree on some kind of health care crisis package that can make a difference even this year – precisely so that all regions will ensure that there will be holiday this summer for health professionals and a sustainable work situation once they come back at the end of summer and this autumn.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-366	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch need not doubt at all what drives the Center Party on these issues. Here we must support these people. That is why this is not a new issue for us, but is something we have been working on. It was also one of the issues I raised in my speech. This work will cost money. It's not free. It's gonna cost a lot of money. We have a budget cooperation with the government. During the crisis, we have successfully put forward proposals on how to deal with the different situations. This is one of the many proposals that the Center Party has highlighted in this cooperation, and it is not something that we have in any way released. Here we are determined that efforts must be made, and it will cost extra money. All these heroes and heroines in our covid departments and covid-IVA departments are worth doing something for them. I hope we can deliver.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-369	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. There are many lessons to be learned from the Corona crisis in Sweden in recent months. One of them is how important it is to actually have a safe and steady job. Those who get to go first are the hourly employees. They're the ones called in and called in from the agency. Many of them also lack protection, for example in the case of unemployment. Then they have no income. We have seen in the care of the elderly how many people have not been able to register for sick leave because they do not have permanent employment. It is, of course, incredibly serious in such a situation. We have seen how many hourly employees go around between different workplaces. It's hard to say against a bad boss if you don't have a permanent job. It is therefore the worst possible time to tackle job security in Sweden; it is completely tone-deaf. Our trade unions have quickly negotiated agreements to save companies, for example on short-term lay-offs. At the same time, people have joined a-cassors and trade unions because they have understood that it is protection when the crisis comes. To thank the trade union movement by attacking the employment security of its members is completely toneless. The same is true of overcrowding. We have seen how the infection spreads most in neighborhoods where people live crowded, where the economy is poor and where the underlying health is worse from the start. In this situation, thinking about market rents that would increase overcrowding, which means building for the richest in society, is also completely tone-deaf. Policy must be able to adapt to reality. These were bad proposals from the beginning, and they are even worse proposals now. Let them go in the trash.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-374	Madam President, I would like We don't have to think about market rents. Don't do that, Jonas Sjöstedt! There won't be any market rents, so you don't have to worry about it. We agree that welfare should be a priority in the future. Since the last term of office, approximately 100 000 more people are working in Swedish welfare. During the Corona crisis, we have contributed SEK 26 billion to municipalities and regions and made a major care lift to get better education and permanent employment for those in elderly care. We have seen the need to really rearrange elderly care. The person who works there should also be able to take on routines and not least be able to communicate with the elderly. Then lack of language skills is a problem that is often raised in this context.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-378	Madam President, I would like I take the mark of market rents as a promise that another investigation will go straight into the trash. Thank you for that! We've increased the additions to welfare twice this year. The Prime Minister counts that money directly; that's on me. We are prepared to help again if more money is needed for elderly care and health care in Sweden. There is no doubt about it. I agree that language problems are a concern in home care and in our retirement homes. It is also linked to a lack of education. As I see it, the combination is that you study to assistant nurse, get permanent employment and at the same time read Swedish the best way out to get to your right in the profession. I myself have visited courses where everyone goes from unemployment to work; study to assistant nurse and read Swedish at the same time. That's what our welfare model should look like.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-381	Madam President, I would like This is precisely why the Social Democrats in several municipalities are proposing to strengthen Swedish knowledge in the care of the elderly as well. It's something we went to elections on. The government, together with the Liberals and the Center Party, agrees that the opportunity to learn Swedish at work should be strengthened. It is also an important part of the Elderly Care Lift that has now been implemented. We know that the staff's language skills are a quality aspect of care for the elderly. That is why I thank Jonas Sjöstedt for his positive answer that we can continue to work together to ensure that education is generally increased, that the status is raised and that everyone who works in Swedish care for the elderly has sufficient language skills.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-383	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the Prime Minister. It is time everyone received vocational training. Everyone who needs to receive Swedish education, and everyone gets permanent employment in the care of the elderly. That is one of the lessons to be learned. Another lesson is that there are also actors in home care and in retirement homes who have been less careful about the training of their staff, who have thought more about enriching themselves and making profits than that there should be good working conditions for those who work there. I am not saying that all private actors are rogue. That is not the case; some are serious and do good work, but there are also those who should actually not be doing home service, but something quite different. A stop to profit withdrawal from welfare and care for the elderly would make it easier to get things right there. I know the Prime Minister likes order!
i-2d61f04e66348f69-387	Madam President, I would like Swedish healthcare and care work for high pressure to take care of and handle the incredibly difficult situation we have ended up in. Both public and private actors work hard to protect life and health. Nevertheless, as we have just heard in the speech, Jonas Sjöstedt has chosen to take the opportunity, as usual, to strike at the private and independent actors in healthcare and care. He repeatedly blacks out the private carers, and he has now even threatened to take over private carers. In a situation where the country is in crisis and we see that we need all health care providers so well, both public and private, would it not be nice if Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party could put this rhetoric aside and instead commend those who are working every day to help others?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-390	Madam President, I would like If Anders W Jonsson had listened to the last line change, he would have heard that I said that some private actors are doing excellent work. Others do so far from it. This also applies to health care. Some went in directly and helped relieve the burden of public health care. But I also talked to regional politicians in Stockholm who said that there are trained IVA staff needed in our hospitals but that are not released by the private ones. That's completely unreasonable. Those who work in public health have to work much harder. We have seen that private operators did not want to release protective equipment, which must be shared according to needs and not just by who happens to own it at the moment. That, too, seems to me to be unreasonable. The situation is therefore not as simple as Anders W Jonsson describes. We have been able to see beauty clinics, fully equipped with narcotics that are missing in the care, which work with beauty surgery instead of covid-19-care or other care needed. This shows that we need a coherent system, and we get that by removing the profit hunt in welfare. Then we also get more money for welfare.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-396	Madam President, I would like This shows the breaks through which the Left Party sees the whole of Swedish society. In a situation where there are problems and great challenges, you can find something that you can criticize private care providers or private elderly care for. It is so in Sweden that it works very well in most clinics within most of the elderly care. But then there are shortcomings in public health care. There are shortcomings in private-run care. In that situation, we should of course, not least after this crisis, see what we can do to raise quality standards together. But Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party do not deny themselves, but they also use this very difficult situation to look around and see if there is a private health operator somewhere who has made a mistake that one can hang out. The fact that mistakes also occur in public health care does not, as usual, concern the Left Party and Jonas Sjöstedt at all. It would have been nice to put aside the left rhetoric at least in this crisis.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-400	Madam President, I would like The whole health care system benefits from taking the profit hunt out of health care. We can see that private operators with a profit-making interest establish themselves where public health is best. There is often an over-establishment of primary care in particular, whereas it is the other way around where public health is the worst, contrary to the intentions of the Health Act. We can see that this affects the priorities. Combined with private health insurance that makes you take priority in gender, it puts equal health care out of play. We can see that priority schemes do not last when private profit interests come in, and we can see that the money is leaking. Instead, money that would have gone to holiday covens, to new equipment and to education goes to private profits. I want every penny to go to a well-functioning coherent healthcare system where the most evil back is examined first, not the one who has private health insurance or lives in a neighborhood where public health is good and the over-establishment of private carers is great.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-404	Madam President, I would like Susanne Wintell and her colleagues in orthopaedic surgery in Mölndal were thrown into corona care. Usually she works on average every four weekends. After the crisis transition, she has worked longer days, twice as many weekends and three shifts. I would also like to quote her. It's pretty tough conditions to work with this protective equipment. It's hot and sweaty... there's a very high noise level inside the halls. It's physically heavy. It's patients who are so sick, so it's crazy. ..................................................... The Christian Democrats and the Left Party agreed only a few days ago to propose together targeted support to help civil society through the crisis. Now I wonder whether we can agree to call on the Prime Minister to gather all parties to produce a crisis package for health professionals here and now. It may be too late this fall.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-407	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ebba Busch! I thought I'd get that question. Our answer is yes. We are absolutely prepared to sit down and look at this. Ebba Busch points to important problems. Many of those who have worked incredibly hard get very limited summer holidays. They need rest and recovery. They would be worth an extra vacation week, I think, as proof of our appreciation. We are prepared to review how the situation can be improved, for example by ensuring that private carers also help and relieve during the summer. We think it is reasonable for the overall system to be used. It should be done automatically that those who are medically trained get a leave of absence from their job to go back to health care. Some employers say yes, but not everyone does. We are prepared to sit down and discuss extra money for health care. It's going to be necessary. The regions are planning to cut back. If the government doesn't invite – and they're bad at inviting in these days – we'll be happy to talk to you.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-412	Madam President, I would like Sometimes the differences between the Left Party and the Christian Democrats are very clear. Sometimes we agree on the goal but have different ways to get there. But one thing Jonas Sjöstedt should have in this House today, and that is that he is clearly saying yes to trying to bring together several parties to do something concrete on this issue that may have an effect this year too, but also has concrete ideas of his own to achieve this. We have our proposals, so let us see which proposals come on the table and discuss them further. However, I am very grateful to Jonas Sjöstedt for his reply.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-414	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that. One of the things we won't want to use the money for is new consulting parties at New Karolinska. That's it. One can be a little more concerned about the money than the bourgeoisie has been in Stockholm.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-416	Madam President, I would like It is sad to enter now, into the new, glorious, fine fellowship between the Christian Democrats and the Left Party. It's starting to look like an old, dear relationship, where you celebrate each other, but then you get a little on top of it and say something sour instead of giving really good positive feedback. You don't really fit together, I can tell you, but I'm not interfering in your relationship. I am pleased that we in Sweden have had the opportunity to save the Swedish companies. At the beginning of the crisis, it was a lot about saving as much as we can, because the day we get out of the crisis we need a Swedish business community that can lift us up and create the prosperity that brings prosperity, Jonas Sjöstedt. That welfare we liberals want to go to care for the elderly, to an older care lift. It has to be paid. New nurses and nurses and, preferably for us, more doctors have to be paid. It costs money, and this is the basis for prosperity. But why does the Left Party want to stop support for larger companies?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-420	Madam President, I would like We live in a new political era, when the Liberals attack the Left Party in order not to contribute to Sweden's big business. It is also an interesting political time. I mean that has a company very capital-strong owners it is primarily the owners who get to go in. Of course we will help small and medium-sized enterprises. This aid may even need to be increased, particularly in various sectors. But pump money into companies where you sit on billions, where you may even give dividends in the meantime, do not we in the Left Party. We're looking out for taxpayers' money. Reducing employers' contributions for all is very inefficient. Go in with measures where you're actually in crisis! But not all parts of Sweden's entrepreneurship are in crisis. Some are doing really well, and there is no reason to support them. You have to be more careful with taxpayers' money. We will also have money left when we kick-start the economy and ensure that the investments get started. It is a wise and gentle policy. We know that the Liberals nowadays do as the companies say, but we also have to think for ourselves.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-424	Madam President, I would like We meet a lot of people at small and large companies who talk about a very tough situation, where you struggle to keep your employees and overwinter. For them, it has been tough, whether it's Volvo – where Jonas Sjöstedt once worked himself, although it was a while ago – the small restaurant, the small shoemaker or the small gas station. People who run these businesses or the Swedish clothing industry or the Swedish retail trade – everywhere these subsidies have enabled their companies to live on. They wouldn't have done that if the Left Party had been left to decide. You had removed the support by reducing employers' contributions, because you think it is ineffective. You had removed the support for conversion, which means that these companies get some compensation and can survive the summer and even when the wheels may spin again this autumn. You had stopped this, and it had caused great damage to the Swedish economy.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-426	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has voted in favour of a number of the proposals that now make Swedish companies do well. I'd say the short-term layoffs are the most important. They have also been used extensively by our larger companies. I talked to my old colleagues at Volvo last night. Some of them have been on short-term leave. This is good, targeted support, which saves Swedish jobs and makes companies survive. I think we should also look a little bigger at this. If you do as the Liberals advocate, then when companies make profits, it goes to the owners of the companies. When companies make losses, it is sent to taxpayers. That is not how a market economy should work. With such a system in general, companies will take greater risks. It is reasonable to have one's own financial responsibility even in very difficult times, especially if you have billions in the cash box. Then you have to take some out of that chest first, before you take money from metal workers and nurses.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-428	Madam President, I would like The crisis is not over; it is evident not least in health care. If we do not get a quick turn, we risk the endurance of Swedish health professionals. Ever since the Corona virus reached Sweden, the workload of health professionals has been inhuman. Many have been forced to move between different departments, different teams and different units. They have been forced to live with their own and relatives' constant fears that they themselves will be infected while helping others. What health professionals now experience can be likened to running a marathon at the same speed as a hundred-metre race. It works for a while, but in the long run everyone understands that it is untenable. And it will be a long race, for when the coronapandemia is over, there is a great debt of deferred care left to deal with – a health debt. I think some people have understood that what I hope most of all today is that all parties promise to sit down and negotiate a crisis package for healthcare and health professionals. We have managed to do this for business and businesses, and that has been a good thing. But now a crisis package is needed for nurses, nurses and doctors. If all the heroes of care after the holiday are immediately thrown into new moving carousels and new overtime weeks, sick leave will happen. Patients will be harmed, and confidence in health care risks falling. The time is short as summer holidays are already starting. The medical personnel need our help now – this autumn it may be too late.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-432	Madam President, I would like During this crisis, we have seen major shortcomings in care for the elderly. People with symptoms have not dared to stay at home. We've had flaws in hygiene procedures. There are also great differences between different parts of our country – about fifty deceased in Malmö and nearly one thousand in Stockholm. In a few days' time, the Health and Care Inspection will point to the shortcomings and what needs to be corrected. Then, of course, the Corona Commission will also review why so many people have died in retirement homes. However, this does not prevent us from strengthening long-term care for the elderly here and now. That is why we are carrying out a care lift. The government is thus providing large resources, but it is out in the municipalities that the job is actually done. After the review carried out by IVO next week, can our parties agree that we are helping to correct the shortcomings found in the care of the elderly in the various municipalities?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-436	Madam President, I would like The short answer to that question is yes. I believe that in the crisis we have been and are still in and will have to deal with for a long time in our municipalities in the future, it is absolutely essential that, regardless of the conclusions that are now being reached, we should be helped – both from the national level to support the local level and from the local level to alert both the shortcomings so far under the coronap and what needs to be strengthened further.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-437	Madam President, I would like It was a welcome message. We agree that the shortcomings of care for the elderly need to be dealt with with with a great deal of action. As Ebba Busch says, it is about the national level, where we must ensure that there are resources, but also about the local level, which must ensure that there is strong care for the elderly around our country. I thank you for that message. We await the IVO report and do our best from it to ensure that care for the elderly is strengthened in the best possible way.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-439	Madam President, I would like I have nothing to recall against the Prime Minister's description and emphasis, but this is an addition to the fact that, in the situation we have now been in with a global pandemic that has also reached Sweden with great force, we see that some of the usual routines and levels of responsibility that we are used to being able to lean on do not always work. There we now need to have great humility for the coming time. Perhaps further action is needed where we need to support from the national level with more political guidance on either guidelines or actual decisions to ensure that what we all agree on – our common good intentions – also comes about now that much is set on an exception and will remain different for a long time to come.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-440	Madam President and Ebba Busch! We have had an appallingly high mortality rate in the corona of our retirement homes. Stockholm has been a bit of an epicentre for this. A large proportion of the deceased in Sweden are unfortunately linked to elderly care in Stockholm. In Stockholm's municipality there is a bourgeois majority, and the Christian Democrats have a special responsibility for elderly care. There have been some things there that I mean are not so good. Reductions have been made and general efficiency requirements have been introduced. The removal of the requirement for permanent full-time employment in the home service made the situation more difficult. Civility voted in 2016 against demands for work clothes and dressing rooms in home care. For example, it is important not to have to travel collectively in your work clothes and to be able to change them when they have something on them. My question to Ebba Busch Thor is: Does she mean that the bourgeois majority and Christian Democrats should have done otherwise in the care of the elderly in Stockholm?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-443	Madam President, I would like I think it is well known to all party leaders that sometimes, if you yourself had continued as municipal councillor and not, as in my case, become party leaders, you would have done differently from your local politicians. However, I would like to emphasise a few things with regard to Stockholm. For example, the allowance has been increased in the home care sector. It has been argued that, for example, the cost of clothing for staff should be covered. It can divide s as to what is the right path. For example, the objective of increasing the number of permanent posts has been reformulated, with the very clear ambition to reduce the number of hours worked. I would like to emphasise that there are now parts where we at national level actually have to say: you have done a lot in the municipalities, but that has not been enough. I would like to see a conversion aid from national level to convert hourly contracts into permanent contracts.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-446	Madam President, I would like I fully agree – we must ensure that those who are currently employed on an hourly basis become permanent employees and receive vocational training in the care of the elderly. The goal should be for everyone to have it. However, I believe that there is still a particular responsibility with regard to bourgeois politics, which should always press costs, as has been done in Stockholm. You cut down on an already anorexic elderly care so that it becomes fragile. In fact, you recently voted against demands to transform precarious jobs in home care in Stockholm Municipality, Ebba Busch. I find it unreasonable that people did not vote for the right to work clothes and dressing rooms. I hope that we can all learn the lessons from this – not being too cheap to the common care of the elderly but letting it cost what it should cost.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-448	Madam President, I would like I agree with a lot of this, and therefore I think it is important to point out that Stockholm, where the situation was difficult with large spreads of infection compared with the rest of Sweden, chose, for example, to introduce restraining orders 12 days before the national came. It was a difficult decision to make at the local level. Like other municipalities, the City of Stockholm has also been severely affected by the lack of clarity about, for example, protective equipment. Just take note of Kommunal's reports on this. It is also important to emphasise that the compensation for home care in Stockholm has been increased, for example. However, we want to continue to give priority to elderly care, both in reforms that make a difference and in crowns and in the ear. It was therefore remarkable that last spring the January parties chose to reduce the national budget for elderly care by 310 million. I look forward to more resources and more reforms that can make a difference to elderly care.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-451	Madam President, I would like In recent times we have seen, via news and social media, terrible images of how racism in the U.S. police has extinguished another life. Many of us have felt anger and expressed our support for those who stand up to oppression, as well as Ebba Busch. It's good that Ebba Busch writes in his social media that black lives count. However, such statements must also reflect the political choices made. Just now we saw Ebba Busch here in the Chamber inviting Jimmie Åkesson and SD to cooperate. The Swedish Democrats are not an ordinary party. It was not long ago that we heard one of the party's highest representatives pronounce that neither Sami nor Jews are Swedes. My question to Ebba Busch is: How do you reason when you are willing to give influence to a party like the Swedish Democrats while you say you stand up for the equal value of all people?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-455	Madam President, I would like I reason in the same way I do when we sit down and talk to the Green Party. Despite some different political approaches to several political issues, I know from our Christian Democratic ideology, our fundamental values and our whole justification for existence in politics, in general and in Sweden, as a counterforce to Communism and Nazism after the Second World War, which was based on making a difference between people, exactly where the border is. I know what questions I am prepared to discuss with which parties and how far I am prepared to negotiate. The same applies whether I negotiate on individual issues with the Left Party, the Green Party or the Swedish Democrats. Then there is a difference for me which parties I am prepared to sit in government with. Although the Green Party and the KD can settle on many issues, I think it would be more difficult for us to sit together in a government position because we are further apart politically. The same applies, for example, to the Swedish Democrats.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-458	Madam President, I would like I understand that Ebba Busch thinks the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats are about as unthinkable. But there is a big difference between our roots and those of the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats have recently changed their party program and replaced obscure theories about inherited essences with equally murky reasoning about the biological heritage and innate egoism. I don't think any other party devotes so much effort to explaining people's alleged innate nature in its political programme as the Swedish Democrats do. It's really a little bit of biology from the past on those sides. If you, Ebba Busch, want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, can you mention a single Swedish democratic reform that would make a life better for racialised, asylum seekers, refugees and unaccompanied people and the world safer and where human rights are at the centre?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-460	Madam President, I would like Let me do some consumer information by the La Löfven. I am the leader of the Christian Democrats, no other party. I am rather tired of rhetorical grips where people want to hold me accountable for individual statements made by other parties. My spine doesn't change from who I'm talking to. I will not review the policy of the Swedish Democrats. I will stand by my policy and see if there is a chance to make a difference for the staff in elderly care and the elderly in Sweden and whether there is a chance to make a difference for those who are working hard in health care and patients who need care. If the Swedish Democrats have a commitment and want to settle this issue, I am prepared to do so – for the good of Sweden and on the basis of our compass and our values. I would like to see this commitment from the Green Party too. In this way, I would like the debate on Black live maths and how we stand up to anti-racism to be used in the future.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-463	Madam President, I would like No matter where in the country we live, we shall have the right to care for the elderly with security, integrity and dignity. This pandemic has exposed Sweden's insufficient care for the elderly. The testimony from relatives to year-long cuts into the bone marrow of us. For many, care for the elderly is lacking precisely in security, integrity and dignity. In the 1980s, we liberals fought for people's right to a room of their own in the care of the elderly. Now we need our own teams for home helpers. It is unreasonable for an elderly, fragile person to face 10 to 20 new faces a week, regardless of the pandemic. Older people and staff need to understand each other. Those working in care for the elderly must have sufficient knowledge of Swedish, and the municipalities must provide the necessary training. The elderly should be able to be safe in the care of the elderly, but also the staff. This goes hand in hand. Good conditions for elderly care are also better for the staff, and staff who are safe and comfortable have better opportunities to do a good job. The elderly care lift is a good start for more nurses and nurses. We also want more knowledge in care for the elderly, so more doctors are needed. We want it again to be possible to hire doctors in care for the elderly. We believe that this is the right way to provide the best care on the ground. We also believe that a national knowledge centre is needed to increase knowledge about elderly care and its challenges in the future, because it will be tough whether we invest more resources. Liberals are a party that throughout its history has pushed on for the most vulnerable and for a better elderly care. That's what we're going to do.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-469	Madam President, I would like During the spring, the government has presented a series of additional amending budgets to deal with the crisis. During this work we have worked closely and well with the Liberals, and I thank you for that. It is no secret that we sometimes have slightly different starting points and priorities. But that's the way it should be; that's the politics. Cooperation is a rewarding and taking, and we have done a lot of work and come up with many good and necessary measures to deal with this crisis. The crisis shows a great need for investment in health care, care for the elderly and school, and I hope that we can agree that welfare must come first in the political priority, also when we are about to restart the economy. Do the Liberals share the view that the needs of welfare are great and that that is what we should prioritise?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-473	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Liberals share the view that prosperity is created through work and skilled Swedish companies, which can not least export. That is how you create resources and can take in taxes for what is important. Welfare is, of course, central. I just mentioned the Old Care Lift as something that's going to cost. Liberals have even higher ambitions, so we are, of course, prepared to finance this. But I also see that we will have a classic conflict – how to recreate new resources in the Swedish economy. Some say: Raise taxes! We don't belong to them. We believe it is important to focus on entrepreneurship. That's how you get new jobs, that's how you get growing companies and that's how you get new tax revenues in Sweden. We in the Liberals also strongly point to our reboot program. We look at the importance of a good research proposal, for today's research and the welfare of the future. We are looking at housing renovations, and we will look at infrastructure investments that are absolutely necessary, that build Sweden strong and that in the long term are also good for welfare.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-477	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Liberals also see the needs. It is what we are doing now during the crisis, but we are also looking forward to what is to be done in the long term. We have a great need to cover our well-being, and I look forward to continued cooperation. I agree with the analysis that it is tax revenue through labour that is the basis. That is why we must ensure that the economy is restarted with a view to getting as many people as possible to work as quickly as possible. Then the investments we make in welfare are important, as is consumption in the public sector, i.e. health care, care and so on. Liberals are afraid of increased taxes, and then one might wonder: Is it time for major tax cuts to come? I believe that that time is not now, but now is the time to make sure that our welfare works. Then we cannot afford major tax cuts.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Prime Minister. Absolutely! We have now devoted ourselves to saving as much as we can from the wealth-creating forces, in addition to ensuring that people have food on the table, have security systems that work and are easier to join the unemployment fund and so on. This has been reasonable, and major efforts have been made in the public sector to enable people to cope with the tasks of health care, at school and, for that matter, in the judiciary. Now we're about to sum up. We will start doing this in the summer. And we're going to look at the autumn budget. We are doing this, to be completely honest. There's room to do temporary things. I think that things that are done during the crisis should be just temporary. I also understand that not least the Minister for Finance on the part of the government has been looking for scope to kickstart the economy. We do not know to what extent this may be needed, and then it may be temporary tax cuts to be made. In the long term, however, I think it is more important that we focus on increased tax revenues than on increased taxes. It's usually the best way.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-483	Madam President, I would like There is a shortage of staff in intensive care departments and corona departments. Medical personnel from other departments are now being taken in and relieved. But the high tempo means that you don't always have time for training. According to neonatal nurse Rosanna Svensson, learning new equipment and not knowing any colleagues was a shock. She told SVT that after her first shift, when she had been thrown into a corona ward. I know that the Liberals are protecting both staff and patients, and now they need more. Can we agree to call on the Prime Minister to gather all parties to produce a crisis package for health professionals here and now? It may be too late this fall.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-485	Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals have nothing against more parties participating in the future as well. The party leaders' talks that have been held regularly to deal with the acute crisis may well turn into looking at how to solve the problems that exist. I also meet that picture. I meet friends and close friends who make contributions. It is people who leave the pharmaceutical industry, where it is a bit difficult to book meetings, to work in the emergency room. They are impressed by the work and the heroes who are now performing amazing efforts to save human lives and relieve pain. I think it's of course interesting. However, I would like to emphasise that it is hard money for the regions that is crucial, because that is how we can ensure that crisis wage agreements and reasonable overtime payments are paid to those people who may now choose to cancel their holiday. Wherever I meet with regional politicians and where Liberals are involved, it is about making sure that people get breathing space and some summer vacation.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-488	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the commitment of the Liberals and feel that there is an openness to call for meetings to negotiate a crisis package. I would like to emphasise that this has to be done this year. I would also like to underline what Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson have said so many times: money is not the problem. If more state-level funding is needed to solve it at the level of the regions, they should be sure that they have it. And I am confident with the information I have received from the government on this issue, but now it is about ensuring what it actually looks like in the regions. We don't know if they're gonna make the holidays. We know that the regions do not have a full plan to ensure that there will be a reasonable breathing space when staff return after the holiday. To ensure that this happens, I would like us, now that the regions and also many local politicians are working so hard, to come together on proposals and reforms in a crisis package.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-490	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ebba Busch! I think it makes perfect sense. I would like to emphasise that we in this House are working structurally and thinking about how this is to be organised. It is something that becomes naked in this crisis – that the state governance of the regions is inadequate. It has had to take a stronger grip, but it may have been too late. Ebba Busch certainly thinks so, and I can agree to some extent with that. We see the same thing in the care of the elderly. We have 290 municipalities, and many even before the pandemic struggled to make their operations work. There have been recent investigations into the efficiency and future appearance of municipalities. When it comes to stronger government governance: Build on the money, but trust the profession! They're the ones who can run medical care. I can put Band-Aids on the kids, but I'm incredibly bad at giving covid care, I can say.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-492	Madam President, I would like When the Health Care Association last year asked its members if they were thinking of leaving their professions, almost half of them replied that yes, they do, mainly because of poor working environment. Mental illness is the main reason for sick leave today. It's not sustainable. It is a huge waste of people and of society's resources and a terrible mark on the working environment. The Corona crisis has certainly brought health and care workers to the fore. They work day and night and evening and weekends caring for the sick and the weak. I would really like to thank them for all their enormous efforts during this difficult time. We must ensure that these heroes and heroines receive more than applause and that we create a better and more sustainable working environment in the long term. It is important here and now, but it is also important for the future. We see a great need for more staff and that more people should want to apply for employment in health care. In order to achieve this, working conditions must be improved. The Green Party therefore wants to introduce a separate sustainability pool of half a billion SEK over three years that will provide greater opportunities for recovery and greater flexibility for employees. Investing and investing in staff working conditions is investing in better healthcare and care. We also want to extend the Elderly Care Lift, which involves training on paid working hours and the possibility of more permanent employment and a better working environment. No one should feel lonely at work, and everyone should be able to be a fellow human being even at work, especially those who work with the elderly and the sick. The Corona crisis has exposed many of society's vulnerabilities. We cannot move forward as before after the crisis. We now have time to restart, and we need to rethink and choose another path.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-497	Madam President, I would like My impression is that there is an ever-widening consensus that Sweden needs a tight immigration policy for a long time if we are to have any chance of coping with the integration problems that we have. Now the migration investigation is entering its last lap. My impression is that the Green Party seems to stand in the way of any tightening up of a long-term Swedish migration policy and thus stand in the way of an agreement that becomes broad – not volume targets, not effective return, not more detention places and not even temporary residence permits with requirements for self-sufficiency. My simple question is: will the Green Party stop the government from putting forward a proposal that reflects a broad majority for a sustainable migration policy?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-500	Madam President, I would like I thank Ulf Kristersson for the question. I would like to start by recalling that the so-called temporary law agreed in 2015 places Sweden at a minimum level in the European Union. For the Green Party and for the government, it is important that we have a long-term, humane and legally secure refugee and migration policy. The Green Party participates under these conditions and with these entries in the Migration Committee. We want a long-term, legally secure and humane refugee and migration policy. We see no sign that the wars in the world will subside in the near future. People will be forced to flee, just like all the hundreds of thousands of people who have fled the war in Syria. There must be countries that can accept the people who flee. There is no volume limit for human suffering. As long as it does not, we must also stand up for solidarity.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-503	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is certainly a rather small party and far from the broad mainstream that now exists in Swedish immigration policy. That is not why I am asking the question, but because in practice the Green Party has the right of veto against any proposal to be tabled. For everyone else in the Migration Committee, it is absolutely crucial to know whether any compromises and agreements are just a paper product that will then be negotiated with the Green Party in a government position, or whether one can seriously settle up real and sharp policies that change Swedish immigration policy. There we want to know whether the answer is yes or no.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-504	Madam President, I would like It was not long ago that the Green Party and the Moderates agreed to give, for example, children of undocumented schooling rights and that we should also have exceptions and valves for particularly tender reasons. It was a time when the party leader talked about opening our hearts to those who actually need protection and support. I cannot see that the world around us has changed much for the better since then. We should not describe all those who have come to our country as just a problem. One in four people working in health care today is born abroad. Every third doctor is born abroad. It is not that we have a higher purpose for us to shut people out and not give them a chance to also establish themselves, create a better future and help in Sweden. The Green Party participates in the discussions of the Migration Committee. We hope that we can have a common view of a long-term, humane and legally secure migration policy. It deserves both Sweden and those who flee from war and conflict.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-507	Madam President, I would like Actually, I didn't listen much to Isabella Lövin. But I listened to what she said in the line shift with Ebba Busch earlier. I find it a little remarkable, Madam President, that you choose to take a line in this House on one party and then, in this line, you attack a completely different party. I don't think we should do this. It is ugly, dishonest and befits no one, and certainly not a minister of our realm, to act in that way. To the point: Do the Green Party and Isabella Lövin really mean that the fact that hundreds of thousands, and probably millions, of people in our country are concerned about the irresponsible immigration policy that Isabella Lövin's own government and other governments have been pursuing in Sweden for decades is the same thing as advocating racism and police violence? Is that a serious view of the Green Party?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-509	Madam President, I would like I thank Jimmie Åkesson for the question. The Swedish Democrats express very strange positions in their party programme that are based on the fact that there are certain biological differences between us humans. I find this to be a very worrying point of view. It is worth highlighting when other parties want to pretend that the Swedish Democrats are a party like everyone else. I think that we should have a long-term sustainable migration and refugee policy and, above all, that we must give people a chance to establish themselves and integrate into Swedish society. I do not think that this position is equal to racism – absolutely not. We must ensure that we have an open society where we stand up for human rights. Maybe next time we'll be forced to flee. That is what migration policy is based on.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-512	Madam President, I would like I agree with Isabella Lövin that we should not divide people and value people based on biological properties. The Green Party has a Member of Parliament who, as far as I know, still belongs to the Green Party and who wants the Central Statistical Office to register our population based on ethnic and skin colour. It goes against what Isabella Lövin just said here. In our party, such a person had been disfellowshipped faster than quickly. Does the Green Party do that too? Does the Green Party exclude people who want to register the population based on ethnicity and skin colour, or can one continue to represent the Green Party in the Swedish parliament if one has this view?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-515	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the Green Party does not think that we should register people according to their skin colour or ethnicity. On the other hand, there may be a discussion about whether one needs to have a clearer picture of how injustice and unequal conditions affect different groups within the population. This discussion exists not least in the United States and in other countries. But that is not the opinion of the Green Party. We are, of course, fully aware that there are very different conditions for different citizens and groups depending on what origin you have, what gender you have or whether you have a disability or similar. This discussion must be able to continue but on the basis of the equal value of all human beings. That is what is absolutely central to how the Green Party views people.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-516	Madam President, I would like There is a clear link between sexual harassment and precarious employment. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's studies show that those who have precarious jobs are more often subjected to sexual harassment. It was an important debate in connection with the Metoo campaign, and several trade unions have pointed this out. This is one of the things that must now be taken into account when the government wants to break job security in Sweden and when the investigation comes that so seriously undermines the trade union movement's ability to defend its members in the event of redundancies. I wonder whether the Green Party has thought about this and whether this issue is something that you consider when you receive this investigation? Nor do I think that the Green Party has really stepped out and taken this debate on the Employment Protection Act. What does the Green Party think? Do you support the investigation's proposal? Do you think it is reasonable that it should be more arbitrary in the event of redundancies in Sweden?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-519	Madam President, I would like I thank Jonas Sjöstedt for the question. What the Green Party hopes and wants is that the parties will be able to come to an agreement and that the talks that are now taking place will lead to something. What we see, of course, is that the labour market has also changed with technological development. Much more development is needed during a long working life – that you have the opportunity to develop skills at work, that the employer should be able to take this responsibility and that you may also need to change industry in the middle of life. There's a lot going on. There is therefore reason to review labour security legislation. But we see that right now in the Corona crisis, the focus needs to be on the need for permanent employment in health and long-term care. That is the great thing that needs to be prioritised. That is why we also have proposals to continue with the Elderly Care Lift and a special sustainability pot.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-521	Madam President, I would like I share the view that permanent employment should be normal in the Swedish labour market. That is why it is so unreasonable for an investigation to be presented that destroys the job security of all and provides a sort of general probationary period, as some trade unions have put it. If the parties do not agree on this investigation – they will negotiate under threat – and there will be legislation in the Swedish parliament, are you in favour of or against this investigation proposal? We know that the Centers and Liberals are pushing for it to be implemented. The Social Democrats have started to back down. But from the Green Party, I have heard nothing. What do you think of the investigation proposal?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-523	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt may not have followed the debate very closely. I have said that I believe that the proposals of the investigation are not entirely balanced. I think that we need to have an equal focus on the situation of workers in a varied and more flexible and vulnerable labour market and that we need to put forward proposals on security at work. I therefore share the view of the Minister for Labour on the proposal from the investigator, but of course we need to continue the discussion. It is perhaps not, however, precisely this debate that Sweden needs right now. Now we see that the urgent needs of the labour market are about stable and secure employment, not least for those in the care of the elderly. This is what has led workers, unfortunately, to go to work with infection, possibly.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-525	Madam President, I would like Katja Fogelberg is an intensive care nurse at Huddinge Hospital. She is one of those who work under crisis agreements, and during the pandemic she has worked 12, 5-hour sessions up to four days in a row, wearing protective masks and heavy equipment. To Svenska Dagbladet she says:中 It is difficult to describe how difficult it is with the equipment. It itches, the mask squeezes. It presses on the eyes or on the nose. The skin becomes red and pain sensitive. She tells us how colleagues use sponges and patches to protect the skin areas where the protective equipment chafes. The slogan of the Green Party is, what if, what if we could give the health workers the support they now need? Can we agree to call on the Prime Minister to bring all parties together to agree on a health care emergency package, here and now? It may be too late this fall.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-527	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment to older people and care issues, Ebba Busch! It's very important. However, I find it difficult to understand exactly what Ebba Busch is asking about. We have, of course, advanced more than 28 billion to regions and municipalities in order for them to have all possible resources to cope with the Corona crisis. We are willing to continue to provide support and to bear all the costs necessary to cope with the Corona crisis, and this, of course, also includes the supply of personnel. At the moment, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with looking at how to manage staff supply during the summer as well as the recovery and health care debt during the autumn. I do not believe that we, from a political point of view, will hatch the perfect solution that the regions have not hatched.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-529	Madam President, I would like In fact, I am a little surprised by the answer – that is the most negative answer I have received so far today. I have really underlined and commended the clear and clear information given by the government in terms of funding and support for health care if it is more money that is needed. However, I think that the example of the tests, where the Government's ambition of 100 000 and perhaps up to 150 000 tests were crystal clear but where the implementation at regional level and how to reach the target were not as clear, shows why I believe that in a national pandemic we must have national care leadership. Leadership must also be prepared to ensure that health professionals are not left wind for the scales. We do not know what it looks like in the regions; there is no overview of whether the staff will actually get a holiday, and there are no concrete proposals to ensure that they have a sustainable situation thereafter. That is the kind of reforms I am looking for, and I want to know if we can find an opportunity to agree there.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-532	Madam President, I would like To avoid ambiguities, I fully agree with what Ebba Busch wants to highlight. It is about the need for human resources and the need for recovery for our healthcare professionals during the summer, and it is important to pass the autumn when we have a large health debt. We will certainly sit down and talk about how to move forward on this issue, but it is not that the question is not on the table. The National Board of Health and Welfare is looking at this, and the resources are available. While I have the floor, I would also like to talk about the long-term sustainability of health professionals. Here the Green Party has a proposal for a sustainability pot where you can try new working time models or work environment reforms that may cost the employer a little bit more but where the state can go in and cover for it. It would be very welcome if the Christian Democrats agreed to this.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-536	Madam President, I would like I have been given the mandate of the whole committee to prefer the KU report on remote participation in the meetings of committees or EU committees. Covid-19 has created a situation around the world and in Sweden, as well as in companies, organizations and here in the Riksdag, which no one could have anticipated. Some have passed voluntary agreements and improvisation; for example, the parliamentary parties have agreed that there are only 55 members present at votes. It maintains proportionality between parties but reduces the spread of infection and travel in the country. The committees play an important role in the Swedish parliamentary system based on assessment. But through the special committee principle, established with the one-chamber Parliament in 1971, the committees also become specialists in their fields of action. This assumes that decisions will gain in quality. However, there is also, of course, the aspect that the members of a committee get to know each other and may thus be able to find solutions to complex problems and issues more easily. At the same time, technological development has now created conditions that could not be foreseen when the form of government and the parliamentary order were written. There is therefore the possibility of remote participation. This possibility also involves risks, both of a safety nature and in terms of the quality of the processing of cases. The committee is therefore in favour of a regulation that allows remote participation in exceptional cases, but the physical meeting remains the norm. The proposal means that the Riksdag – or, if the Riksdag is prevented, the Speaker, who is then supposed to anchor its decision with the parties in the Riksdag – may decide that special reasons allow members to participate remotely and thus count as attending the meeting. The person who leads the meeting and the office must be in place where the Riksdag meets, i.e. normally in Stockholm. As far as the EU Board is concerned, there are greater demands for flexibility, and the rules are therefore more liberal. We believe that with this regulation we can meet the challenges that society and parliament can face while maintaining as high a quality as possible in the preparation of matters. I support the KU's unanimous proposal in the KU16.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-543	Madam President, I would like The committee has given me the task of presenting the committee's proposals, so that we in the Bureau share this. I would like to emphasise that our proposal is unanimous. This report deals with the Swedish National Audit Office and its management. The Swedish National Audit Office is part of the Swedish Parliament's supervisory power and will conduct independent audits of state and state-funded activities. The Swedish National Audit Office has recently acquired a new management structure. This means that since 1 April this year, the Swedish National Audit Office has been led by a single national auditor, who is head of the Swedish National Audit Office and is responsible for its activities before the Riksdag. A national auditor is appointed by the Riksdag for a term of seven years and cannot be re-elected. The Swedish National Auditor decides on what is to be reviewed, how the review is to be conducted and what conclusions are to be drawn from the review. The independence of the National Auditor is protected by the Constitution. Under the new rules, a deputy national auditor with the title of Director of the National Audit Office under the National Auditor will be responsible for the day-to-day administrative management of the Authority. A Director of the National Audit Office was elected in this Chamber on 13 May this year; it was therefore for the first time. A special investigator has been tasked with proposing provisions regarding the withdrawal period after completion of his duties as a national auditor. The investigator's assignment also included making proposals on the terms and conditions of departure for national auditors, in particular national auditors who terminate their duties prematurely. The investigator would also investigate the right to pension benefits for national auditors. The report also made proposals for a Director of the National Audit Office – this was not yet decided at the time. The report has been referred to. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Riksdag Board's proposal with some changes. The amendments proposed by the committee are mainly of a linguistic and editorial nature. What, then, is the reason why we should adopt these provisions? A national auditor shall enjoy the confidence of both the Riksdag and the public. In addition, a national auditor must demonstrate a high level of professional skills, extensive experience of public activities, high integrity and good judgment. Against this background, a national auditor should be in a position to carry out his or her duties without, in the meantime, having to worry about his or her livelihood on the date of termination of his or her duties. It is also of great importance that the conditions for a national auditor are predictable and favourable for the most suitable persons to be selected for the assignment. Neither a national auditor nor a director of the Swedish National Audit Office can be transferred to another assignment or another position within, for example, the Swedish Parliament Administration. Nor can a national auditor be re-elected, which should result in partially more favourable conditions. This proposal, among other things, clarifies the scope for retirement benefits for a national auditor and a director of the national audit, so that account should be taken of the special circumstances arising from their duties compared with those of the authorities under the government. Severance pay may be reduced in whole or in part if compensation appears unfair. Madam President, I would like It introduces a requirement for the review of restrictions for a national auditor and a director of the National Audit Office in the event of a transfer to other government or private activities. As in the case of the Minister of State and State Secretary, two different forms of restrictions can be announced: restrictions on substances or substances. Questions about transitional restrictions and so on should be examined by the Board for Review of Transitional Restrictions of Ministers and State Secretary, which is an authority under the Riksdag. The committee intends to deal with the question of the name of this committee in a forthcoming matter. These laws, Madam President, are proposed to enter into force on 1 August this year. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-555	Madam President, I would like In this joint debate, I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 1 in the KU12 report and for the reservation in the KU23. However, I would like to make it clear that we naturally support the reservations of all the Swedish Democrats, although I do not support them in my speech. It is again time to debate election issues in the Swedish Parliament. It may seem to be a long way from the elections, but hopefully when the Riksdag gathers again after the summer break, we will already be there at halftime. Then there will be elections again in two years' time, and the question that is burning current right now is how this choice should be done. The Swedish electoral system is essentially solid, but there are areas that can be clearly improved. This has also been acknowledged by the government, and a new investigation has been commissioned to analyse certain such issues. However, the most important and important question, namely how to deal with the problems of the hundreds of millions of ballots printed at each election, is not even on the table. The Swedish National Audit Office states in the current review report that, for example, the foreclosure of ballot slips is unlikely to be necessary with a different system for ballot papers. Problems with queues, difficulties in keeping order among ballots, sabotage of various types and the need for larger premises and more voters would also decrease, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that one way to remedy these problems could be to replace the current ballot system with a system that requires fewer ballot papers. The observations of the National Audit Office are in line with the conclusions drawn by the Election Authority in its experience reports from the 2018 elections and the 2019 European Parliament elections, which I also expressed in this House and in this speaker's chair last time we debated this matter. It is therefore very sad that the government has not commissioned the parliamentary committee to investigate this now that the electoral system is finally to be investigated. Against this background, I believe that the government should entrust the parliamentary committee recently appointed by the government with the task of examining how a system of joint ballots can be introduced and in place for the 2022 elections. Another important issue is the issue of identification. Today it is possible to vote without legitimising oneself, for example by certifying the identity of the person who voted. We believe that there should be an absolute requirement for voters to legitimise themselves. The advantages of a requirement for identification are considered to be the potential drawbacks. If a mandatory identity check is introduced during voting, it is also possible to introduce mechanical cracks in the electoral roll, which would also remove the risk of incorrect cracks. This, too, is not a proposal in the investigation. It should also take the opportunity to review the need for national guidelines for election informers in terms of their training and control of their work. Several municipalities employ election informants for the elections. The reason for this is said to be to increase voting turnout in groups where participation is strikingly low. In election times, attention has been paid to several cases where people who are paid as election informants have also been political activists or have actively tried to sell votes. The guidelines should point to the importance of impartiality. In addition, we believe that the activities of election informants should be checked for the next elections. Madam President, I would like We need to remain sensitive to the development of society so that any problems and shortcomings are picked up early. Ensuring legitimacy and confidence in our electoral system is, in my view, the most important investment we can make for our democracy.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-565	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, the starting point is that Swedish democracy must be constantly defended. Democracy must also continuously develop and adapt to a changing world. It is therefore necessary to be constantly on our toes and to consider whether the protection of democracy is strong enough. There is, fortunately, a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on the need to do more to make our democracy stronger and more robust. As part of the January agreement, the government has set up two parliamentary committees to strengthen the basic protection of democratic structures and to increase the resilience of the electoral system to manipulation. Democracy is based on participation, and then everyone needs to have the opportunity to participate in and participate in the democratic processes themselves. It is about everything from the possibility of participating in elections to being able to access public documents. For the Center Party is an electoral system that is reliable of the utmost importance. Those who vote should be able to be sure that their vote really counts. They should also be able to be sure that the electoral secret is secure. The electoral system, in particular with regard to accessibility for persons with severe visual impairment, therefore needs to be reviewed. The question of how visually impaired people, and other electoral groups who may have difficulties in the current voting procedure, can use their secret ballots, will now be reviewed in the Parliamentary Committee for enhanced protection against manipulation of the electoral system. The Committee's task is also to propose measures to improve the opportunities for these very groups of voters. However, the question remains as to whether the electoral ballot system may need to be reviewed. I believe that the question of the electoral ballot system deserves to be discussed and problematised. The Election Act and the Elections Regulation contain detailed provisions on the ballot papers. Three types of ballot are used: party ballots, name ballots and blank ballots. All ballot papers shall contain an indication of the election in which they are intended to be used. The Election Regulation regulates the size of the ballot papers, the quality of their paper, the colour of yellow, blue and white, and the identity of the parties to provide all ballot papers. Since the elections to the European Parliament last spring, it is also possible for voters to write on the ballot papers the name of the candidate and the party they wish to vote for. According to the Election Authority, approximately 673 million ballots were printed for the 2018 elections, which corresponds to approximately 83 ballots per person entitled to vote. The total cost of purchasing ballot paper, printing and packaging of ballot papers amounted to just over SEK 28 million, excluding freight costs. Add to this a significant environmental impact in terms of transport, paper consumption and destruction and recycling, for those ballots not used in the elections are recycled or discarded. In view of the diversity and machinery of ballot papers, it is high time to question and test the validity of the current regime. How difficult are today's voters to see that this ballot system is? Nor has it been made easier for either voters or election officers to comply with the stricter requirements imposed in recent years on foreclosures of ballot stands. They certainly serve the legitimate purpose of strengthening the protection of the electoral secret. But we all know where the path lined with good intentions leads. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party are certainly not the first to be cautious about whether the current electoral ballot system is appropriate. The electoral authority, as the previous speaker mentioned, has, among other things, highlighted the need for a review of the electoral ballot system in the wake of the last three general elections to date in vain. The electoral authority considers that the need for a new system is both urgent and important. It believes that a new ballot system, both in total and in different types of ballot papers, would remove a number of the absolute greatest vulnerabilities in the electoral system. In its experience report after the 2018 elections, the Authority believes that the current system is causing problems that undermine confidence in the election as a whole. The international election observation effort in the elections of the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, Odihr, has also tried to draw the attention of us legislators to the need for a review. Most recently, as the previous speaker said, the Swedish National Audit Office has also highlighted precisely this problem and how to remedy the vulnerabilities and problems we see with queuing, foreclosures and the art of keeping order among ballots, which are certainly not simple. Madam President, I would like What, then, would be the solution and alternative to today's ballot system? The election authority highlights a system of neutral ballot papers, i.e. ballot papers without both pre-printed party designation and oppressed candidates, where the voter himself fills in a number for party and any person vote corresponding to parties and candidates who are candidates in the elections according to a written list. Such a system is currently used in Finland, among others. A system of neutral ballots has many advantages. The election authority points out that it would solve the problem of maintaining the secret of elections at polling stations and reduce the lack of clarity regarding the posting of ballot papers. It could also make the voting process simpler and the same, regardless of where and when the voter votes, and allow parties of any size to have a clearer and more level playing field. This would improve the preparedness for additional elections and the conduct of re-elections, as the printing and distribution of ballot papers is time-consuming. A smaller number of ballot papers and their re-use would also reduce costs and environmental impact. I therefore believe that the election authority's proposal to review the electoral ballot system as a whole, with a view to a simplified, improved and less vulnerable system in which the use of neutral ballots and a system of printing of one ballot per election and person are particularly considered, is in time and deserves serious discussion. In a changing world, we must continuously develop and adapt and our democracy. I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-578	Madam President, I would like An electoral system with great legitimacy is an important basis for democracy. Of course, the electoral system must therefore be constantly maintained and reviewed. Security risks, threats to electoral secrecy and other things therefore need to be constantly reviewed to see if improvements can be made. At the same time, there is great self-worth in the recognition of the electoral system by the voters. Therefore, a great deal of caution and caution is needed in case of changes. A parliamentary inquiry is now in place that will look at some different things. We look forward to the outcome of the investigation. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the KU12 and therefore reject all motions. KU has also had its own follow-up group that looked at the elections in 2018 and 2019. In 2018, the Elections Board received 723 appeals from the election, which is a record. One reason for this was that the Election Authority's website crashed on the election night. I think there are many of us who were frustrated at the time. Another reason is that appeals have become much easier with digitalisation. Just send an e-mail. Some of us also notice that in our email baskets. The follow-up team states that appeals should be easy. However, it should also be clear on the election authority's website what information an appeal should contain in order to ensure that the appeals received are valid. Prior to the 2019 elections, improved incident reporting was also introduced, which can improve the quality of the election process. The group also recommends that the Riksdag administration have good communication with the Election Review Board to ensure that the Election Review Board has sufficient resources to be able to carry out its work after the next election.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-584	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns something as serious and important as one of the preconditions for our democracy, namely our electoral system. It is the mechanics that make us sit here and that we can do it with democratic legitimacy. It is a system that has existed for a relatively long time in our modern history and is something that we must manage with great care. That is why I am happy to listen to my colleagues in the Constitutional Committee. They express the caution, responsibility and prudence that we need to exercise when we are determined to safeguard the legitimacy of our electoral system and the long-term confidence in the electoral system of those whose trust we have. That is, to say the least, a delicate task. It is therefore also important that all questions raised can be seriously discussed. This applies from what our ballot papers look like now and how that system can be improved to how appeals have taken place in the past, how they are going to happen now and how they are going to happen in the future. On the whole, I feel that we have a fairly broad consensus on what this should look like. I believe that this is also a prerequisite for the legitimacy of the system. Responsibility shines through when the Constitutional Committee debates this form of issue. Allow me to dwell for a moment on what the evaluation team has looked at in detail about appeals and that process. It is important to be able to question this important system. It is in itself a fundamental element of democracy that the question is always there. If our democratic systems are unable to be called into question and answer the questions that may possibly be asked, they simply do not meet the standard. However, for that process to be well-functioning and valuable, the resources needed to deal with the appeals and complaints that are in place and the quality of the questions asked must also be ensured. Madam President, I would like We need to develop this in such a way that when you ask the question and question what has happened through an appeal, you are also told that you have to develop and describe what it is that you really question. Who am I? How can supplementary questions possibly be asked if something is unclear about what I mean? I believe that today we have a potential for development. Sometimes it has been a little too easy to just let an email go away. It is difficult for the person who will then examine the appeal to get a complete picture of what has actually happened. In this way even things that should have been noticed more clearly can fall between the chairs. It should in turn be balanced against the fact that it must not be too difficult to make an appeal. It can in itself have an inhibitory effect on those who dare to make an appeal. There is a risk that you are afraid of making a fool of yourself or that you have difficulty putting words to what you have experienced or what you have noticed. It is a difficult balance that I hope the Elections Board will take forward in the future work. We also note in our report that this is something that we will have to continue to work on. We assume that this will be a focus area for future elections. Madam President, I would like Before I finish, I would like to say a few brief words about our ballot system. It is a system that we have had for a long period of time, and there is recognition in this. However, we must not ignore the obvious practical difficulties that this can sometimes bring. So we are not closing the door to a discussion. However, for such a discussion to be fruitful, a broad consensus and a great deal of caution are needed in the way we move forward with such a change to another system. The confusion that is at risk if there is a lack of support not only among our parties but above all among our constituents when, for the first time in your life, you come to a new ballot system and face it in the ballot box must not be underestimated. It is a great change we would make in such cases. That is something that, of course, must also be done with great care. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposals in both reports.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-598	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, all Swedish residents over the age of 18 may vote. But that has not always been the case. The struggle for equal and universal suffrage in Sweden was a long struggle. Already in 1884 came the first motion on female suffrage. Only 35 years later, after intensive and extensive work, the Swedish Parliament decided to introduce universal and equal voting rights. As the President is well aware, the Parliament takes note of this 100th anniversary of this term of office. We are celebrating this democratic anniversary throughout the parliamentary term because it took four years from the time the first decision was taken until the first five women MPs began to serve. Kerstin Hesselgren, Elisabeth Tamm, Agda Östlund, Nelly Thüring and Bertha Wellin pioneered something we see today as self-evident, female MPs. But, Madam President, was it the case that everyone had to vote after 1921? No. It did not get those who were sentenced to prison, not those who were in personal bankruptcy and not those who received welfare benefits from the poor, i.e. social welfare recipients. It did not get those who had tax debts and not those who were out of power. Only more than 30 years ago were each one of these different voting restrictions removed. What do I want to say about this? That voting rights and our electoral system change and improve over time. Madam President, I would like 100 years is a very long time for each of us as a person. Maybe we're lucky to live that long. But in a historical perspective, 100 years is a rather short time. What will the voting rights and electoral system look like in 100 years' time? What, then, will we consider to be obvious? In the reports discussed in this debate, the Left Party believes, as in the past, that voting rights should apply from the calendar year of its 18th birthday. We also want to see a reduced voting age to 16 years on trial in the municipal elections. We have a specific opinion on this but no reservation. Today you can only vote if you turn 18 by the day of the election. This means that everyone of the same year's age must not vote in the same election. Those who turn 18 the day after the election day do not have the right to vote in the elections but have to wait another four years until the next election. We find that order unfortunate. The habit of voting, Madam President, is established at a young age, and we know that voting turnout today is lower among first-time voters than in the rest of the population. The election information given to upper secondary school pupils during the election campaign by, for example, youth associations and parties is therefore particularly important. But the mobilizing effect is weakened by the fact that many of the students who are invited to vote in the elections and who sit in the classroom do not have the right to vote. Especially in matters relating to school, leisure, community planning and other areas that directly affect young people's everyday lives, we think it is reasonable and desirable for young people to have an influence. We therefore believe that attempts should be made to reduce the voting age to 16 so that the average age of first-time voters falls from 20 years to 18 years in the municipal elections. This would mean that a majority of first-time voters go to high school for the first time they have the right to vote. It would also allow the school system to develop and expand its democratic work and support first-time voters who need to navigate among political proposals and ideologies. Madam President, I would like For democracy to work, a well-functioning electoral system and high turnout are crucial. It is therefore important to continuously review and evaluate our electoral system. The audit of the 2019 EU elections by the Swedish National Audit Office is therefore valuable for the work of the appointed committee, which will review the electoral system in certain parts. However, I think it is important to emphasise that we already have today a good electoral system that is both legally secure and reliable. But there may certainly be some elements that should be improved. To this end, the Committee has the task of reviewing how to further strengthen the electoral confidentiality and accessibility of the electoral system. As has been said before, within the committee we have had a group that has followed up the elections in 2018 and 2019. In it we note that the number of appeals has increased over the last few years and that many of these are unfortunately incomplete. We therefore believe that it must be made clearer how to appeal against an election. It is important that all persons entitled to vote know in a simple way how and in what way to appeal. Otherwise, the legitimacy of the electoral system could be eroded. Madam President, I would like One obvious starting point is that the electoral system should be reliable and that those who vote should be able to be sure that each vote really counts. The election authority's reports from the last elections show that this is also the case and that the elections as a whole have been conducted both legally and effectively.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-613	Madam President, I would like Out of respect for keeping our association here as brief as possible, although we certainly all have a little debate withdrawal right now, and since colleagues in the Constitutional Committee have already mentioned most things that need to be said, I will be as brief as possible. I shall focus on the issues for which the Liberals have not yet obtained a majority in this House. Election Day, the second Sunday in September every four years, is still a holiday for many. It is, as we know, when all citizens entitled to vote cast their votes, who decide among other things who will have the honour of standing and debating in this House or in our regional and municipal councils. Liberals think that we should have different election days to the different political levels, for example, because we believe that local politics, where a decisive part of public welfare policy is decided upon, is obscured by rich politics. We simply do not believe that accountability will be as clear as it would have been with separate election days. However, Madam President, since we have not yet obtained a majority for separate voting days in this House, we are working on it. In Sweden we still have a high turnout. Most people feel called, and that's how it should be in a functioning democracy. That's how it has to be. No one should feel that your voice is worth less than anyone else's. Therefore, it is incredibly important that people with disabilities do not experience obstacles in the polling station when they are about to cast their votes, that voters with mother tongues other than Swedish should be able to take on the information and that voters regardless of age, gender and culture should know how to vote. That is why the polling stations and the electoral material must be designed in a way that everyone can take on board and that guarantees the integrity of the voters. Liberals have long specifically pushed the issue of visually impaired people and how they can vote while maintaining the secret of elections. It is not reasonable for the visually impaired voters to be unable to vote in person with a preserved full electoral secret because they have to ask an election worker for help in ticking the ballot. It is therefore gratifying that, as a result of the January Agreement and its negotiations, the Government has set up an investigation to review, among other things, these very issues. I hope that we will soon have solved this obstacle for people with visual impairment. It is high time for this. The parliamentary committee has the task of reviewing and considering changes in parts of the electoral system, including with a view to strengthening the electoral system, as Linda Modig, among others, so well explained. I personally believe that we have generally been somewhat naive about the question of the manipulation of elections in Sweden. We are happy to send out election observers far and wide across the world, and we will do so. But maybe we don't see the mote in our own eye. That is why I am pleased to see that the reform is now being evaluated with foreclosures of ballot stands and that voters are given reasonable conditions to keep order among ballot papers and also how voters behave. The Committee will also analyse the need for security-enhancing measures to further reduce the risk of manipulation of elections and review how to increase consistency in the handling of issues across the country – in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations on increased cooperation in the election administration and on the election authority's ability to issue regulations that are binding on the other election administration. I look forward to being able to debate the results of these investigations, because, as we all here, I am passionate about the issue of open and free democratic elections. Perhaps we will also have to debate the question of separate election days at that time. Madam President, I would like I wish a pleasant summer if we don't see more this strange parliamentary year, which will certainly go down in history.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-626	Madam President, I would like Society is something that we humans create together. We are united by the common task of shaping our society for a new age. The new time is not only here and now and tomorrow for us, but also for future generations. The tool is democracy, and the methods are democratic. Society is for all of us, and it is created by all of us together. As has already been explained, we are discussing issues relating to general elections: the National Audit Office's report, the committee's follow-up to the elections and the motion reports. I'll do some reflections on that. Elections are the obvious core of our democracy. It is in the form of government – one of our constitutions – where this manifests: All public power emanates from the people. Swedish popular government is based on free opinion formation and universal and equal voting rights. I think that this is something strong to lean against, and it certainly includes all of us. Among the motions which we have dealt with in committee and which are proposed to be rejected are important democratic thoughts which, despite rejection, I would like us to carry with us. In accordance with the Constitution, we have a duty always to strengthen and develop democracy and to enable people to feel that power is really based on them. It could be about including more people in the democratic craft. How do we encourage people to really seize power by using their right to vote? Another way to include more is to give more people the right to vote. We've been in some different ways to do this. In motions, as you have heard, it is proposed to vote from the year you turn 18. Others want you to vote in municipal elections from the age of 16. The ideas already exist in the Democracy Investigation, which proposes test municipalities with a 16-year age limit to vote. I look forward to when we can include more in the general elections by reducing the voting age to 16 years. We are not yet there, but we also know that the development of democracy takes time. We have heard about the important investigation on election issues that is beginning their work now, where one should investigate how visually impaired people should be able to vote and select their candidates with the same electoral secret as we who see the names clearly on the ballot. It is one way to include more and assure the visually impaired that the election secret also applies to them. Madam President, I would like I haven't been a politician my whole life. I am a teacher and bureaucrat who for a short time is a cog in the democratic machinery that is part of controlling Sweden. I like order and think that an expression that should be built by law is at least as beautiful an expression of democracy as it is demanded and should be implemented. We have a constitution that gives us clear rules. We shall work to ensure that the ideas of democracy are guiding all areas of society. In the Green Party we express this as that all Swedish politics should push for democracy, human rights and gender equality. A strong democracy with committed citizens is important for creating and nurturing a dynamic society. This democracy is challenged around the world and here in Sweden. Confidence in the democratic system needs to remain strong. I think it is about more people having to feel that they are included in the democratic work. That depends quite a lot on us in this House and our colleagues who may be following us digitally now. We need to get better and clearer by inviting more people to the democratic work. It is about more than the elections on election day; it is about everything that happens between the elections. That's where we are now. I would also like to make it clear that a democratic society needs its critics. We need strong journalism and an independent public service, and it needs to be available throughout the country. I would also like to make it clear that democracy is being defended by democratic means. In our party we stand up for an open Sweden – and Europe. We stand up for pressure, freedom of speech and religion. It is the foundation of democratic society. But it is through the commitment of many people that we can prevent anti-democratic forces from gaining a foothold in our country and in our democratic assemblies. It is by more people doing what we are now doing in this House – and above all, what thousands of leisure politicians are doing around municipalities and regions – and is part of democracy that we are building it strong. Everyone should be able to participate in building democratic society. Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party believe in a democracy with active and participatory citizens. For there to be faith in our democracy and our elections, respect for the secret of the elections and confidence in the results of the elections, many people need to have felt involved throughout. Perhaps my message today is addressed primarily to those outside the Chamber: anyone can be part of this. It is together that we build democratic society. Now we are between elections, and this is where you should call your political representative or the party you voted for and say: Hello, I want to do a little more. Invite me the next time you're going to do something! I believe that this will increase the involvement in the elections and the knowledge of democracy. Then our democracy will be stronger.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-642	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. We are now debating the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Terrorism is a real threat to Sweden. In its assessment of the terrorist threat to Sweden, the National Centre for Terrorist Threat Assessment states that there are both violent Islamists and right-wing extremists who believe that Sweden is a legitimate target for terrorist attacks and that a few individuals in or on the outskirts of these environments may develop both intent and ability to carry out terrorist attacks against targets in Sweden. Single-acting perpetrators with other motifs may also occur. In the case of an individual choosing to realize a terrorist intent, many times individual circumstances such as personal setbacks, mental ill-health or external events that cause frustration in the individual may be triggering factors. That is why, Madam President, it is vital that there is effective cooperation between police forces on the one hand and municipal authorities on the other, in order to prevent or prevent terrorism. The proposal discussed in the report originates from the terrorist agreement concluded between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats in 2017. The Government proposes, among other things, that municipal authorities within the social services be given increased opportunities to share information with the Police and Security Service in case of suspicion of terrorist crime or in order to prevent such crime. We Moderates support the basic aim of the bill to achieve effective cooperation in order to combat terrorism, but believe that more needs to be done. Madam President, I would like However, we Moderates believe that the proposal, as it is designed in the bill, places unreasonable workloads on municipal authorities in the field of social services. It is also not within the expertise of the disclosure authorities to make assessments of the kind proposed. For example, determining what tasks are likely to prevent terrorist offences from being committed is far beyond the core competence of the authorities. The relevance of such assessments is affected by the tasks of the Police Authority and the Security Service and the actions they can take in the individual case. All in all, the criteria put in place prevent important information from being passed on to law enforcement authorities. There is a clear risk that information that would have been valuable to the Police or the Security Service will not be passed on because of the design of the provision. In its referral, the Police Authority stresses that schools and health care should also be given the opportunity to provide information in order to prevent serious crime. The Moderates share that part of the assessment of the Political Authority, and we therefore believe that this issue should also be further investigated.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-649	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report A more effective exchange of information between police and social services in the context of counter-terrorism cooperation. Perhaps there is no reason to go into terrorism in a broader perspective. We have had these debates in this House very many times, and the attitude of the Swedish democrats to the work against terrorism is well known. However, the general debate on terrorism reflects the lines of conflict contained in the report. These are, on the one hand, the ability of society to prosecute, prevent and prevent terrorist attacks and, on the other hand, the individual's right to privacy. This report proposes to simplify the exchange of information between the police and social services. This is not something that the Swedish Democrats have anything against. On the other hand, we are making exactly the same assessment as other parties in this House, which is also included in the reservation to which I request my approval, reservation 3, that there should be increased opportunities for non-social services to also be included in the simplified secret-breaking work that allows the Police Authority to obtain information that is valuable for the law enforcement work. The police authority has issued an opinion during the consultation procedure, saying that this is very important and that healthcare should also be given the opportunity to provide information to the police in order to prevent serious crime. We do not see that there is a balanced interest that the Red-Green Government assesses, but we make the assessment that law enforcement authorities must have the right to obtain this kind of data. It is precisely data, evidence and intelligence that are important in combating terrorism. That will be my motion for this debate, and that is also the reason for that very request.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-655	Madam President, I would like A serious flaw in the debate on justice policy is that it often lacks system thinking. We analyse and debate each proposal individually, but it is rarely we take the time and energy to really understand how different measures work together– if there are things that are unnecessary and if there are things that are actually counterproductive and counterproductive and counterproductive. But society is a system. And if we are to succeed in building society more secure, we must also see the legal policy measures as part of a system. The report we are now debating is the result of the cross-block talks that we had during the last parliamentary term on how best to combat terrorism. Some may note that the delivery time of what we agreed then leaves some otherwise to be desired – rightly, can be said – but now another piece of the puzzle is in place. During the kind of talks where the parties are prepared to take responsibility for Sweden, put the short-term agenda aside to give and take, in a joint effort to make Sweden safer, we can allow ourselves to see the measures more as part of a larger system than as single shoots from the hip towards an increasingly coarser, more organized and threatening crime. We in the Center Party have been pushing for a long time to raise the debate from the morals of the bona fide headlines to identify the problems first with good knowledge and then to identify effective measures against them along the whole legal chain. That was also why the appointment of a security preparation was so important to us in the cross-block talks that took place last autumn about gang violence. It also became part of the 34-point program and is now a reality. In many other areas, the principle usually applies that the sooner and more accurate we can put in action, the easier and cheaper the problems to solve. That homework has to be done. Only then can we really and permanently strengthen law enforcement capabilities throughout the country. Madam President, I would like With regard to potential privacy-impairing measures, we need to proceed with caution, but not with so much caution that we are missing out on valuable instruments for preventing and resolving serious crime. It is increasingly felt that this debate rests partly on outdated premises. Digitalisation, camera technology, DNA technology and other developments create enormous opportunities to fight crime. At the same time, however, they offer enormous opportunities to abuse a massive power from the state against an individual. In the wrong hands and with dark purposes, the same means that can provide security and clear up crimes can be used to oppress, persecute, override democracy and act in violation of human rights. A challenge with potentially privacy-impairing measures is that each of them can usually be justified, but that when they are put together they can upset the balance between the state and the citizen. Hence the need for system thinking. Madam President, I would like This feeling that we are in some way pushing this debate on outdated premises is also reflected in the fact that we may sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. We need to make a major review of how we view privacy and privacy barriers so that we can decide what is important and start from that when we build the legal system of the future. This can be done in the framework of the Safety Preparation or in a different way, but I believe that this must be done in order for us to have a proportionate, effective and legally secure regulatory framework for these kinds of issues. I would therefore like to support my reservation, No 4, on the revision of the regulatory framework.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-664	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to prosecute crime and to do what can be done to reduce crime. However, it has to be done within certain regulations so that individuals do not get caught up and so that those who are entitled to help also get it. There's a balance between police and social services working together. Let me go in a little more depth. The principle of public access is a special legislation in Sweden. It enables the public to take part in and gain insight into Swedish administration and to be able to control public power. Just as important as the transparency of laws and decisions, it is equally important to protect personal privacy. Therefore, there are also a variety of confidentiality laws. As individuals, we should be protected when, for example, we have contact with authorities. In social services, the rules are that the confidentiality of personal data applies. However, in some cases confidentiality needs to be disclosed, for example when it comes to preventing or investigating crime. However, there are also rules for authorities to be able to exchange data between each other in order to simplify law enforcement. The politician who claims that society should use all the means available to combat crime is a politician who does not understand how the state can be used to counter liberal and free democracy where every individual has rights and obligations. It is therefore important that there is a strong confidentiality of personal data, but at the same time some confidentiality must be broken in order to protect people from being exposed to serious crimes. It is therefore very important to have a holistic approach to crime prevention. The Left Party is therefore doubtful as to why the government in this bill has focused solely on terrorist crimes when at the same time there are so many other crimes that also need priority. It is important that authorities also have good opportunities to combat organised crime, violent extremism and crimes against welfare. Social services are an important part of preventing crime. Madam President, I would like What the government proposes, that information covered by confidentiality be disclosed to a municipal authority within the social services in order to prevent terrorist offences, may sound like a good proposal. But it will not be possible to implement it in a good way. It should be borne in mind that it is not part of the task or competence of the social services to assess whether an individual has committed or will commit a crime. Social services are unable to intervene with concrete action if, for example, someone expresses undemocratic and violent views. After all, it would be extremely inappropriate for municipalities to start keeping records of individual opinion. It is, among other things, contrary to the form of government. If social services are to contact people because the police have provided information to social services, confidence in social services would be disrupted, by the individual but also by the general public. It is too unclear what this bill is really aimed at. There are currently provisions for when social services can break the confidentiality and provide the police with information in case of suspicion of a crime. That's good. That's how it has to work. However, we in the Left Party are very hesitant about extending these provisions. It will be legally insecure if individual social security secretaries are to start acting in qualified criminal justice assessments. Social services shall not act as an information centre for the activities of other authorities. I don't want social services to be the police's extended arm. Then people will not turn to the social services for support and help. It is not about protecting criminals or sweeping problems under the carpet, but about seeing what social services are actually working on. Therefore, the bill should be rejected. Instead, the government will come back with a proposal that takes a holistic approach to crime prevention between social services and the police. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-675	Madam President, I would like Terrorism is a constant threat. It is a threat to the democracy we have, to the free exercise of human rights and to economic and social development. Swedish jihadists have played an active role in Islamic State terror activities and in acts of terror that have been committed elsewhere in Europe. We have also seen acts of terror in our own country. In parallel with the emergence of jihadism in Sweden, the terror cells of Nazism have also begun to appear again. People should be able to feel confident that openness and human rights as well as the fundamental values of democracy are respected. No one should have to feel the fear of expressing their opinion or of participating in political or religious meetings. Terrorism threatens international peace and security, national security and our fundamental rights and freedoms. A broad consensus on issues such as these is important. It was important and good that a broad agreement was reached in 2017 between the former left-wing government and the alliance parties in broad agreement on measures to combat terror and its roots. The proposal we are discussing today is one of the results of this agreement. Combating terrorism is an extremely important public interest. The success of counter-terrorism depends on the interaction and exchange of information between the relevant authorities. Madam President, I would like The government proposal, which we are dealing with today, is a step on the road to continuing to counter terrorism in our society. The proposal provides for the Police Authority to have simplified and extended possibilities to provide data to the municipal social services in order to prevent terrorist crime. The bill also proposes that social services authorities be given increased opportunities to share information with the Police and the Security Service. Disclosure should be possible to a greater extent in the event of suspicion that terrorist crime has been committed, but also when it is necessary to prevent such crime. The basis of the bill is our support, but as the proposal is designed, we see that there are conditions that are defined for data to be passed on from the municipal social services to the Police Authority or the Swedish Security Service. In our view, these conditions are in danger of preventing data from being passed on. It also places further severe workloads on municipal social services. These are tasks that are outside its normal area of work. A more reasonable system would be for data to be provided and for the assessment of law enforcement expertise. We therefore support the reservation that mentions the removal of the condition requirement, reservation 2. Madam President, I would like We also believe, in accordance with what the Police Authority has said in its referral, that schools and health care should be given the opportunity to provide information to the Police Authority in order to prevent serious crime. We believe that there is a social interest in enabling more authorities and actors than social services to disclose data. We therefore support the reasoning in reservation 3 which recommends that the Government set up an investigation with the task of proposing a regime in which schools and health care and possibly other actors are given improved opportunities to provide and exchange information with the Police Authority and the Security Service in order to prevent serious crime. Madam President, I would like We support the essential elements of the bill and the reservations made by the Christian Democrats in this report. However, I choose to support only reservation 2 in the report.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-684	Madam President, I would like We are debating today and will decide later on the Government proposal A more effective exchange of information between police and social services in the event of a counter-terrorism incident. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like Preventing, preventing and making things more difficult is the basis for Sweden's anti-terrorism strategy. We will equip society to respond to propaganda and anti-democratic messages. We're going to give Säpo and the police better tools for information retrieval. And we're going to give the police a better chance of interrupting ongoing terrorist acts. The fight against terrorism is the responsibility of all of us. Therefore, it was gratifying that during the last parliamentary term we were able to conclude two cross-block agreements, one in 2015 and one in 2017, which strengthen Sweden's ability to combat terrorism. Examples of things that we have agreed on are: supplementing the resources of Säpo and the police in order to increase impact ensuring police response capacity with a capacity for shorter response times and a capacity to operate in more than one location at the same time and for longer periods of time
i-2d61f04e66348f69-691	We also agree on increased international cooperation with new legislation allowing for operational cooperation between EU intervention teams. Sweden has also concluded a similar agreement with Norway. We have strengthened the cooperation between Säpo and the Finnish Immigration Service. There is collaboration to increase the ability to detect potential threats. For efficient management, Säpo also has direct access to an important database. We have criminalised the travel of terrorism and the reception of terrorist training. We have made it difficult for Swedish passports to be misused. And dealings with terrorist organisations have been criminalized. In addition, we have tightened the penalties for both serious weapons offences and serious violations of the authorisation requirement for explosives. There has been a national resolution against violent extremism at Brå. That's great. It is a centre that has the task of being an intervention team to provide robust support to municipalities, to provide increased knowledge of the driving forces and expressions of extremism and to coordinate national efforts. Measures against terrorist financing have been improved. It is also important, however, that the legislation should keep on following and that we review it and what more we can do in this area. Madam President, I would like Although a whole series of measures have been put in place on the basis of those agreements, we see that additional measures are also needed precisely to prevent, prevent and make it more difficult for terrorists. Combating terrorism is an extremely important public interest. A prerequisite for successful anti-terrorism work is that relevant authorities can interact and exchange information with each other. Current confidentiality regulations in these areas do not allow the Police Authority, the Security Service and the Social Services to exchange information with each other effectively. This is an obstacle to effective cooperation against terrorism. For this reason, this bill is on Parliament's table, and that is why this afternoon we will be making a decision to amend the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. We want to provide the opportunity for a more effective exchange of information between the police and social services in order to prevent terrorist crime. Cooperation is an important part of our resistance to terrorism, which is a serious threat to our open society and which must be vigorously combated. We also suggest that the social services should have increased opportunities to share information with the police and the Swedish Security Service. The provision of social services should be possible to a greater extent in case of suspicion that terrorist crime has been committed but also when it is necessary to prevent such crime. Current legislation in this area is too rigid and restricts the exchange of information that could be relevant. This can be about knowledge and information in social services about, for example, financing or travel for terrorism purposes. This is not acceptable. I am pleased that there is, in essence, great and broad support for the changes that we are now making and making decisions on. Madam President, I would like It is important to counter the radicalisation and recruitment of extremist and terrorist groups and to influence individuals' intention to commit or support terrorist crime. The aim must be to identify radicalisation processes as early as possible in order to prevent further radicalisation of groups or individuals and ultimately terrorist acts.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-702	Madam President, I would like This is a matter of great urgency and importance. How do we reduce crime? And how do we reduce the serious crime we call terrorism? The Liberals support the proposal and the report. We feel that this is well worth trying. We have looked with great interest at the reservations. There are some general things about us evaluating all sorts of things. We think that is a good thing, too. You should constantly look at all the legislation. Some want to go a little further and a little faster. Others feel that the school should report things like this directly. The whole issue of school crime, whether you are worried about crime such as terrorism or anything else, and the role of the school is a matter for a specific debate. Today, Madam President, if you are worried that young people are getting hurt, the school will report to social services. Whether they're smuggling guns, selling drugs or thinking about cutting people's heads off and putting it up on a stake. All this is bad for the young man's upbringing. Then it is important that the social services receive this information. In our view, that is why social services, rather than schools, should play the decisive role and be able to make the best judgement. We are, of course, prepared to look at this from a broader perspective. This is also about free schools and the obligations and opportunities they have to control people who may be employed in these schools and see whether they are inappropriate from this point of view. Finally, we must keep up the pressure and add more police and other legislation. As always, I would also like to raise the issue of recruitment and support for all strange organisations. Young people, both in social services and in school, get inspiration from somewhere. You don't start by watching sick radicalisation movies online, but it starts somewhere else. These are organisations that receive public funding from the General Heritage Fund, municipalities, regions and various authorities that allocate support to peoples' education. We have to make completely new demands. Not a single crown should go to extremists. They have freedom of expression and thought and can do whatever they want, but there is no right to our tax money to fund activities that are, in practice, to celebrate mass murder and overthrow democracy. I support the proposal in the report, Madam President.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-707	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Justice's report Camera monitoring in public transport and pharmacies – a simpler procedure. Allow me to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. The current Camera Protection Act entered into force as late as 2018 and in several respects improved the possibility of camera surveillance, for example in store premises. At the same time, it is clear how the government in terms of camera surveillance over time has weighed the interest in preventing, investigating and prosecuting crimes too low. According to the Camera Protection Act, authorisation is required when camera surveillance is to be carried out by an authority or by someone else who carries out activities of general interest. From the permit requirement there are a number of designated exceptions for, among other things, the Police Authority, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Transport Administration. Camera surveillance in the subway is also exempted from the requirement for permission. However, the exemption from the permit requirement for law enforcement authorities came into place only at this year's change of year after the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government in connection with the adoption of the new Camera Protection Act. We Moderates already pointed out when the Swedish Parliament decided on the 2018 Camera Protection Act that all public transport, not just the subway, should be exempted from the permit requirement. Now the government has presented a new bill to the Riksdag proposing exactly what we proposed back in 2018, that is to say that the licence requirement for camera surveillance in and in connection with public transport will be abolished. It is a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done. Madam President, I would like In order to increase security and ensure that more crimes are cleared up, the possibilities for camera surveillance need to be further strengthened. Today's possibility of camera surveillance in places where the public has access should be reinforced. Being a victim of crime is a gross violation of personal integrity. The fact that the crime is cleared up and the perpetrator is held to account is important in order to give the victim redress. We therefore believe that the interest in security and the ability to investigate and clear up crimes should outweigh what it does today when the interest in camera surveillance is weighed against the privacy breach that camera surveillance inevitably entails. The government, Madam President, should also set up an investigation to investigate whether the authorisation requirement for camera surveillance should be abolished for municipalities and regions as well. There are regular reports of situations where health professionals, for example, are exposed to threats and violence. It is not uncommon for threatening situations to arise when people gather in the hospital emergency wards after, for example, shootings or other gang conflicts. Hospitals and other health institutions must never be a free zone for gang violence and insecurity. It is also not uncommon for threatening situations to arise at health centres or in connection with social services premises. There are also problems of order and crime in and in connection with libraries and other municipal activities. In their basic task, municipalities play an important role in preventing crime. However, there is a need to further strengthen municipalities' crime prevention responsibilities. In addition to the basic assignments of municipalities within, for example, school and social services, municipal security officers and camera surveillance in places exposed to crime also play an important role in creating security. Municipalities and regions that want to set up surveillance cameras need to apply for a permit from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The processing time of the Swedish Data Protection Authority often exceeds one year, which can seriously delay important crime prevention and security-building measures. At the same time, it is questionable to what extent the authorisation procedure actually strengthens the privacy of the individual. The general rules on the processing of personal data mean that municipalities and regions would have to carry out the same thorough analysis before camera surveillance is initiated as law enforcement authorities do and make a balance of interests between privacy interests and security interests.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-719	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report on Camera surveillance in public transport and pharmacies – a simpler procedure, which means that it will be easier to monitor cameras in connection with pharmacies and public transport. With regard to the government's efforts on a simplified procedure for law enforcement authorities, the Swedish Democrats were out early and anticipated the problems highlighted by the government in the balance between law enforcement effectiveness and public integrity. We were out early predicting precisely that we needed more camera surveillance to ensure the security of citizens and to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to investigate crimes and collect evidence regarding the crimes committed. This is a work that I think will gain even more weight in the future. You can only take the demonstrations of the last few weeks, which have taken place in our major cities. They have escalated in violent riots. Shops have been destroyed, public assets have been vandalised and abuse has taken place to a large extent. But you have very limited conditions to be able to bind the different individuals to the different crimes. There, camera surveillance has been a good tool for the police and law enforcement authorities in general to identify these individuals and tie them to individual events. The Swedish Democrats are behind reservations about increased possibilities for camera surveillance and licensing requirements for municipalities and regions. The reservations aim to make it easier for more actors to get camera surveillance in situations where they fear that there may be a criminal development or where they want to carry out general crime prevention work. We do not believe that these are particularly far-reaching proposals that seriously interfere with personal integrity. Rather, those who, in connection with, for example, riot moods, are subjected to crime are extremely offended by the fact that the crimes to which they are subjected cannot be investigated. There society needs to strengthen its ability to bind these individuals to the crimes committed. But we also know that camera surveillance has great popular support. In the studies that have been carried out, an overwhelming majority have sympathy for camera surveillance and do not feel that their integrity is in any way hampered by the expansion of camera surveillance. There is even a huge acceptance of camera surveillance in residential areas in the population. Those who do not think that camera surveillance is well balanced usually, for obvious reasons, are usually criminal elements. On that side we have had left-wing parties and government parties, which have represented that line in this House historically. Every time the Swedish Democrats have wanted to advance on camera surveillance issues, left-wing government parties have said no for reasons of integrity. Privacy has been safeguarded. However, according to the studies that have been carried out, an overwhelming majority of the normal population in our country has no problem with this. It is precisely the criminal environment that feels it is problematic that law enforcement authorities are given increased resources to bind individuals to crime. Their integrity in this congregation has been represented by the governing parties historically. Steps are being taken forward. Perhaps you should not give the government too much credit for the removal of the permit requirement and for the legislation that the Police Authority is now working on. As previous speakers described, there were repeated announcements in the Committee of Justice – where the Swedish Democrats were the driving force – about removing the permit requirement that led the government late in the course of coming up with the proposal to the Riksdag to remove it. We will be involved in every step of this journey forward, making it easier for different actors to use camera surveillance to fight crime. In this debate, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5 on the obligation to permit municipalities and regions.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-727	Madam President, I would like There are now great opportunities for police, public authorities and private actors to use camera surveillance of places to which the public has access. It takes permission today to set up a camera, and that's good. It shall be control, consideration and integrity that prevail when society is to be monitored. We do not want it as in dictatorships such as China, which constantly monitors its population, both through cameras and in other ways. If you have nothing to hide, you don't have to worry – there's bad in the mouth of the liberal democrat who advocates more surveillance but doesn't look out into the world and see what happens to people's freedom when the state goes in and monitors every step you take. In Sweden we are not there – yet. But more cameras are being set up. More forms of monitoring of individuals are being legislated. Too few people wonder what society this will lead to. Politicians want to curb crime and prove themselves capable of action. It's kind of naive. Politics, too, must stop, broaden our eyes and ask what society we want. Of course, more cameras in the streets and squares can feel good. Sometimes pictures may even be involved in solving crimes, and that is of course a good thing. But when cameras are set up, what other measures are not being put in place because cameras are considered to be good enough? The government proposes to remove the requirement for permits for public transport cameras. Several consultation bodies warn against the proposal. The Bar Association believes that the proposal to set up cameras risks being decided too lightly. The Swedish Data Protection Authority, LO and Seko are critical. We should also remember that camera surveillance leads to a small reduction in crime and works best against property and drug crime. Against violence under the influence of alcohol, cameras are not a deterrent. Passive cameras have no effect, while real-time surveillance results in a 15 percent reduction in crime. But it also draws huge resources to monitor real-time, which means that this form of camera surveillance is not as common. On the other hand, it is a way of lulling people into false security. There are many reasons to be critical of the effects of camera surveillance and to constantly question and think about when it comes to various forms of state surveillance of the population. The Left Party does. That is why I propose that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved. Madam President, I would like If we really want to reduce crime, it is not camera surveillance in every corner and police behind every bush that is the real solution, although that is precisely the scenario of the wet dream of the right parties. Then it is much simpler solutions that are needed, such as reducing the economic gaps between peoples, because poverty also breeds crime. We need to ensure that we have a school that can train every single child and that there is a job security labour market instead of a government that wants to destroy employment security by all means. It takes courageous politicians who dare to invest long-term in welfare and the people and stop pumping in support to large companies that do not even pay taxes in Sweden. We need a redistribution from the elite to the people. It's crime prevention. That's strengthening equality. That's crushing the crime.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-735	Madam President, I would like Today's debate concerns camera surveillance and the law governing this type of surveillance. In today's society, we see how many people feel insecure in public places because they are at risk of being subjected to crime. But we also see how vandalism and theft are carried out against both private and municipal property. The basic purpose of a camera surveillance law is to meet the need for security-building surveillance, but at the same time, of course, the law must protect people's personal integrity. There has long been a requirement for permission for certain types of camera surveillance. This authorisation requirement applies if the camera surveillance relates to a place where the public has access. However, the Camera Protection Act already contains several exceptions to the permit requirement. For example, a law enforcement permit is not required in a subway car, a metro station or a parking garage. And there is a general exception for camera surveillance carried out by the Coast Guard, the Police Authority, the Security Service and the Customs Administration. An application for authorisation must be made to the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which is the supervisory authority, if the monitoring does not concern areas or spaces where only staff or other authorised persons may be present. Madam President, I would like In the bill we are now debating, the government proposes a simpler procedure in the sense that the permission for camera surveillance should no longer be required when guarding in a public transport mode or in the station, terminal or stop area. The requirement for permission for camera surveillance is also removed in store premises where pharmacy activities are carried out. Madam President, I would like The Government's legislative proposal aims to simplify the use of camera surveillance as a law enforcement tool. We share the view that there is a need to simplify the use of camera surveillance in public transport, airports and retail outlets where pharmacy activities are carried out. Of course, a camera surveillance permit, which the bill touches upon, can be highlighted from a privacy perspective – it is about the protection of the individual's personal integrity still being maintained. But we see that this is being monitored in the bill. That is also what the Constitutional Committee has found in its assessment. Madam President, I would like In order to increase the security of our society and to ensure that more crimes are cleared up, the possibilities for camera surveillance should be further strengthened. The proposals in the bill to abolish the licensing obligation are a step in the right direction but not enough. Today's possibility of camera surveillance also in other places where the public is moving should be reinforced. The law should be adapted to a new reality where the balance between security and crime resolution on the one hand and integrity on the other is changing. Consideration should be given to the fact that the victim of a crime is a major breach of privacy. The interest in security and the resolution of crime must therefore outweigh what it does today. We therefore see a need for a change according to what is described in reservation 4, which allows for further camera surveillance. Madam President, I would like We believe that the government should also consider strengthening the possibilities for municipalities and regions to introduce camera surveillance in public places and other places where it is justified on the basis of a crime prevention or security-building objective. The municipalities play an important role in the prevention of crime, and there is reason to both assign and provide additional opportunities for municipalities to carry out crime prevention work. I would like to conclude by saying that we Christian Democrats support the reservations we have in this report. However, I choose to apply only for reservation 4.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-748	Madam President, I would like For security to increase, society must fight crime but also the cause of crime. Crime prevention is crucial. The local presence of the police is also incredibly important. Therefore, the historic investment in the Police Authority that we are in the middle of, with the goal of 10,000 more police employees by 2024, is incredibly important. But effective crime prevention requires the efforts of society as a whole. Therefore, the government has developed a new crime prevention programme, Together against crime, established crime prevention services on all county boards of the country and added more money to the municipalities to support them in the crime prevention work. We are also looking at the issue of making it statutory for municipalities to work crime prevention. We are reviewing the regulations and training for security officers to make it possible to use them as a security-building resource to a greater extent – to name a few. To this we have increased the possibility of having camera surveillance and removed the licensing obligation for police, coastguard, security police and customs services. On the table today is another building block in stronger prevention work: a simpler procedure for camera surveillance in public transport and in pharmacies. I call for the motion to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want municipalities to increase their crime prevention efforts and to involve more actors in the joint work we need to do. There must be a common understanding of the problems that need to be addressed locally, and the actions decided must be based on knowledge of the crime prevention methods that work. We need more efforts for those people who end up in crime and for those young people who are at risk of getting involved in crime and to create safe places where crime is difficult to commit. With this afternoon's decision, we are creating more tools for security and law enforcement throughout the country. Cameras should be able to be set up quickly and easily on buses, trains, stops, stations and airports. This is a crime prevention work. It is about facilitating investigative work once crimes have been committed. But camera surveillance can also lead to increased security and make more people travel by public transport. The legislative changes improve the possibilities of using camera surveillance in public transport and airports for, among other things, law enforcement and order enforcement purposes. The changes also give pharmacies the same conditions as other stores to set up cameras. General data protection regulation will continue to provide strong protection for privacy. The proposal is that this should enter into force as early as 1 August.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-758	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Camera surveillance and camera surveillance make me and certainly many others feel a little chills. Where are the cameras in our community? Where can I get caught in a picture? And what happens to that material? I guess many people ask those questions, perhaps often women who live in precarious or controlling conditions. But, Madam President, I also think that people are thinking: camera surveillance might be useful if it helps to prevent crime or to clear up crimes that have already been committed. In order to prevent materials that get stuck in a camera from being mistreated or falling into the wrong hands, there is comprehensive legislation for the privacy of the individual. This applies to both the camera surveillance itself and the subsequent handling of the material. This is found, for example, in the Data Protection Act, the Criminal Data Act and the said Camera Protection Act. It is regulated that the information requirements concerning the location of the surveillance and the confidentiality of the person handling the information obtained through the camera surveillance shall apply. This is also covered by the confidentiality of the legislation on disclosure and confidentiality. Madam President, I would like The purpose of this legislative proposal is to combat crime, prevent accidents and maintain order and order. The last is actually a new purpose, which I think is good. No, this may not lead to fewer crimes. However, I am quite convinced that this will lead to more crimes being cleared up, and that is good enough for me. Camera surveillance, as we have heard several people say here, if it brings greater security and reduced crime, can also be considered to be an enhanced protection of the privacy of those who actually do not have to be subjected to a criminal attack. Not least, this leads to less hassle for those who want camera surveillance, and it is important for crime prevention purposes. As camera surveillance in the subway is now legal, it would be quite logical for people that the same rules apply to all modes of transport with the same basic and privacy protection requirements for camera surveillance to be carried out. In this context, I would also like to point out that the Center Party feels it is a pity that health facilities and hospitals are not part of this. We look forward to working it into future work and future proposals. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-768	Madam President, I would like The subject of debate is therefore Camera surveillance in public transport and pharmacies – a simpler procedure. So we are not introducing a lawless area here, but the regulatory framework remains. It's just that you don't have to ask for a special permit. The simplified procedure also means that red tape and workload are reduced for those who currently authorise the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Often you get permission. There are a lot of camera surveillance today, for example at our airports. Now you skip one step. Safeguard mechanisms on GDPR and other regulatory frameworks remain in place. It is very important, because if you get the right to set up a camera, it is clear that it is a great responsibility from a privacy point of view that this data is processed correctly, that it is culled and destroyed and that there is no leakage. There should be severe punishment for those who set up the camera and abuse this. This is a journey that we have made, and the subject will come back to. I remember that many years ago in this House we talked about whether it was right to have cameras in taxis. Oh, my God, what it would be exposed! There was so much privacy that would be violated. But it was about protecting those who drive against abuse. In the same way, this is a way of protecting the people who work in public transport against harassment and violence. The same applies to our pharmacies, which of course are companies where there are certain risks, such as people with substance abuse problems who might want to get over medicines and other things in a criminal way. These are areas where we now say that we have to give permission here. The regulatory framework must be complied with, and control will take place. But you skip the condition. Looking ahead, efficiency, legal certainty and personal integrity will, as has been said, meet in many areas. We have the entire AI complex. How do you get to use smart computers that calculate facial recognition? This will only escalate. We have a case that seems to have been cleared up. I am not talking about what there was a press conference about this morning, but about what there should be a press conference from Linköping about a little later. In doing so, the question is whether only by using genealogical databases can you map every human being who has left DNA at a crime scene. Today, it's allowed. I think we need to look at these issues even further. Technology runs politics, and we run after it. In this case, however, it is very easy for the Liberals to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-777	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate report 2019/ 20:TU14, which deals with road safety. The Swedish Democrats support all of our reservations in the report, but in order to save time when voting, I only ask for reservation 28. What is road safety? Is it to mount automatic speed cameras along our roads, or is it much more complicated than that? For me, who has devoted almost all my adult life to road safety, this issue is important. I have done about 300 technical examinations on vehicles involved in serious accidents. In this work we have tried to analyse why the accident occurred. Was it the road that caused it? Was that the vehicle that caused the accident? Or was it the driver? In the extreme, it was the driver who caused the accident. Last year, 2019, 223 people did not come home to their loved ones. Each of these victims has a large circle of people around them: parents, children, siblings, relatives, and friends. Every death in traffic affects a large number of people. 223 people — think about that number for a moment! In this House there are 349 Members. Thus, the number of road deaths in 2019 corresponds to 64 per cent of the members of the Riksdag. Road safety is something that concerns all of us. It is important for each of us in this House to act to increase safety on our roads. Madam President, I would like Behind each death are affected parents, children, siblings, friends, colleagues and schoolmates. The night of Sunday 31 May this year there was a serious accident outside Sundsvall. Four young boys died in an accident, and two more young people were severely injured. Try to put yourself in the horrendous situation that relatives and friends of the affected families are going through. Imagine yourself opening the door and being met by police officers and a priest. Imagine the icy, paralyzing realization that their visit is the worst possible. I know. I have experienced the horror and death anxiety of an accident scene. I have also experienced the paralyzing silence in an accident scene when life has fled. I have met parents who have just lost the dearest thing they have — a child. I've been sitting on the side of the road trying to comfort people who have just experienced the most terrible moment of their lives. I have served as an expert witness in trials with the judicial aftermath of serious accidents. My former colleagues in the police, ambulance personnel, rescue services and towers can all testify to the same thing. For many, the accidents are just a note in the paper... until the day the police and priests stand outside the door. For the people affected, it means dramatic experiences, and that is why we must do everything in our power to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. Madam President, I would like Road safety must start at primary school. Getting knowledge of how to behave, walk and ride in traffic at an early age is a good basis for developing into a safe user. We Swedish democrats believe that children benefit from this knowledge later in life when it is time to drive a moped, motorcycle and car. In addition, some of the children will become professional drivers and have the road as their place of work. It is therefore important that the training of a good user starts early. Madam President, I would like In 2019, 38 people were killed in alcohol or drug-related traffic accidents. That's 17% of all traffic fatalities. According to the research, every 500th car has an impacted driver behind the wheel. It is a frightening figure that should be considered. We know that the risks increase significantly with affected drivers, and unfortunately the statistics also show that alcohol and drugs are a significant risk factor. The Swedish Democrats believe that drug and alcohol-related controls need to be increased significantly. In 2009, the police conducted 2.7 million exhalation tests, and in 2018 the figure was down in 957 700 tests. It's a dramatic decrease. From the point of view of road safety, this development is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like Work carried out on the road or near the road is fraught with great risks as many motorists do not respect signs and warning lights to the extent that would be desirable. Every year, several people are killed and injured when they do a job on or near the road. Road workers, towers, rescue services and police are particularly vulnerable. I managed my own life with a hair on an accident site in the winter of 1997. Two years later, a colleague was being hit by a car at an accident site. For some reason motorists do not respect the warning lights on both vehicles and signs. So-called TMA vehicles are used as protection for various work on the road. I'm sure you've seen these vehicles with large airbags. These vehicles have the task of drawing the attention of other road users to an ongoing work with their presence and equipment. Despite both signs and warning lights, these TMA vehicles are hit by a car, and these collisions are increasing in frequency. Just before I went to this House, I noticed that another vehicle has been driven on the road – a tragic development. Although TMA vehicles are designed in such a way that a driver in an approaching vehicle is aware of an obstacle in front of the vehicle, driving is carried out. The situation is not acceptable, and I often talk to people who experience insecurity while working on the road. Developments must be reversed, and for us Swedish democrats it is a priority. Those who work on the roads do so in order for the rest of us to arrive safely. Then we must show these people respect. They're doing a job to make it accessible to the rest of us. The best way to show respect is to slow down past a workplace. Madam President, I would like Road safety concerns us all, and we in the Swedish Parliament have the tools to increase safety on our roads. Let us jointly increase the security of the country's motorists.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-798	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start by thanking you for allowing me to conduct one of my last debates on this strange parliamentary year in the traffic committee's affairs, which I do instead of my colleague Mikael Larsson. Madam President, I would like The Center Party supports all its reservations, but I choose to accept only reservation 5. The number of wildlife accidents has increased each year over the last ten to fifteen years. 2019 became a new record year in Sweden with nearly 65 000 police reported wildlife accidents. Incidents of cloven-hoofed game, not least deer and wild boar, have increased dramatically. The result of a collision with, for example, a wild boar or a deer, in addition to major material damage, also causes suffering to the animals. However, wildlife accidents rarely lead to fatal accidents. The zero vision, i.e. the long-term goal of no one being killed or seriously injured as a result of traffic accidents in Sweden, is indicative of the Finnish Transport Administration's safety work. Of course, this is a good thing, but the agency's focus on reducing the risk of fatal accidents risks leading to less serious wildlife accidents going under radar in road safety work, despite the fact that the number of wildlife accidents with, for example, wild boars is increasing year after year. The increase in wildlife accidents places greater demands on road safety planning of road networks and other infrastructure so that the game is kept off the roads. The problem should ultimately be addressed in the context of the review of game management. We need to hunt more boars. In the short term, however, the Finnish Transport Administration's infrastructure planning must take greater account of the general danger posed by wildlife on roads and railways. Madam President, I would like Regardless of technological progress, the driver's perception through his own attention must be reliable. Today, no visual examinations are required for private individuals to drive a car, apart from the test for obtaining a driving licence. The Center Party believes that consideration should be given to introducing mandatory visual tests for individuals in connection with the renewal of driving licences when the driver has reached an age when it is scientifically proven that his vision is gradually deteriorating. The Center Party believes that the government should set up an investigation to see if this is possible. Madam President, I would like For many, risking getting rid of your driving licence can change your life drastically. Some of us have probably experienced it. Until April this year, people with visual field loss were able to perform a test at VTI where the driving ability could be tested via a simulator, and the driving licence could be retained by way of exemption. Representatives of the research project Chances to Dispens have courted the committee and given their views on the testing at VTI and how important it is to conduct tests based on people's ability. We can also note that in Sweden it is not possible to carry out a driving test on the road when the medical requirements are not met. This is because the driving licence law regulates that a driving licence is required to carry out driving tests on the road. A licence may not be granted to a person who does not meet the medical requirements. It'll be a bit of a moment 22. However, we can note that the driving licence law does not impose any specific requirements for the vision to be considered approved. The Swedish Transport Agency's regulation today allows tests of driving ability for individuals with cognitive impairment, such as stroke or dementia, before a driving licence may be withdrawn – but not for loss of visual field. For this reason, an approved driving in a special simulator at VTI has previously weighed heavily in the Swedish Transport Agency's assessment whether exemptions from the requirements regarding visual field defects can be granted for driving licences with a licence B or not. In June 2018, the Swedish Transport Agency recommended that simulator use be paused to allow for an evaluation in 2018. The recommendation was based, among other things, on the fact that several people with very large visual field defects passed the driving. The question raised was whether the simulator fulfilled the intended function. The Swedish Transport Agency then began an evaluation to investigate whether there is evidence that a simulator driving can show with certainty who can compensate for their field of vision defects and who cannot compensate. In April 2020, the Swedish Transport Agency decided to no longer consider approved driving in VTI's simulator when the Authority assesses the driving licence ability of persons who have received their driving licence withdrawn due to loss of visual field. The Agency bases its decision on, among other things, a review of scientific literature. It shows that in order to draw conclusions about driving ability on the road based on the outcome of driving in a simulator, comprehensive validations – including road studies – are required. Such validation has not been carried out on the simulator at VTI. However, a follow-up of the persons authorised for exemption by the VTI simulant test over two years afterwards shows that they are statistically less likely to end up in an accident. Other elements that have affected the Swedish Transport Agency's position are that the test scenario in the simulator is limited. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party welcomes the fact that today there is a majority in this House in favour of resuming the testing of the VTI and that a further investigation of this should be carried out.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-813	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 6. Today we're going to talk about road safety. There are three factors that need to be handled wisely if we are to succeed with zero vision: traffic culture, technology and laws. Regardless of the type of traffic, we know that the behaviour of individual road users is crucial to the number of accidents that occur in traffic and the traffic culture that develops in traffic. It is well documented that young men take greater risks, as can be seen in accident statistics. We know that some cyclists perceive it as having the right to priority at crossing points, which creates the risk of accidents. It is also well known that some who enjoy summer on a motorcycle have a somewhat flexible approach to speed limits. All these are examples of culture that increases the risk of accidents. We must therefore talk about traffic culture when we are working to reduce traffic accidents. Modern vehicles, digitalized traffic monitoring, flexible signs and better roads mean that more and more people are in traffic while the number of accidents has decreased over time. However, there are technologies that help individual modes of transport but are dangerous to others. One example is cable racks, which protect cars but are lethal to motorcycle drivers. But technological developments are positive, and we will see how new technologies will continue to allow us to enjoy high flexibility while accident rates continue to decline. While we are working on traffic culture and the development of new technologies, we, as legislators, must follow this up with legislation that reinforces road safety work. The combination of traffic culture, technology and laws is what in the long run creates a robust and flexible traffic system with as few accidents as possible. Madam President, I would like In addition to these three principles, we have highlighted the following points in our reservations: Accidents leading to injuries and deaths more often affect our motorcyclists. One of the reasons is the cable racks, as I mentioned earlier. Motorcyclists get stuck in such railings, leading to greater and more serious personal injuries. Between 2005 and 2017, an average of 40 motorcyclists died each year, and about one in ten motorcyclists killed in traffic were killed as a result of a collision with cable racks. The Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, the Swedish Road and Broräckes Association and the Swedish Motorcyclists have criticised these railings for the safety of motorcyclists. Instead, it recommends smooth railings with underslip protection. If we are to achieve zero vision, we need a review of railings on Swedish roads. We therefore propose that the Swedish Transport Administration should develop an action plan to replace the cable railings with modernized traditional road railings to reduce the number of killed and severely injured motorcyclists. Madam President, I would like Holding a B licence is often a basic requirement for a person to get a job. For many it takes time to take a driving licence, and the current regulations make it difficult for those who try. An approved proficiency test or a driving test is valid for two months. We have noted that in February 2020 the Swedish Transport Agency decided on new rules on driving tests in order to improve driver training for qualification B. Among other things, the new rules extend the validity of an approved competence B theoretical examination from two to four months. However, the system should be even more flexible. The government should work towards extending the validity of an approved proficiency test and driving test for driving licence B to six months. Madam President, I would like We also note problems with illegal driving schools. I don't really like that concept, because it's not choir schools, but it's the concept that's used. These illegal driving schools distort the market and, in many cases, behave in such a way that individual driving school students believe they are going to a legal driving school, with negative consequences for pupils in the form of expensive and substandard lessons. The real traffic schools are in danger of being competed out, and the queues for driving tests are becoming longer as more people fail and have to retake tests. In order to clarify which vehicles belong to a legal traffic school – actually a traffic school – we propose to introduce a specific colour of the registration plate for registered driving school cars. This is to make it easier for the police to stop illegal driving school activities. It has also emerged that some people have put in a system to abuse the possibility of private supervision of driving school pupils by effectively conducting driving school activities against black payment. In order to make it more difficult for individuals to carry out illegal driving school activities, we suggest that the government reduce the number of pupils that a private individual can supervise from 15 to 5. Finally, we note that in September 2019 the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to propose measures against fraud in driving tests and illegal training activities. As small measures are still being taken, there is still a great need to carry out a comprehensive review of driving licence training by setting up a parliamentary inquiry. This study should look at driving licence training, illegal driver training, knowledge requirements and more. A review should also be carried out of the need for recurrent synthesis when the driving licence is renewed. I would also like to remind you of the debate on traffic culture, cheating and compliance that we had on TU13 on car goalkeepers. What happens to our traffic culture when 25 000 vehicles owned by 100 car goalkeepers can be driven around outside our laws? Let me repeat what I said in that debate: it is not about fines, it is about how the policy should close loopholes that serious criminals have been able to exploit for too long. Madam President, I would like Every year, hundreds of people are seriously injured in accidents involving alcohol and/ or drugs. In 2018, more than 14,000 drug-driving offences were reported in Sweden. It is a worrying trend that the proportion of sober road users has fallen since 2014. We believe that it should not be allowed to drive with alcohol or other drugs in your body either on land, on the lake or in the air. It is therefore important to continue the preventive work on zero tolerance of alcohol and drugs in traffic. At last, the government has proposed that alcoboms be set up at ports in order to counteract alcoholic drivers. Unfortunately, the introduction of these barriers is far too slow, and legal quirks have delayed the use of relevant modern technology. It is not reasonable for Helsingborg, for example, to intend to carry out these checks manually, when there is a functioning technology. Automatic alcohol controls have been installed in Gothenburg. There's technology, and it works. It is time to take the next step to combat alcohol-affected road users. We therefore propose that Trafikverket be given the task of moving forward with placing alco-bommers at more strategic locations to make traffic safer and save lives. We also believe that alcohol locks or other technologies that prevent drunk driving should be investigated as requirements in all new cars in Sweden. Further, we believe that requirements for alcohol locks should be introduced in all new vehicles used in driving licence training. It is important for us to step up efforts to prevent accidents caused by alcohol and drugs. Traffic's supposed to be clean. Madam President, I would like If we are to succeed in improving road safety, we must work with traffic culture, technology and laws. By focusing on this golden trinity, we can continue to reduce the risk of accidents and the death toll in traffic.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-836	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 23, which states that the state authorities should make speed compliance requirements in their procurement procedures. Madam President, I would like In my speech, I will talk about measures that the Liberals want to see in order to strengthen road safety. As part of this, I will also touch on our liberal response to the despair felt by people who lose their driving licence because of a synthesis, without having a chance to show that they can still drive safely and get exemption. The safety of our transport systems is a top priority for us liberals. If you do not feel safe, you avoid travelling, and thus hinder the individual's freedom. Sweden is the best in the class when it comes to road safety. The fact that the UN's final conference after a ten-year focus on road safety was placed in Stockholm is proof of this. It became a manifestation of the world's focus on road safety. Many countries' representatives were here to learn and understand how Sweden has succeeded in its road safety work. Madam President, I would like We in Sweden should be proud of what we have achieved, but not satisfied. We must continue to show the way to increased road safety. The number of people killed and injured must continue to decrease. The main causes of accidents are too high speed, alcohol and other drugs as well as fatigue and other inattentiveness. The human factor is responsible for 90% of all accidents. The risk of accidents increases with a higher speed. I would therefore like the government to investigate how the state authorities can set a good example by imposing, in the procurement of transport services, requirements for sustainable speeds, i.e. for suppliers' vehicles to maintain speed. We welcome the fact that there are reliable alcohol locks that are installed in cars. However, it takes a long time for a new system to have an impact on the entire fleet of vehicles. Therefore, we want to see the traffic police in the country relieved of duties so that they can focus on the important traffic control work. We also want to speed up work on alco-boms in our ports. The increase in the number of fatalities on our roads in 2018 was largely linked to roads within the regional road network. The Liberals therefore want to introduce a system of regional road safety agreements, in which the Finnish Transport Agency, in cooperation with the regions, identifies, finances and addresses priority road safety risks. Liberals want the government's efforts and money for road safety to be spent where they best do good. Liberals believe in the potential of technology for increased road safety. We welcome the fact that more and more cars are connected and can share their road safety data to, for example, identify ice spots and other cars in case of cloud vision. Interaction between different actors to make better use of the information in today's vehicles in order to improve road safety should therefore be encouraged. The development of self-driving cars originally came from a need to increase road safety. Gradually, the technology has been developed. The Transport Committee was given information on our study trip to the United States this autumn, and we also experienced the technology. California has reviewed the entire traffic environment right up to how an accident or infringement should be handled if a car with self-driving properties is involved. Liberals are in favour of the many advantages that self-driving cars can bring, while, of course, vehicles must have reached such maturity that they increase road safety when they are introduced. Hand in hand with new technologies to increase road safety on our roads must also increase the basic maintenance of our roads. We want to see increased maintenance throughout the country, not least in the less trafficked road network. Road markings, for example, have a decisive impact on road safety. The Liberals have received support in a previous report for a review of the standard on road markings in our country, for which we thank them. The increase in the share of vulnerable road users in fatal accidents, not least the proportion of cyclists, is a worrying trend. Liberals want to see a review of cyclists' traffic environments and strong measures to curb this trend. Finally, Madam President, I would like to refer to the announcement made by the Liberals on this report. If vision testers are detected, they must be given a chance to show if their ability to drive is affected by the visual defect. They do not have that today, but the licence will be revoked directly for those who fail the visual test. The announcement opens up the possibility for people with diagnosed visual defects to have their driving skills assessed and possibly to get their driving licence back. Liberals want to reintroduce simulator tests as a first step to assess driving ability. However, we see this as a temporary solution. In order to find a long-term solution, we want to start an investigation into a new driving test system on the road, where the person has a chance to demonstrate in a real environment whether the defect has any impact on the ability to drive safely. The investigation will examine how a new road test system can be introduced. Issues such as what should be included in the test and who has the competence to assess the test result should of course be included. In addition, the need for changes to the driving licence law and the driving licence regulation must be clarified, including the possibility of carrying out driving tests in a real traffic environment. One of the problems today is an element 22 situation. The Swedish Transport Agency withdraws the driving licence because it does not pass the visual test and thus removes the possibility of a driving test when you cannot obtain a licence if you are not considered to meet the medical criteria. This makes it impossible for a driving test to be carried out on the way. The Liberals want to change this so that both a synthesis and a test of driving ability on the road will be included in the assessment before the driving licence may be revoked. This is happening today in cognitive assessments of people with stroke and dementia, and we see no reason why the same procedure could not apply to people with visual defects. We would have a double effect with a simpler procedure for driving tests on the road. On the one hand, people can get a chance of exemption, and on the other hand, people who are not currently testing themselves because of the risk of losing their driving licence would increasingly test themselves because they see that they are given a real chance to show whether the driving ability despite the defect is intact. This would increase road safety by testing more people with visual problems. Madam President, I would like The withdrawal of driving licences due to visual defects affects about a thousand people per year, and research shows that, despite minor visual defects, about half of them can still drive safely. As this can affect a person's entire life situation and the possibility of working and pursuing his or her hobbies, it affects us liberals deeply. We therefore believe that this shortcoming should be addressed as soon as possible. We are pleased that so many parties share our view.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-853	Madam President, I would like Death has probably been more present in our thoughts this spring and not least today than it usually is. However, death and anxiety about death are constantly present in our traffic system – with the grandmother waiting for her children and grandchildren to arrive at the Christmas celebration, with the mother who sends her child to school by bike, with the friends who wonder if the friend on the motorcycle should soon be there at the Midsummer celebration. Although Sweden is considered to be a road safety country, too many people are still injured and killed in traffic. In 2019 221 people died in accidents on Swedish roads. It is far fewer than in the previous year when 324 people died – but still too many. Of the 221 fatalities, 132 were motorists and 29 were motorcyclists. There was a decrease in both these groups compared to 2018. Unprotected road users are particularly vulnerable, although they are relatively few in death statistics. In 2019, 27 pedestrians were killed after being hit by motor vehicles. In the same year 17 cyclists died, which is less than in 2018 when 23 died.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-858	Madam President, I would like There is an expression that says: Children are soft, cars are hard. But it is not only children who are soft in relation to cars; Dad is also soft like Grandma. We need to take care of each other in traffic and design a traffic system that is forgiving and in which we avoid drivers' mistakes having serious consequences. A simple measure that actually saves lives is reduced base speed in urban areas. Reducing the speed in urban areas from 50 kilometers per hour to 30 kilometers per hour greatly reduces the risk of dying for the one hit by a car. Most people who get hit by a car driving 30 kilometers an hour survive. In addition, the perceived safety of traffic would increase, which would make more people choose to walk – or to cycle, which is a sustainable mode of transport in many ways. Cycling is also a good way to strengthen public health, as more people thus have the daily need for exercise, which reduces the risk of ill health and disease. Overall, reduced speeds are a good way to create a safer transport system. It also reduces greenhouse gas emissions. I therefore welcome the efforts made by the Finnish Transport Agency to reduce the speed to 80 kilometres per hour on roads that are not perceived as road safety. Only in February this year, the government decided on a new intermediate target to speed up work on the zero vision. Work on this vision to reduce the number of people killed or seriously injured in traffic has been successful. The stage target is a halving of the number of fatalities due to road, maritime and air traffic accidents compared to the annual average number of fatalities in traffic during the period 2017– 2019. The number of fatalities in rail traffic will also be halved. In addition, the number of serious injuries in all modes of transport should be reduced by at least 25 per cent. This objective shall be met by 2030. All four modes of transport are covered by this timed target. However, there are people who die from traffic but are not covered by the zero vision, and they are the ones who die from air pollution. Overall, the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution from traffic is estimated at around 3,000 per year. Each death is estimated to lead to an average shorter life span of 11 years. Of course, this cause of death is not as clear and concrete as being hit by a hard car, but it is still a large number of people who are affected and who could have lived longer and have more years of good health. That is why an extended zero vision is needed, including both those who are injured and killed directly in the event of a traffic accident such as those who die from traffic air pollution. Madam President, I would like I will also say something about the announcement to the government regarding the simulator on the VTI. It has been explained in the past from the speaker's seat, but I would like to remind you that we as Members have a great responsibility in this. The Swedish Transport Agency has noted that people with large field of vision defects have been approved in the simulator at VTI. Of course, some people with visual defects can drive properly, and we would like to see a test of whether they can drive in a safe way. But it is clear that the VTI simulator cannot determine that and that it is not a safe trial. In its evaluation, the Swedish Transport Agency has concluded that the test scenario in the simulator is limited, which means that critical moments such as left and right turn and roundabout driving cannot be evaluated during the run. As I said earlier, those who can drive in a safe way will have the opportunity to do so. But with the VTI simulator there is a risk that people with such severe field of vision defects that they cannot drive safely still have the opportunity to continue driving. We know that the traffic environment is complex and that it is rarely just straight distances. You need to be able to turn left and right and handle roundabouts. I do not want to have on my conscience that I have called for an evaluation that can lead to a driver not seeing that child with the ball that can come from left or right or from the middle of a roundabout. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of our reservation and otherwise of the committee's proposal.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-871	Madam President, I would like I asked the question before whether road safety is as simple as just setting up cameras or whether it is more complicated than that, and we can see that road safety is far more complicated than using automatic control systems.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-873	Speeds have increased out on the road; I note that every time I go out on the road. There are inappropriate overtakings, breaking barriers, stopping signs and too many driving with alcohol and drugs in the body. At the same time, too few people out there can carry out a check. A speed camera can never ever conclude that a person is sober behind the wheel. It can only conclude that the driver is driving faster than is specified as the maximum permitted speed. We need to increase controls on the roads in order to get to those who regularly violate the rules. You don't just put yourself in danger, you put everyone else out in the road environment. For example, you drive a passenger car in an urban environment, a bus stops at the bus stop and a child runs out in front of the bus. You keep the speed limit 50 kilometers but you don't even have time to brake until you hit the baby running out. That's how long the reaction distance is. In my next speech, I will take an example from Stockholm, where I do not understand how they have thought when they have constructed the road environment in the city. But first of all, I would like to ask: are you going to contribute to increased road checks by means of increased efforts by the police, Emma Berginger?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-877	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Green Party, and certainly the Social Democrats, believe that those who regularly violate traffic rules should be able to be prosecuted. That is an important issue. It is also important to get to those who violate the speed rules, but also to those who drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs, which we know is a major risk factor in both killing others and being killed by the way they drive themselves. Automatic control systems with speed monitoring via cameras are an important effort to control the road network continuously. At the same time, traffic police play an important role. The government has made great efforts to strengthen the police, which means that they have greater opportunities to prioritise traffic work. Having said that, I can say that, as a former municipal politician, I am fully aware that it sometimes wishes that police resources would be more adequate in terms of enforcement of traffic rules. There are certainly other things that could be done in this area. As I said, it is important that those who regularly violate the rules can be prosecuted, but, as Thomas Morell has said here, Madam President, this is not always enough. Anyone who comes 50 kilometers an hour when a child steps out in front of the bus does not have time to stop. That is why lowering the speed of the bae in urban areas would have been an effective instrument.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-882	Madam President, I would like There is no similarity between slowing down speed and reducing the risk of accidents. It must be done with a certain logic so that it works and the limitation itself wins respect. Then the traffic law should be separated as far as possible. Vehicle traffic should therefore be separated from cyclists and pedestrians. Every morning when I drive a bus here to Parliament, I am struck by the buses being brought into the bus stop over the bike track. They stop at the stop, where the passengers go on and off, and then cross the cycle track again to leave the stop position. It is more than once that I have jumped high when cyclists come on the outside and are heading under the bus. I have asked the Transport Council here in Stockholm how it is possible to do this. Here we must work together, whether we work locally or at national level, to get a traffic system that works and where people are not put at risk by not thinking all the way. The Traffic Act shall be separated as far as possible. Then I would like to address the problems of the field of vision, which we have discussed today. It is not automatic that a person with a limited field of vision on, for example, an eye is a worse driver. There are a number of examples of this. You may well drive under very difficult conditions, even though you have limited eyesight. There is a professional driver who has had a trucker and driven on, among other things, Turkey for 45 years without the slightest damage over the years. He's proven more than once that he's capable as a driver, but now he's without a driver's license. I note that I did not receive an answer when it comes to the police. Yes, they have been given increased resources, but this does not fall into the roadside checks. That's the problem.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-887	Madam President, I would like What the local traffic situation looks like in Stockholm, I think, is a question to be put to the Transport Commissioner Daniel Helldén rather than to me, who is a former municipal politician in Lund and who has better control of the traffic system there. However, I am of the opinion that it is important to separate the traffic law in the traffic environment of a city. For example, it is important to separate bicycle traffic from pedestrian traffic. There are two types of traffic that are often lumped together on common pedestrian and cycle paths, despite the fact that road users move at very different speeds and conditions. I also think it is a good idea to separate bicycle traffic from car traffic to the extent possible. That is precisely why the government has chosen to allocate funds to the urban environment agreements. It is 1 billion a year that municipalities have the opportunity to apply for co-financing in order to make efforts for public transport, as well as cycling, and to create safe and secure traffic environments. We can create traffic systems, and we can try to make them as safe as possible. But then there is man, who does not always act perfectly. We must have traffic systems that support compliance and are forgiving when people do wrong. Having said that, I think it is important that people take their responsibilities and comply with existing traffic rules. That's the only way we can achieve a safe environment. If we regularly violate the traffic rules that we have in society, we must be able to prosecute. That's my point.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-892	Madam President, I would like I'd like to ask Emma Berginger a question about the simulator test itself. The simulator test is done so that a person runs a certain path where you experience more traffic situations than you do in a normal driving test on the road. The validation carried out by the Swedish Transport Agency has noted that the simulator part itself is not validated. However, VTI has followed up the more than 200 people who have been approved in the test. After two years and eight months, only one person has experienced a minor traffic accident. It is therefore smaller than what people normally experience during the same period. This evaluation has been carried out in reality. I have a question from the point of view that we can see that the people who passed the test cause fewer accidents than we who sit here. I would like to know: how does Emma Berginger feel about the fact that today there is no opportunity to seek an exemption or test her driving ability and that 500 people in Sweden have their driving licence withdrawn, with all the personal disasters that it may entail?
i-2d61f04e66348f69-895	Madam President, I would like I fully understand that it limits an individual's freedom to have his driving licence withdrawn. At the same time, I would like to say that it is not a human right to have a driving licence. We are already restricting the possibility for people to take driving licences at all if they have a visual field defect from the beginning. What is at issue here is that in the event of an emerging visual field defect, acquired during the time the person has had a driving licence, a possible assessment of whether an exemption can be granted. But you should know that if those who have such a visual field defect had gone to take a driving licence for the first time, they would not even have had the opportunity to practice driving or driving up. Of course, we think that if you can drive a vehicle safely, you should have the opportunity to do so. But then it must be proven that it is done in a safe way, and there the Swedish Transport Agency has shown that the VTI simulator is not an adequate way to evaluate the driving ability. Although the driver experiences several traffic situations, several of the most common situations experienced by drivers are not included, such as a right turn, a left turn or a roundabout. You have to drive on a more or less straight distance, otherwise you get nauseous in this simulator. From our perspective, we must find a fair system where we also minimise the risk that we have drivers on our roads who are not able to drive safely. That is precisely why we are saying that we do not want to address an announcement to the government that these tests should be resumed at the VTI. However, we are in favour of finding other ways to ensure that tests can be carried out in the future.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-899	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Berginger for her reply. It is interesting that she addresses the situation from the moment a synthesis has been made and the driving licence has been withdrawn. We can look at how it works today. You can have a stroke or a dementia diagnosis. Then you test the person before you withdraw your licence. There is no need for a new licence. It is precisely this way of testing that the parties behind the announcement want to introduce. With regard to the simulator test, I would like to say that I am the first lawyer for road safety. I've been working on road safety for ten years. If I did not believe in this method, I would never stand in this pulpit and advocate it. It is an authorised driving instructor and a road safety researcher who evaluates this test. There is also the possibility for a third person to evaluate the test. It is therefore a rigorous test that these people are allowed to do, and the driving is assessed before you say that a person should get the driving licence back. I feel very confident about this. But the Liberals' view is that we're going to have an investigation that means you can do the test on the way. We want everyone who has vision problems to test themselves. But they don't today, because if they don't pass the test, you pull the driver's license off. There is a real road safety problem. I do not think I have received an answer to my question to Emma Berginger about how to approach these people who you actually see driving safe and why they should not be tested.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-903	Madam President, I would like With all due respect to Helena Gellerman, I think she is primarily the first lawyer for the right to drive. That is a very important principle for Helena Gellerman. She also seems to judge that she herself is better at evaluating the VTI simulator than what our authority is that has great competence in the field and that has done a proper evaluation of it. Based on the fact that you have actually got approved results in people who have had quite severe field of vision defects and that this simulator does not adequately test the traffic environments that you as a driver will actually encounter out there in reality, you cannot say that a person who has undergone a test in this particular simulator is guaranteed to be a driver who is able to manage his field of vision defect and compensate for it. I think it would be a good thing if there were to be an investigation into how this could be better evaluated. I don't mind. Nevertheless, I am against the idea of pressing for the continued use of this simulator by means of an announcement. I can also take this opportunity to say that it would have been positive if we had worked more with continuous sight tests to ensure that we have people who have a good view on our roads.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-907	Madam President, I would like Road safety engages. 142 requests from members of Parliament from the general period of motion speak clearly. But it is not only the Riksdag and the Members of Parliament who are involved in road safety. Also civil society and the idea-based organisations such as MHF, the National Association M Sweden, NTF and so on do a very important work that is invaluable to us as members of our work in making good decisions. In this report we have a reservation, reservation 18, which we naturally call for. Otherwise, we call for the committee's proposal to be approved. Madam President, I would like Zero vision is fixed. We Social Democrats presented it for the first time in 1996, and we updated it 20 years later. This year, a new milestone has been set, which is a clear increase in ambition. This means that we will halve the number of road deaths, and this milestone covers all modes of transport. The reason that zero vision is so important is because it is about people actually dying in traffic. Our goal is that no one should die in traffic. 2018 was a really dark year. In fact, 113 fewer people died in traffic last year than in the previous year. A total of 221 people died in traffic at the time. It is 221 people for many but still a reduction of 113 people. In this context, I cannot help but mention last week's vote here in Parliament on the Regional Safety Officers, which was about providing a stronger opportunity for safety representatives to ensure safety in the workplace. Each year, some 300 road accidents occur during road work. Last summer the trade union Seko carried out a survey and presented the report "Dangerous for Life". They concluded that 91 percent of their members working in road work experience concerns due to lack of safety at their workplaces. It is unacceptable, and it is unacceptable for people to die at work. We could have helped save more lives in traffic by actually approving this bill. But the right-wing parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, chose to oppose it. Many of the exercises that have come in are, of course, about driving licences, which affect a great many people. The Swedish Transport Agency has also been tasked with reviewing driving licence issues, not least as regards fraud and irregularities in both driving and testing. The mission has been extended. However, while this task has been carried out, some accounts and proposals have also been made, as has been mentioned here earlier today. This involves, among other things, the possibility of prosecuting false assurances. This is very important. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that we are very proud of what we have achieved in our country in terms of road safety. There are a lot of people involved. However, we also need to continue to ensure that vulnerable road users are protected and that unauthorised speed is restricted. We also need to ensure that controls on alcohol and drugs are strengthened.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-916	Madam President, I would like It was interesting that Mr Teres Lindberg raised the issue of road works and the problems there. It is extremely serious that we do not respect the people who work along the roads. We have a number of fatal accidents every year because road workers or rescue workers get hit when they work on the road. The workplaces on the roads are not something you have just made up, but they are there to create a safe road environment or save people who have had an accident. Then other road users must show respect and respect for those who have their place of work there. I don't think anyone in here would want cars traveling about 80 to 90 kilometers an hour behind the chair you're sitting on, or maybe even a big truck ride that comes at 80 kilometers an hour a half meter behind your back. But it's the reality of those who are out there. I cannot understand how the honourable Member can say that an effort on the safety ombudsmen could do anything about this, because the only ones who can take action out there are the police authorities. There is no one else who can prosecute anyone who violates the rule of showing respect and slowing down at a workplace. Because it's a workplace we're talking about-- maybe it's temporary, but it's a workplace after all. Only the Police Authority can stop and prosecute anyone who is out there, and the government has consistently reduced the number of traffic police over the years. The resources to ensure that people are not harmed or killed in the road environment have been reduced. So it would be interesting to know if there will be any change in this in the future.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-920	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the line, Thomas Morell! You're saying it's interesting that I bring up safety at the roadwork. It was you who voted against the strengthening of the role of safety ombudsmen. Safety representatives have an extremely important role to play in workplace safety! A police officer may be able to stop and fine, but it is not the police who regulates safety in the workplace. It is the employer who is responsible for safety, and when the employer does not take full responsibility, it is the safety representative who can go in on behalf of the employees and ensure that something is done about this. It has nothing to do with speed checks. Speed controls can of course help to keep the speed down, which is very important, but don't come here and hit me on my fingers! And don't tell me the safety representatives don't have a role! I would like to point out very carefully to Thomas Morell that those who work at the road work do not have an airbag, Madam President – but they do have the cars, and it is the motorists that the police can fine and deal with. However, they cannot handle the workplace, at least not the traffic police. Instead, it is the safety representatives, and ultimately the employer, who are responsible.
i-FLyjpqiNTC2opzSBwcdmR4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mr Teres Lindberg. Maybe we should slow down a little bit. How are things on the road? What is regulated? Road traffic is strictly regulated by legislation. Who gets to do what out on the road? It is not just stepping out and stopping a vehicle or doing something, but it is strictly regulated in the legislation who can stop and regulate traffic out there. A safety representative may have power in a workplace, yes, but a safety representative has no power out on the road. The only authority that can do anything out there is the Police Authority. A safety representative has no support in the legislation to take action at a workplace on the road, whether it is emergency services, ambulances, road workers or whatever. That workplace cannot be addressed by a safety representative, but we must have another measure there. That measure is the responsibility of the Police Authority, because the Police Authority can prosecute anyone who violates the rules. The police authority may even take the driving licence from the person who violates the rules in such a way that it constitutes a serious danger to the health of the person on the spot. After all, even though it is not often that police take care of the driving licence when someone commits a serious crime in traffic and endangers the health of others. That is why we must reinforce the presence of the police on the roads.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-924	Madam President, I would like As far as the police work is concerned, I am absolutely prepared to lower the tone. I think we fully agree in committee on the importance of police presence, not least at road sites, because of course it affects. But when we come to the workers' rights and to people's being able to feel safe at work, when we come to the idea that no one should have to die at their workplace, I'm not going to lower the tone. I'm going to keep fighting, every day I can, so that people don't have to die at work! In fact, you voted against a proposal that could have helped save lives, Thomas Morell. It was not us, but it was you Swedish democrats, along with the Moderates, Liberals, Center Partyists and Christian Democrats, who went against the bill presented by the government – the bill we discussed here last week. You did it for dogmatic ideological reasons! I will continue to be loud on this issue.
i-2d61f04e66348f69-926	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we have long given priority to road safety, which has made us one of the most road safety countries in the world. However, this has not always been the case. Before the three-point belt was invented, we saw a rapidly increasing number of road deaths and serious injuries, as a result of more people being able to afford a car and increasing the distance between work and housing. Many actors have been involved in the development of the seatbelt, which probably saved millions of lives worldwide. Today the cars are equipped with lots of new technology, but no single technology is considered as revolutionary for road safety as the three-point belt has been. Madam President, I would like The driver's license is for many an important foundation in getting a job. It is worrying that almost half of all licence tests fail. At the same time, new technologies that simplify and develop driving are emerging, and it is important that driving licence training and test are adapted accordingly. It is important not to blur the quality of education, which largely affects the behaviour of our roads, while at the same time it is seen that education must follow developments. The driving licence is such an important part of getting a job, and many young people easily end up in a part 22 where they can't get a job because they don't have a driver's license and can't take a driver's license because they don't have an income. Here we are proposing a system in which the 2nd can be extinguished, just as when inspecting cars. This would mean that students who have made a minor mistake on the driving test were given the opportunity to have that particular part tested and approved at selected traffic schools. So they wouldn't have to repeat the whole test. Madam President, I would like The development takes place in many areas, including automatic or manual gearboxes. Today, completely separate driving licences are valid for cars with automatic and manual gearboxes, which means that it is difficult and expensive to upgrade a driving licence for automatics so that you can drive even manual cars. We want it to be easier to get an upgrade from automatic to manually switched car. Madam President, I would like Sweden is an elongated country, and we have many different weather conditions around the country. Today we have legislation for winter tyres that is uniform for the whole of Sweden, and where we moderates would like to see adjustments made according to the road conditions and weather conditions in different parts of the country. In March, if you take it as an example month, it is very different between Ystad and Haparanda when it comes to what the road team looks like. Madam President, I would like Sweden's zero vision is well known and something we all sign up to. It is an important basis for our work on road safety. Unfortunately, the focus in road safety work has been precisely the safety of motorists, and not enough attention has been paid to those who drive motorcycles. One example of this is cable racks, which have been up earlier in the debate. We therefore believe that it is important for motorcycle drivers to be included more clearly in the work on the zero vision. Road safety should be based on the needs of all road users. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the announcement that Parliament is now addressing to the government regarding visual field defects. At present, the person who has been found to have visual field defects loses his driving licence and has no chance of having his driving skills tested. We want to see the possibility of simulators extended and that in the long term it should also be possible to drive on the road. Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 10.
