i-5cafe13dadcf7968-5	Madam President, I would like It has been interesting to read the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the review of the Swedish Customs Agency and its activities and efficiency. Errors and shortcomings have been found, pointing to elements that can certainly be made more effective. My view is that the Swedish Customs Agency has taken on part of the criticism and that a streamlining work is really in progress. It is also gratifying that the government has finally realised that the Customs Agency really needs additional resources. Now you can start hiring staff again, not least customs officers. It took time, and we had to fight hard. But now reinforcements are in place, and that's good. With the adoption of the budget from the Moderates and Christian Democrats by the Riksdag for 2019, major efforts began as a first step towards 500 more customs officials to strengthen the Customs Agency's activities and its law enforcement missions. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has, in principle, only examined the Swedish Customs' work with regard to imports and nothing with regard to exports. It may not be surprising when that work is not done in principle. The government says that it wants customs to be better at stopping stolen goods on the way out of the country, but for example last summer, virtually no checks were made at all on outgoing traffic. During the months of May to July, customs spent 47 332 hours on checks. Of these, only 234 hours were spent on outgoing checks. Less than 0.5 percent of the time, therefore, was spent on checks on possible stolen goods on their way out of the country. The serious and cross-border crime of thefts has been going on for far too long without the government having taken any action. Today, these leagues are estimated to be responsible for more than half of all residential break-ins in Sweden. They also account for up to 90 percent of other major thefts, such as car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery. Large profits, low detection risk and low penalties are contributing to the ravages of theft gangs in our country. The police see no light in the tunnel while a large number of people, especially in the archipelago and rural areas, suffer these gross violations of privacy where the perpetrators go free. Madam President, I would like I am surprised at the slowness of the government on this issue. We could have had legislation in place a long time ago – a legislation that gives Customs staff the power to detain a person or stop and search a vehicle with suspected stolen goods at the Swedish border. This task now lies with the police – a police officer who, far from always, can be in place to intervene. The result is that the theft leagues can run on the ferry in peace and quiet – and away – is the possibility to prosecute the perpetrators and reclaim the stolen goods. A victim remains who is again violated when the police investigation is closed. That is why we are calling for an immediate amendment of the law to give the Customs staff the power to stop vehicles and people at the border. Madam President, I would like In addition to increased powers, more customs officials and border controls on exports worthy of the name, it is important that we have a strengthened control of imports. Big investments in the police are now rolling out, not least thanks to the M-KD budget adopted for 2019. This is absolutely necessary in a situation where gang crime is reminded almost daily by shootings and blasts. Much of the crime is due to the drugs being smuggled into the country. The Finnish Customs has the possibility today to decide on a so-called postal block, which means that a postal consignment can be detained for inspection. This applies only in the case of suspicion of drugs and does not cover shipments by courier companies such as DHL and Fedex. This means, in practice, that many consignments cannot be controlled at all, whether in the case of drugs or weapons. In the current situation, the Customs Agency must be given increased powers to decide on a postal block, including for consignments delivered by courier companies. Madam President, I would like Freedom of movement within the EU is fantastic, but it was never intended to apply to criminals. This type of crime, which affects people all over the country, has had to go on for far too long without the government having taken any action. If the government is serious about its ambitions to put an end to gang crime and international theft leagues, more customs officials, changes in legislation and improved coordination are needed. A solution to today's situation cannot wait. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of reservation l.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-19	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Swedish Customs Agency's control may at first sight seem somewhat ambiguous. It is written that the overall conclusion is that the Finnish Customs has mainly the building blocks needed to design the control operations effectively. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish Customs Agency has a strained resource situation and that the available resources for control have decreased while the volumes in the flows monitored by the agency are rising. So we are talking about more jobs with less resources. It is also noted that the Customs Agency's budget records have made it clear that this is a problematic development which has a negative impact on the number of controls carried out. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the strained level of resources and a control activity consisting of many different parts, which is involved in this case, impose requirements on resource prioritisation. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that there is information that indicates that the objectives of the Customs Agency's regulation letter to prevent the introduction of drugs and weapons are not being achieved. In view of the damage caused by these goods, it would be justified to examine what would be required to prevent the introduction to such an extent that access is reduced in society rather than continuing to increase. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is that there is a lack of knowledge about the existence and consequences of errors. The Customs Service itself states that the direction of the control shall be based on an assessment of where the main risks are located. Once again, it's efficiency thinking. The Swedish National Audit Office shares this view and notes that the possibility of directing control towards the errors and crimes with the greatest negative consequences for society is a fundamental prerequisite for efficiency. However, the review shows that the Swedish Customs' knowledge of the size of smuggling in different flows of goods and traffic is relatively low, especially regarding the illegal introduction of weapons. The letter from the government and also from the report we are debating at the moment show that the government believes that some of the shortcomings identified are being remedied, that other deficiencies are irrelevant or simply not correct and that some deficiencies should not be addressed by anyone other than the Customs Service itself. There is a certain point in this. Although the Swedish Democrats agree with the recommendations to improve the Swedish Customs Agency's control tools and adaptability, and that the Swedish Customs Administration should use its resources in the way that provides the greatest possible benefit, it must be noted that the Swedish Customs Agency, for example, finds it difficult to evaluate the introduction of illegal weapons, which is very much a problem. This is a major problem, as professionals acquire illegal weapons and, in addition, use them. The increased number of shootings in many Swedish cities in recent years can be assumed to be a symptom of this problem. So there is much to suggest that smuggling is on the increase. This applies to alcohol and cigarettes, as well as drugs and weapons, which is profitable for organised crime. We also know that there is trafficking in human beings, where the smuggled persons are not rarely put at great risk. There are also problems with professional theft gangs moving stolen goods out of Sweden and expect that the risk of detection is low as the outflow of goods is controlled to such a small extent. The Security Commission published a report in 2018 showing that significant quantities of stolen goods are being taken out of the country, and the police noted in a report from 2019 that the Customs Agency spent 98 per cent of the customs control time on import controls in 2017. So 2 % remained for controls on exports. The government's letter to the report indicates that there is simply too little ambition. It is the view of the Swedish Democrats that the Swedish Customs Administration is not given the resources necessary to carry out its mission in a sufficiently good way, even if adaptability and a higher degree of efficiency would be achieved. Resource enhancement is primarily about more staff, but also about the appropriate design of, for example, ferry terminals and adequate access to technical equipment. These may include X-ray equipment, devices for detecting increased carbon dioxide content and more. As regards powers, the conclusion should be that the control mandate is not sufficient. The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly proposed increased powers to curb international and cross-border crime. This should be urgently investigated with a view to facilitating and improving the efficiency of the work of the Agency. The Swedish Democrats therefore do not share the view that the Customs Authority has the mandate and the powers necessary for effective border protection. In our budget movements, we have repeatedly allocated the most resources to the Customs Agency of all parties. It is certainly true that previous government dismantling of the Customs Service has been slowed down, but that is not enough. That is why, Madam President, we need a declaration to the government about strengthening customs operations with increased resources in the form of increased staffing, more equipment, increased powers and thus increased presence at borders, which would result in increased opportunities to strengthen control over what and who is travelling across Sweden's borders. In this connection, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-29	Madam President, I would like There are always two sides of a coin. 25 years ago, Sweden became a member of the European Union. In a quarter of a century we have been able to enjoy the freedom of free movement. We can even move freely and travel across national borders within the European Union. But the freedom that we have been given has also become the opportunity for criminals. No matter how much we welcome free movement within the EU, it must not mean that Sweden's borders are unprotected. The Christian Democrats therefore want to strengthen Customs' law enforcement activities and border protection. We see from the Swedish National Audit Office's report that the Swedish Customs' working methods need to be improved. The Customs Office is today strongly focused on being a tax collection authority under the Ministry of Finance with the main task of controlling the importation of excise goods and collecting tax. We need a shift here. The Customs Department needs to be transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Justice. In this way, the departmental governance of the Authority will focus more on further law enforcement than on the collection of taxes and the control of goods. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office notes that while deadly firearms violence has increased in Sweden, seizures of firearms have decreased from 61 in 2017 to 41 in 2018. One reason for this is that customs do not have the same information on arms smuggling practices as they do on, for example, drug smuggling. This will thus be an Achilles' heel in the fight against organised crime in our country. If the trend of deadly gun violence is to decrease, the number of weapons must also be reduced. This requires an improved ability of the Swedish Customs to stop weapons at the border, and that requires knowledge of how weapons are smuggled to Sweden, what roads they take and what methods are used. We believe that this is missing today. Madam President, I would like The concept of smorgasbord has become part of the international vocabulary. Unfortunately, this word has also become a description of Sweden when it comes to international theft leagues' conditions to take some of each of them off in our country. Let me give you a few examples. In Halland alone, 44 notifications were made in June last year about theft from farmers. It was everything from drilling machines and hundreds of litres of diesel to expensive GPS equipment that sits in many agricultural machines that disappeared from these farmers. Another commodity taken out of the country is boat engines. Up to 2,000 outboard engines are smuggled out of Sweden every year at a cost of SEK 200 – 300 million. The newspaper Expressen wrote last summer about how the Russian mafia hit residential areas. The ravages of these international theft gangs cause social costs that exceed the value of the stolen goods. We must never forget that behind every theft there is a victim, and the progress of gangs contributes to a deterioration of security and undermines the trust that a citizen of society should feel towards other people and the state. As it is now, customs are forced to watch suspicious stolen goods leave the country because customs lacks the task of controlling the export of stolen goods in their regulatory letter. However, the Government has explicitly decided in the regulation letter that the Swedish Customs should control trade in seal products. Madam President, I would like To give Customs officials the power to stop vehicles leaving the country would be a relatively simple measure that could have a major impact. But obviously it is a difficult decision to make for the current government. My colleague, Hampus Hagman, asked the Minister of Finance about when these powers might be in place, both in an interpellation and in a written question. In the written reply, the Minister for Finance replied that the Government is awaiting a final report on a mission given to the Customs Agency. Only then will the government, according to the answer, analyse the question in order to consider possible measures. The final report will be published on 14 February this year. It takes time, and we think it takes unnecessarily long. The Christian Democrats believe that the Customs Agency should be given a clearer mission to control, stop and detain people at the border. Customs' sharper powers to detain will give them better opportunities to control the inflows and outflows of goods and people to and from Sweden. The poor border protection is one of the reasons why the number of crimes is so large and that the clearance is so low in our country. Therefore, the Christian Democrats see the need for a change of law, so that stolen goods and stolen goods are included among the goods that the Finnish Customs can control at the border. Madam President, I would like When Tullverket in spring 2019 placed so-called ANPR cameras at the Öresund Bridge in Malmö, at the ferry location in Helsingborg and in Värtahamnen in Stockholm, it meant that Tullverket installed cameras that automatically read vehicle registration plates. The purpose of these cameras was to alert customs if known contraband cars were about to pass. Without ANPR cameras, customs personnel must manually check tens of thousands of vehicle registration plates. It is a demanding and more or less impossible task. This action taken in the spring of last year was stopped by the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which considered that the system of central analysis of taken images was a violation of privacy. When the Customs Office appealed to the Administrative Court, the Administrative Court ran over the Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision and granted the Swedish Customs the right to store images from camera surveillance in a database. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want ANPR cameras to be used on all border crossings in our country. It is welcome that the government is now saying that it wants to invest more in customs. However, before a reorganisation of customs is in place, police officers need to be placed on the customs team. Unlike customs personnel, the police have the possibility of seizing stolen goods and detainees. Customs officials would also need additional training so that they can act more policely. Today, customs officers have training of up to a year. As the Customs Agency is already carrying out checks on the import of goods such as drugs, it teaches that the training is being redesigned in order for customs to be able to seize stolen goods. However, it needs to be supplemented by certain elements. The Christian Democrats believe that the potential benefits for society that would arise if Sweden got better border protection would be extensive – fewer people staying illegally in Sweden, fewer illegal weapons and less drugs that criminals can sell in alienation areas. Madam President, I would like In this connection, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 6 on the powers and activities of the Customs Service under paragraph 2.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-48	Madam President, I would like Ever since the previous government took over, we have gradually contributed money to the Swedish Customs Agency to enable them to fulfil their mission better, make more checks and stop more of the problematic smuggling that we see in Sweden. We have turned the trend and shifted the focus from tax cuts to substantial additions both to the Swedish Customs Agency and to the police to overcome social problems that have been around for a long time. As far as customs is concerned, it is primarily about stepping up the fight against arms and drugs entering the country, but it is also, of course, about participating in and developing European cooperation and simplifying trade in, for example, new e-services. This development has only just begun and will have to continue. We will not be satisfied until we have reasonable control of what comes into the country and it is as simple as it can be to trade with other countries. Adding additional tasks and powers to an already strained authority before this is in place is not very smart. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office shows that we are heading in the right direction. However, some areas of improvement are also identified, particularly in the area of knowledge acquisition and compilation, in order to evaluate different interventions and the construction of new systems that take a little too long. A lot is going on, as I said. An investigation of postal barriers has already been carried out to increase the possibility of stopping goods even in the courier flow. It is now being prepared by the government. The issue of joint government efforts and opportunities to exchange information and cooperate more are constantly topical issues on which work is being done. Several exercises deal with the export of stolen goods as well as extensions and extensions of Tullverket's operations. Of course, it is a problem that people's property is stolen around Sweden. Every smuggled product, whether it's drugs, weapons or any other illegal thing that comes into the country, is a big problem. But overall, Customs' operations are moving in a good direction. More officials are trained each year and enter the business. Also materially, the agency is strengthened with both equipment and opportunities to expand its operations to more locations and with new methods if necessary. Nevertheless, it is important to point out in this House that much of what is being exercised is matters over which the authority itself has its say. How it should be managed and what should be used at any given time is not something that we need to control in detail from here. The theft gangs that we know of act quickly and remove stolen goods from the country before the police can react. Often the stolen goods are probably out of the country even when the theft is discovered. In order to solve this problem, the government has already instructed the police, customs and Coast Guards to review what needs to be done and how they can deal with the problems better together. These three authorities currently have different responsibilities, and stolen goods are now primarily a police matter. How we are going to deal with this in future between the authorities must be able to make proposals before we come forward with any decisions in this House. We all agree on the goal of stopping the gangs' activities and securing the stolen goods to get it back to the owner. I don't think there's any doubt about that. If there are to be more customs officials looking at the exits, more police officers in the country or at the borders to hunt suspects and greater opportunities for the Coast Guard to monitor the traffic on the lake or a combination of this is so far an open question. The tendency in the debate has been just to look at the Customs Agency and point out this authority as responsible for everything that crosses borders. It's not that simple. It is rather foolish to do so, although it is obviously the easiest link to point to the limit and the authority working there. Many times it is of course a good thing, but the simplest form of debate is not always the easiest way to achieve the actual goals. This work must be done with caution and careful consideration, not as a spinal cord reflex with just one thing to the eyes. When we implement measures, the leagues tend to switch roads out of or into the country, and we need to be flexible in how we respond to it. In addition, changes and extensions of authorities' powers and responsibilities have a major impact on the entire business. We have heard a couple of times here how bad resources both police and customs have, and that is true. That's why we've been providing resources all along so that more people can be trained and hired. But watering down the authorities before you have enough staff in place does not really seem like a good solution to overcome any problems. The task entrusted to the authorities must also be reported on 14 February. Then we will have a better idea of how they want to solve the problems and how we can be helpful there, i.e. whether it is resources that need to be moved or added, whether new powers are needed or whether new legislative spaces are to be created. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-62	Madam President, I would like All I'm saying is, at last, the Tullverket has actually increased its resources! After all, we had to fight for quite some time; it was a long way off for the government to realise what a disaster we have at our borders. Patrik Lundqvist says in his speech that it is not responsible to give Tullverket's staff additional powers. He says that it is a major problem that stolen goods leave our country, and in the same breath he says that we cannot or will not do anything about it. At the same time, you say that the authorities have to decide for themselves, Patrik Lundqvist, but what the authorities do not control is what powers they have. We have the opportunity here in the Swedish Parliament to change this, and what I can see after looking at the reservations and debate articles, there is a broad majority to give the Swedish Customs precisely the power to take care of both stolen goods and people at the border. That is why I still have to ask Patrik Lundqvist a question. Here the government finally has a proposal for which there is a majority in the Swedish parliament and which would bring back the victims of crime in our country. Crimes could be investigated. Why this slowness when it comes to something that the Swedish people want, for which the Riksdag wants and for which there is a majority? What's the problem, Patrik Lundqvist?
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-65	Madam President, I would like It is true that it took the government a long time to realise that more resources were needed. It took until we actually changed the color of the government before it understood this fact, and then the money also began to fall in. We stopped reducing taxes and instead added resources to the authorities. Of course, this applies not only to the Finnish Customs, but also to the police, which has much more resources – and more is on the way. As I said earlier, the results of the joint mission to discuss and jointly resolve these issues will be delivered on February 14th. Then we will have a better basis than what we have today. Surely we can create common majorities in this House, but if we do not have a basis on which to go, we do not know what the results will be. We will have it in place soon, and then we will start working. Meanwhile, the police are given more resources to deal with theft leagues and carry out their mission. Of course, it is primarily the police's job to catch criminals and take the right of stolen goods.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-68	Madam President, I would like Both Patrik Lundqvist and I know that the money would not have been in place at Tullverket if it had not been for KD's and Moderates' budget. Patrik Lundqvist and I both sit on the Transparency Council and know exactly how this has been done. So there was no need for a change of government for this; on the contrary, we have been bringing the resources to both the Customs and the police for a long time. Patrik Lundqvist refers to the fact that it is the police who have the opportunity and responsibility to take care of stolen goods and people. Like me, Patrik Lundqvist comes from rural areas where there are no policemen. They are far from always at the border, and I can understand the customs officials standing at the border feeling an incredible frustration that they are forced to drop both stolen goods and people across the border because the police are simply not in place. Again, Patrik Lundqvist : What is the problem? Why this slowness when there are concrete, sensible proposals – which have a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament – in ways to prevent stolen goods and people from disappearing from our country? Victims are still standing when nothing is done.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-71	Madam President, I would like Of course, we can argue so much about how this money has come about, but it is a fact that nothing happened until there was a new government in place. It has also provided resources beyond the times you have won votes on budgets, Helena Bouveng. When we have the situation of explosions and shootings throughout our country, we need to increase control of weapons and drugs in particular. These are the goods that enter the country and drive this development; the gangs are fighting more and more about the drug trade and the income it brings. In this situation, moving customs officials from entry into to exit from the country, without first having human resources to take full care of it, does not seem at all a good priority. It is a fact – I think most people who have ever travelled a ferry know – that entry and exit from the ferry do not take place in the same place. It is not the case that the customs officials who stand and watch what comes into the country at the same time look at what is being carried out. In fact, we need to do that priority, as it stands today. The police have their mission, and they get more resources. They need to be able to handle this much better.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-74	Madam President, I would like Today we have three fiscal authorities, all of which, in addition to being fiscal, are important for the Swedish legal chain – the Swedish Tax Agency, Kronofogden and Tullverket. The Customs Agency is perhaps the one of the three fiscal authorities that acts to the greatest extent in law enforcement. The Customs Office has two main tasks: firstly, the collection itself, i.e. the levying of duties, taxes and other charges. On the one hand, it is the pure law enforcement system, where, among other things, illegal imports of alcohol, drugs and weapons are to be prosecuted. The extent and systems of smuggling of alcohol and drugs make me come to my senses. We're talking about a million-dollar deal, where it's hardly private use. This leads to increased abuse, crime and suffering, not least among our young people, who today have much easier access to alcohol than was the case in the past. The Customs Agency needs tools and resources to strengthen its work to protect our borders and combat crime. Our borders consist not only of border markings in nature or customs stations in some – too few – locations, but also of Coast Guards. Coast Guards play an important role in law enforcement, smuggling and, not least, emergency preparedness. Through clearer assignments and dialogue from the government, Coast Guards can do much more resource efficient work in collaboration with other authorities than is currently the case. The Customs Agency is also important in ensuring that our companies are competitive with other countries. We must already take up the height of the Swedish Customs' work in connection with Brexit. The Swedish Parliament needs to ensure that the Swedish Customs Agency has legislation that is appropriate for its operations. Madam President, I would like The Customs Department needs to increase controls to detect what we do not want or see in our country: weapons and drugs. During the visits I and the Center Party made at various customs stations, we have seen everything from advanced technical aids such as a mobile scanner in Helsingborg, which is looking for a truck container – an expensive but effective investment to find hidden drugs – to amazing collaborations between customs officials and the drug dog Boy in Haparanda. As a result, customs seizures of drugs and tobacco are increasing, but more is needed. I am convinced that every bet on the Swedish Customs Agency gives the same amount back to society. We are aware of the consequences of making it easier for young people to have access to alcohol, and the same applies to drugs. As far as arms smuggling is concerned, we are faced with the fact that deadly gun violence is increasing, but arms smuggling is decreasing. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office has noted that the Swedish Customs Service has a lack of knowledge of the arms smuggling practices. It is of the utmost importance that both customs and government take this very seriously in order to increase the seizure of weapons at our borders. Madam President, I would like An issue which is at least as important for customs work and which has certainly been dealt with in another committee – the Committee on Justice – last year, but which nevertheless deserves to be mentioned, is that of the criminal law protection of bluelight personnel and the exercise of authority. Protecting from threats, violence and sabotage should be as obvious for employees at the Customs Agency as for blue light personnel. For some reason, this was not the government's opinion, but the parliament received an announcement that customs personnel would enjoy the same legal protection. Customs personnel face both violence and threats, and the agency has a law enforcement mission. I and the Center Party will follow this issue closely. A safe staff does a good job. Madam President, I would like Then there's this thing about stolen goods that disappears out of the country. It may sometimes be a far greater problem than the crime itself — the theft. Is there something that can undermine confidence in the authorities and the judiciary at large, I think it is when law enforcement authorities, such as customs, may not detect drugs at the end of a vehicle, as was first suspected, but rather boat engines or chainsaws and are forced to let it pass because the police are delaying too long? There must be another change here. The fact that customs have to call the police to prevent suspected stolen goods from being smuggled leads to problems, as the police have many other tasks that need priority. Suspected stolen goods are not covered by the Swedish Customs Authority's powers at Sweden's border with another country within the EU. The Center Party wants Customs officials to have the authority to investigate vehicles and detain persons found with suspected stolen goods by adding this to the aforementioned law. The committee has previously agreed that the Customs Agency will be given an extended mandate. The Center Party knows that the government has assigned a mission to the Customs Agency, the Police Authority and the Coast Guard. The aim of the mission is to increase the capacity to combat organised crime committed by international crime networks. As we have heard, the investigation is due to be closed in February. If that is enough, it remains to be seen. We will follow this closely and are no stranger to pushing the issue forward both in committee and in the budgetary process on the outcome of the mission and the government's future actions are failing. Customs staff must have the power to detain suspected criminals and suspected stolen goods until the police arrive, as long as necessary, whether it be drugs or quadricycles. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is also important for the Customs Agency to be given the power to retain courier items and not just postal items as is the case today. The Center Party wants to extend the competence of both postal and courier consignments to consignments that are supposed to contain other illegal goods, such as weapons, in addition to drugs. The Parliament has previously decided on announcements regarding both increased powers in this area and increased penalties for the smuggling of weapons and explosives. This can also lead to increased opportunities to use secret coercive measures in investigations, which we welcome. The matter has been investigated and is now being prepared by the government. The Center Party expects clear and relevant proposals to prevent smuggling in the mail and courier flows. We also welcome the fact that arms smuggling is being broken out into a specific criminal offence, as has happened with drug smuggling, and we hope to deal with such proposals in the Committee on Justice. Madam President, I would like The Swedish legal chain should work. Here are our three fiscal authorities central, as well as the police, the Prison Service and the Prosecution Authority. I note that the need to strengthen the justice chain has increased. When those who commit crimes find new ways to work, the authorities must follow. The Customs Agency has the capacity to do a good job; now we have to ensure that resources and instruments are at their disposal. I hereby request the approval of reservation 11.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-96	Madam President, I would like I listened carefully to what Helena Vilhelmsson said in her speech, and I think we can agree on most of it. Before that we heard the Social Democrats, whose government Helena Vilhelmsson's party now unfortunately supports. I could hear that there was a certain reluctance to give powers and that there was a fear of impoverishing the resources for increased powers for customs officials, not least in terms of exit, as Helena Vilhelmsson described well. I also thought that Helena Vilhelmsson described Customs' possibilities in postal consignments very well. Even there, I can see that we are very much in agreement. My question to Helena Vilhelmsson is as follows: Is Helena Vilhelmsson prepared to support a committee initiative if we want to push for one, so that Tullverket really gets the powers that both Helena Vilhelmsson and I are asking for?
i-7bsWzcTMpwsHQuhxHNKgW7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Bouveng, for the question! I was in on this in my speech. That depends on what committee initiative you, Helena Bouveng, are talking about – this is a broad issue. However, if, in your view and in my view, the mission of cooperation that is being delivered now in February does not contain adequate measures, we are absolutely prepared to raise issues in committee. In addition, we are prepared to work on this issue in the budgetary process. The Center Party has always said that customs must have the power to detain. There's a difference between detaining and seizing and detaining while waiting for the police. Detaining, we think customs can do. However, one should be aware that this is also a drain on resources; it is probably necessary to allocate staff and so on. That is why this is also a budget issue. In answer to your question, Helena Bouveng: If the investigation does not deliver in our opinion adequate proposals, we are absolutely prepared to pursue the issue in committee.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-103	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Vilhelmsson for her stretched hand. At the same time, we believe that 500 new customs officers are an effective means of improving border protection. Moreover, it takes a year to train a customs officer while it takes three or four years for a police officer, so it is quite fast to get resources. We in the Moderates believe that, in the longer term, up to 2 500 customs officials are needed to have effective control of both entry and exit. I look forward to including this in your negotiations in the budget process, so that we really do get the powers that both Helena Vilhelmsson and I are asking for. I call that really good bourgeois politics, so I wish you luck. We'll get the evaluation on February 14th. However, I am a little worried that it is taking too long; we may not have legislation in place until 2021. Is Helena Vilhelmsson prepared to speed up this process, so that we really get legislation in place and so that these theft leagues cannot ravage, not least in the countryside and in the archipelago?
i-PzLjUzXFLmBy3bhKSDiyaQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Bouveng, for your good wishes! The Center Party has a reservation about exits. And I totally agree with Helena Bouveng. We have been fighting for this issue for very many years, and I am afraid it will take too long. Even if adequate measures were to come, they may not be in place until 2021. That is why I am prepared to look at precisely the issue of detention and whether adequate measures can be put in place in the past. Maybe it'll cost resources. We will not get that in place until 2021, if we do not have time to include it in our amending budget, but I do not think so. We can probably hook our arm and work on this issue in the future so that it will hopefully be good.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-109	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we in the Left Party are in favour of adding the letter of the audit to the record. We also agree with the recommendations proposed. When I visit the agency in my hometown, they say they are happy to recruit even more. That is what has been asked for, among other things, and that is precisely what is being done at the moment. In addition, we support the financial reinforcement given to the agency this year. I also note some bourgeois movements on professional and illegal weapons. One wonders a little then: where are the proposals for measures before criminality arises, where are the preventive measures, proposals that make no one pick up a weapon at all? Where are the proposals in the other committees for more equal housing conditions and an equal school? On the contrary, the bourgeois parties are increasing the divides between people. I think we should take this into account when discussing the Customs Agency today. It is the same bourgeois parties that want to work hard and efficiently to divide wage earners, divide Swedes and immigrants, men and women, permanent employees and hired personnel, and who think that the sick should pay the healthy tax cuts and so on. Yes, the list can be made very long. For us in the Left Party, the aim is to increase equality in society and reduce economic disparities. This is the most important task we can carry out here in Parliament. This requires a strong distribution policy aimed at the groups most in need.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Tony Haddou for a brief and concise speech. Madam President, I would like Stopping crime and entry at Sweden's borders is socially effective. It is therefore gratifying that we are now investing more in the Customs Agency and its tasks. The Customs Agency has an important role to play in combating the smuggling of drugs, weapons and dangerous goods, but also in the establishment of CITES, the fight against the trafficking of endangered animals, which is the fourth largest illegal trade worldwide. However, imports from non-European countries are only being examined, which is now a major shortcoming. Europe has run a place where ivory and other parts of endangered animals are traded while this black money is being laundered. Not infrequently, economic flows from illegal trade come together, and those benefiting are the major criminal networks. Madam President, I would like Sweden's customs services have more than 300 seized goods per year linked to endangered animals. Postal packages are a major problem in detecting trade in endangered animals. The packages may contain small parts of ivory for jewellery and more. An average of 55 elephants are killed a day, and if this continues, the elephant will be endangered within ten years. I would like to highlight this because no one else will do so, even though we are quite in agreement in this House on the direction in which we want to go, that we want to invest more in the Customs Agency. The Customs Agency can play a major role in combating the trade in endangered animals. Sweden can also support the European Commission's latest proposal to further restrict trade in ivory. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-120	Madam President, I would like The Customs Agency's activities are crucial if we want to curb crime, take the fight with the criminal gangs properly and stop the influx of illegal weapons, hand grenades, drugs and other things that we do not want in Sweden. It is quite clear that we in Sweden today have not done enough. It is true, as the Left Party said, that we must also do something to reduce socio-economic vulnerability. It is about strengthening schools in vulnerable areas, ensuring that more jobs are created and that people are lifted out of poverty. But it is also true that, regardless of the background, one commits a serious crime if one engages in drug trafficking, dealing with illegal weapons or, worse still, using illegal weapons. I am very pleased, Madam President, that the Liberals in the January Treaty constellation have been the cornerstone of law enforcement. We have pushed through major investments in the entire legal chain, the police and the courts, and we will of course also have to prioritise Customs' operations. We need to listen more to what the Finnish Customs themselves say, because it's not as simple as it's just hand grenades and guns being smuggled across the border. Customs in Malmö testifies to how the criminal gangs smuggle candy across the border, because candy prices due to the candy tax are higher in Denmark than they are in Sweden. They thus earn money by smuggling candy across the border and also finance with candy smuggling the activities of blasts, shootings and other things that we can read about in the newspapers almost every day. That is why we need to strengthen customs so that we have the time and resources to prioritise not only the most serious crimes but more crimes than that. Liberals have for a long time also been a driving force for strengthening customs powers. I think it's crucial that we keep up. When gangs and other criminals develop their activities and their way of working, the law enforcement authorities need to do the same. I would therefore like to endorse our reservation 7, which deals specifically with the powers of customs. I think it is crucial that we take these issues seriously jointly in this House. Customs is crucial. We can sweep away this fact by blaming a lot of other things, as the Left Party did here in the debate earlier, and just talking about socio-economic differences. Of course it could be a problem. It may be a problem that people have different opportunities in life. But you can't blame it when it's pushed, when it's running, and when life is falling apart. One cannot blame it instead of investing properly in customs and strengthening customs powers. Having said that, Madam President, I thank you for my a little shorter four minutes than usual and thank you for this debate.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-128	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it's impossible not to ask for a line at Joar Forssell. He was before me on the list of speakers, but when he did not enter the Chamber, I had to speak before him. Such are our rules of debate in this House, and it is good that we respect them. Joar Forssell said that the role of the Finnish Customs is crucial. I think we can agree with each other a lot about that. Another good thing he said was that we should listen to the customs staff. I think that is also crucial. But now I'm gonna stop sucking up to Joar Forssell. He said what the Left Party said is true. In my speech, however, I clearly called for preventive measures. It is about preventive measures so that people do not pick up weapons in Sweden, so that you do not get involved in it. Where are the proposals for more equal housing conditions or, for example, equivalent schools? Where are those proposals? Now that crime occurs, you're a little alarmist on anabolic and so on. But we are in a situation where we need to work in the long and short term. The suggestions for how to work in the long term shine with their absence.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-132	Madam President, I would like I should like to apologise to Mr Tony and the other Members for being late for the debate. I was at a meeting about the weapons warehouse. It is an issue in which the government is completely out of hand trying to go after people who are not actually criminals. I was at the meeting trying to stop the Left Party, the government and others who want to strike a blow in the air instead of strengthening customs powers, which could curb crime. It's interesting to listen to Tony Haddou. If you listen carefully, you hear that he does not talk about equal chances of life. He does not say that people who live in Rinkeby or Tensta, where I have lived for years, should be able to go to a good school and see friends who grow up to be entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs and feel hopeful. What Tony is talking about is that everyone should have it equally bad. Everyone's supposed to be just as bad. We'll be completely equal. There should be no difference. Madam President, I would like Differences are not the problem. The problem is poverty, social vulnerability, overcrowding and fewer entrepreneurs in Tensta than in Östermalm. The problem is that the children who grow up in each area feel that they have different life chances. That's the problem. If you want to get to it, make it easier to be an entrepreneur and an entrepreneur. We need to ensure that there are shorter permit processes and lower taxes. We need to strengthen the school and increase the level of knowledge so that people, regardless of their background and the choices your parents have made, can become just what they want and feel hopeful. If you want to do so, you should not do as the Left Party and through representatives negotiate with the Swedish Democrats to remove, for example, teachers' assistants in vulnerable areas. It is unserious policy, Tony, and it will lead to less hopefulness and increased gaps.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-137	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Joar Forssell! But that was nowhere near a real answer to my question. I called for preventive measures and would have liked to have answered my question. It was also one of the most dishonest ways of debating that I have experienced in this House. When we talk about equal growing up conditions, it can be about equal school. It's about everyone having a good time, not everyone having a bad time. The system that you have built up– you have, among other things, tried to reduce taxes for 30 years and think it's a good idea– has led to the rich pull away properly and the poor are left behind. It is those differences and gaps that you have created. That's the big problem. The core of the problem is that rich people are pulling away and leaving the poor behind. This is done at the expense of those with lower incomes. Today sick people pay the tax cuts of the rich. It's a big problem. And it's a society you've created. With regard to school and good education, today we have a school where the parents' educational conditions or the school in which the child ends up play a major role. That is also a major problem. You had coal on your school. Oh, my God! Let's see how it went. You divided children into A- and B-teams. There was a clear sense of business when it came to the children. It divided the children and created the divides in society. That's the big problem. That's where crime occurs. In unequal societies, crime arises. I had hoped that at some point the Liberals could see that.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-141	Madam President, I would like This debate is about customs. I have not heard any proposals from Tony Haddou on how to deal seriously with the problems that the country has. Guns and drugs are smuggled in, and candy sold expensively in Denmark is smuggled to finance bombs and shootings. People's lives are ruined by drug trafficking in this country. Tony Haddou has not wanted to answer what to do about it, but rather to have a debate on inequality. I'd love to take it. I did not hear any answers as to why you, Tony Haddou, and your party colleagues negotiate with the Swedish Democrats through representatives to ensure that we do not get teachers' assistants and thus can strengthen schools in vulnerable areas in the country. Why do you look through agents to cut off reforms that could be preventive? Another thing that could be preventing crime is to make sure that the income of the criminal gangs is strangled. I have lived in Tensta, and I understand that the people who grow up and feel hopeless try to find something else. If there is a gang-criminal older person who is friends with someone who can offer some money on his pocket if you just wheel and sell some drugs, it can be attractive. We must strangle their access to violent capital in the form of weapons and their access to drugs, which will enable them to maintain their activities. How it's done, Tony Haddou has no answer. The whole left has no answer to that. Care must be taken to strengthen schools, to ensure that more people can be entrepreneurs and become entrepreneurs, and to ensure that people are lifted out of poverty. It is poverty that is the problem, not that other people have succeeded. At the same time, we will strengthen customs powers, invest in the judicial system and ensure that more people are not cut back in gang criminal activities. There, Tony Haddou and the Left Party lack answers.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-146	Madam President, I would like This debate is about the Swedish tax system and what tax system we should have to finance the public sector and to meet the problems that exist in Sweden and around the world. For environmental problems tend not to be local but are everywhere and shared by all mankind. The first question you have to ask yourself when introducing a new tax is whether it fulfils the purpose you have with it. Another question you have to ask yourself is whether it is effective, if it harms jobs, if it contributes to greater equality, if it contributes to increased competitiveness and many other types of questions. After all, a tax system is not a game. It is not a bouncy castle, an experiment, a Finnish ferry or anything else. The Swedish tax system must be taken seriously. Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that we have ended up in a situation where there is hope and play in the Swedish tax system, experiments and, frankly, nonsense. Why is it bad to introduce the kind of tax now being proposed? It's about taxes on plastic bags that are supposed to give the government quite large revenues and households large expenses. But those who introduce the treasure think that it should not remain after a little time, because they want to get rid of the plastic bags in society. This is bad because it creates uncertainty as regards public sector funding. One can be quite sure that the money available this year will not be available next year. When there is uncertainty about public sector financing, there is considerable uncertainty about private sector investment. Then everyone knows that any other tax will need to be increased next year and the year after that. And then you're not sure what to invest in. We do not know how it will be taxed. You don't know if you can create the jobs or products you want. Next year, perhaps, the same hope and play in the tax system will cause the very thing that is supposed to be affected by a penalty tax. Then it hits all the people who are out of work and against the country that is going without investment, because instead you go to a country where you can trust that the policy is robust and lasts over time. Madam President, I would like Such nonsense in the tax system as this is something that affects Sweden more than one might first think. It sends a signal to all those operating in the public sector that their funding is uncertain. It also sends a signal to all those who want to make an investment or something else in Sweden that next year they may arbitrarily suffer a tax increase or an increase in their production or consumption because we in Sweden have a lot of uncertain tax bases that we do not know how to cover. Madam President, I would like For these reasons, the Swedish tax system should not be treated like this. You can tell Magdalena Andersson at the Ministry of Finance that the Swedish tax system is not hhähä and häpp häpp. Let us look a little more at the issue. The tax is justified by the fact that there is plastic in the oceans. It is difficult to imagine something more tragic than the death of animals or even the extinction of animal species because we humans do not take responsibility for our planet. Of course, we who love animals and nature and who spend a lot of time in nature mourn the situation. It pains to see a choice that has a whole stomach full of plastic, or ecosystems that are exterminated or stop working because we humans do not take responsibility. On Facebook a picture is circulating that has become viral and popular. In the text it said something like this: There is plastic in the oceans. I'll go to Ica and get my food. Then I take the bag with me one more time when I go to Ica and shop next time. Then I use it for garbage that I throw in the trash, if there is one, or in the garbage can. I didn't know the council dumped these garbage in the ocean. This isn't a municipality either. 95% of all plastics that end up in the sea come from ten river systems located in Asia and Africa. Because of this, Swedish households must pay SEK 3 for each plastic bag you buy when you go shopping. There will be quite a lot of money for families with children who need to do a lot of shopping. I believe, however, that there is an even greater threat to do as the government now chooses to do with the support of the Center Party and the Liberals. It's that people naturally ask themselves the question: Now I'm going to pay 3 kroner more because plastic is released into the sea in Africa and Asia. How can politics be like that? This leads us to ask ourselves in the next round whether there are more areas where politics is just as stupid and ill-considered. Are there other areas where arguments for things are being made up or made up? This undermines legitimacy and credibility as we really need to be tough and to tell households that something needs to cost for it to destroy. Then the credibility is already assured. There is no one who believes that the tax that we are introducing today is reducing either littering or discharges into the seas. The Economic Institute has reviewed this and, on the contrary, writes that there is no indication that it would lead to reduced littering. Worse still, it is said, it is probably bad for the environment and climate to introduce this. This will lead to other alternative uses of, for example, worse bags, leading to increased emissions. Calculations show that introducing this tax and halving the use of the plastic bags used today will increase emissions by 300 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, as, among other things, more waste bags will be consumed. These garbage bags are made of fossil material in Asia. They have a negative environmental impact. The plastic bags consumed in stores today are 75 - 80 percent made of renewable or recycled materials. So they have a very small climate impact. Now you should make these bags 3 crowns more expensive, but it will continue to be possible to buy hundreds of rolls of plastic bags made of fossil material in Asia. This will increase emissions. Madam President, I would like This leads to many questions. Why do you do this? The experts advise against it. There is no environmental benefit. This is driven by an ideological conviction, not for objective reasons, research or arguments. I wonder why social democrats, liberals and center-partists are putting up with this policy which ultimately has two consequences. It will be more expensive for ordinary Swedish families to go to the store and shop, and we will increase the emissions of carbon dioxide into the environment. At least the left-wing proposal has some kind of logic: ban all plastic bags! This would probably lead to huge problems, but it would not cause us to break down Swedish industry that produces environmentally friendly bags and instead replace them with fossil-produced bags from Asia. The latter is completely illogical. The January Group has many shortcomings, and I dare say that this is one of the more serious shortcomings, Madam President. It rejects facts and research in favour of implementing dogmas and ideological beliefs. This time it affects the environment, the seas, carbon dioxide emissions and Swedish households. Having said that, I would like to support the reservations of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats on this matter.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-164	Madam President, I would like If anyone wonders why we are standing here today, we will probably find the explanation in the January agreement, the document that the government wants to use to govern Sweden. It shows that a green tax shift of 15 billion will take place during this term of office. Is there a change of taxes? Yes, it must be about financing the abolition of the defence tax with environmental taxes. How does the government intend to get the 6 billion to the Treasury? Yeah, with a tax on plastic bags. Hopefully this will lead to generating SEK 2.1 billion this year. Is that it? The government has assumed that the new tax of SEK 3 per bag will reduce consumption by 30 percent. The remaining 70 per cent of consumption should, according to the government's assumption, remain as a tax base. We cannot be entirely sure of how the market reacts, but let us at least go to the information available. A letter from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in 2016 states that in countries where charges have recently been introduced, such as Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland, there has been a decrease in demand of around 80%, despite modest fees of the equivalent of less than one crown. ..................................................... At the same time, we see that the amount of plastic bags in trade has decreased without taxation. It is therefore my view and that of the Swedish Democrats that the remaining 70% tax base is a false assumption and that the government does not come very close to the 15 billion needed. The government will have to compensate for the military tax in some other way. Perhaps a green tax shift is good for the environment? No, not from the point of view of resource or carbon dioxide. The data differ as to how many times you have to use a cotton cloth bag before it becomes profitable from a resource point of view. It is no wonder, because there are many different cotton bags. In 2018, Danish researchers compared different bags based on 15 different criteria, including toxicity, water consumption, climate impact, carbon footprint and ozone impact. The report shows that a fabric bag made of organic cotton must carry home food 20 000 times in order to be as resource-efficient as a plastic bag. Figures from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are less dramatic. 130 - 400 times you have to use a regular cotton bag. But at the same time, garbage bags are needed to collect waste. That's how most consumers re-use their plastic bags. Instead, you can use a plastic bag on a roll. I do not really know how the government intends this. What remains as an argument is probably plastic in the sea. But very much suggests that Swedish consumers are good at not littering with plastic bags in nature. Anyone who listens here will feel a lot of resistance to dumping plastic in the sea. You just don't. We also have a very good system to collect and incinerate garbage – or reuse it. The plastic used in plastic bags today has 80 percent recycled material. Both industry and trade are working ambitiously on this. I can say that neither trade nor industry is particularly fond of this tax. It's not the Institute of Economics either. I'm reading from the referral: a memorandum does not give reason to expect that the proposed tax will (i) reduce litter, (ii) reduce the presence of microplastics in nature and/or (iii) streamline resource use. Rather, there is a risk of increased resource consumption. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like In conclusion, this is yet another example of weak symbolic policy on the part of the government. Surely it will always be noticed when we float around with our cotton bags, and it will probably be heard when Mr Svensson swears that he has forgotten the cotton bag at home. Of course – this will be noticed. The government makes a difference and affects people and their lives. Is that the purpose? Or is the purpose of giving the customs duty that we just heard was overloaded extra mission to check smuggled plastic bags? I repeat: this law provides no or insignificant environmental benefits and symbolic revenues for the state. It implies unnecessary recourse to the administrative resources of the state and society. Therefore, we should recycle this law and pass the paper it is printed on to the recycling of paper. I support the reservations of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-176	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report. What is proposed here is that we introduce a tax on plastic carrier bags. This applies only to the bags that are packed and carried in, for example, from the store, not plastic bags for durable use, which are also available. It does not apply to garbage bags or freezer bags. However, this also applies to plastic bags of what is called renewable materials, which also become microplastics in nature. The tax is SEK 3 per bag. If it's a thinner and smaller variant, it's 30 cents per bag. The taxable persons are the manufacturers and importers. Then there are exceptions. If you buy a maximum of 40 pieces per occasion and, for example, you are not liable for tax. It is also not taxable if you buy for your own use. It is deferred stockholding tax, as with all other excise duties; it is only when selling the plastic carrier bag that you need to pay the tax. This will be a law on 1 May 2020 and is based on the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. The proposal is based on the EU Packaging Directive. Already in 2016 we introduced in Swedish law a change based on the directive, namely that trade should inform customers about the environmental impact of plastic bags and take measures to reduce consumption. In practice, this has meant that several of the large chains are already charging for plastic carrier bags. Nowadays, they ask if someone wants a bag instead of simply packing in the goods and giving to the customer, as was often done in the past. According to the EU Packaging Directive, the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags in 2019 – i.e. last year – would be down to 90 per person per year. By 2025 it should be down to 40 thin plastic carrier bags per person per year. We cannot achieve that goal; we are lagging behind. From 2018, we have a reporting obligation to the European Commission on how it is possible to meet these objectives. What is clear is that further action is needed. The basis for all this is that plastic spreads in nature and harms animal life. This applies in particular to marine animals but also to terrestrial animals. Unfortunately, bags made from sugarcane, maize, and the like also spread microplastics in nature. I'm afraid there's no difference there. It takes up to 400 years for nature to break down these microplastics – if they ever break down; there are questions about it. The plastics are broken down into fragments that become microplastics. The animals are mistaken for food and swallow it. Whales were mentioned here earlier, and that is a tragic example. We had a whale off the coast of Norway that was sick and stranded. Turns out the whale had 30 plastic bags in his stomach but no food. This is what it looks like around our seas. Birds and mammals on land can entangle themselves in the bags, but fish and aquatic organisms also eat this. The worst of all is that it is not confined to animals and the oceans; it spreads into the food chain. It spreads from the fish, ends up in our food and ends up in the human body. These are toxic chemicals that have a negative effect on health and may even have fatal effects in the longer term. It is a threat to nature and animals as well as to man and our health. If this trend continues, by 2050 we will have more plastic in our seas than we have fish. The interesting thing is that the production of disposable plastic packaging, including plastic bags, did not start until the 50's to 60's. Since then, we have reached this enormous amount of plastic. One hardly dares to think about what the future means if this continues. The goal of the law is to reduce microplastics in nature. It is not tax revenue to the state that is the goal but a change in behaviour from the Swedish people: that you do not buy these plastic carrier bags every time you go shopping but have with you a bag that you use several times. But the goal is also a change in the behaviour of the trade. Even today, before the law is implemented, trade is preparing for this by offering paper bags to an increasing extent. A paper bag breaks down much faster than a plastic bag and does not at all produce the harmful environmental effects of a plastic bag. This is very positive. The goal is also for people to have a shopping bag. It doesn't have to be a fabric bag. There are many other materials. For example, it is perfectly possible to have a plastic bag for more durable use. Then of course there are a lot of other materials as well. If we get through a lifestyle change – ending this consumption and not buying new plastic bags every time you shop – it can actually mean savings for Swedish households. If hundreds of plastic carrier bags are consumed in a household, it can mean hundreds of dollars in expenses, or even thousands of dollars if it is very high consumption. So this is not supposed to be an additional cost. On the contrary, the objective is to reduce consumption and thus also to reduce costs. If you get a paper bag in your hand, it doesn't cost anything. There are supermarkets that already market a bag for more durable use. For example, I saw in a store that it costs 10 kroner to queue for one that you can reuse almost as many times. It's not a big cost. I also think that a lot of people already have something at home in the closet. They have a shopping bag, backpack, bag or a thicker bag. I think a lot of people already have things at home that they could use. It's just a matter of getting used to bringing it. It can actually be easier to carry home if you have a big bag instead of a thin bag that suddenly risks breaking if you pack it full. It can be an advantage in that way too. The hope is that this will be a v in n-v in n situation for nature, animals, health and also for the household economy. You're not supposed to pay each time without having something instead. We have something called the waste hierarchy. This means that we should primarily prevent, in the second place reuse, thirdly recycling and fourthly destroying. This is a preventive measure. That's the absolute best we can do. Measures have been implemented in other countries, such as Denmark, Ireland and England. In Denmark and Ireland there is a fee and in England a minimum price. We're not the only ones going this way. The majority of referrals are positive, although there are those who are negative. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that there will be less littering and microplastics in nature. When it comes to resource consumption, i.e. the climate perspective, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that there are no reliable studies that one material is better than the other. That's not why you want this. It is about littering in nature where plastic is definitely the big culprit and not the other materials. The Agency is also in favour of this in order for us to have a more non-toxic environment.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-195	Madam President, I would like We have already heard that 95% of all discharges of plastic into the oceans come from ten river systems located in Asia and Africa. We have heard that the Institute of Economic Affairs is judging the tax because it is not judged to reduce litter, but to use alternatives to plastic bags that are worse. We have also taken note of research and studies that show that it will lead to an increase in the consumption of bags made of fossil materials in Asia, for example, which we import on rolls. In other words, the environmental arguments against introducing the tax are overwhelming. We are talking about hundreds of millions of tonnes of increased CO2 emissions that the tax is estimated to entail because of the damage caused to the functioning of the economy and trade. My question to Hillevi Larsson is the basis on which she makes this decision. How many plastic bags are estimated to be released from Sweden in the oceans? How much of the total plastic emissions does Hillevi Larsson estimate that the Swedish households dump in the sea every year?
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-199	Madam President, I would like Thank God we're not the worst criminals in the world. We're pretty good at throwing the bags where they're supposed to be. But it's not perfect here either. The Keep Sweden Clean Foundation conducts annual surveys of how it looks, and among other things they investigate our beaches. They have found that on the Swedish beaches it was on average 6.6 plastic bags per 100 meters of beach a few years ago. That figure is now on average down to 3 bags per 100 meters of beach. They argue that one reason for the reduction may be the measures already taken by the government with regard to the obligation to provide information for trade. We can see that in the large chains that have already introduced a cost of a couple of crowns for a bag, sales of plastic bags have decreased by 30 to 40 percent. So there are fewer bags in the system. Keep Sweden Clean finds disposable packaging on the beach that has definitely not come from outside other countries. It is plastic carrier bags but also disposable cutlery, plastic plates and the like that you buy from the store. Our behavior is not perfect. Sometimes people bring with them things in nature that they eat, for example. If they don't find a trash can, they'll throw away some of the junk. Of course, this is not the case for everyone, but unfortunately some do. One can see that the more people living in a natural area, the more litter is left behind and, among other things, plastic. When it comes to garbage bags, they burn up and become district heating. They thus have a positive effect. You take care of them. The microplastics are available in all materials. It's not like they're worse off in fossils.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-205	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that plastic in nature is bad. It's kind of like getting a baseball bat in your head. It's very bad. It's not necessarily an argument for having a penalty tax on those who want to play baseball. You have to believe that the action you take somehow solves the problems you have. Hillevi Larsson can talk for a long time about that plastic is bad in nature. There's no one to question that. However, what more or less all experts and large organisations are questioning is whether the solution proposed by Hillevi Larsson to the problem is somehow effective or only helps to reduce the legitimacy of the tax system and to make Swedish households a little less well-off so that they have a little less money in their wallets. There, most people seem to agree that there will be no positive results. This will only lead to a worse situation for Swedish households. One wonders a little about what politics is doing. Hillevi Larsson said here himself that the garbage bags are not a problem, because we burn them to district heating. That is exactly what is happening with the bags that Hillevi Larsson wants to introduce a penalty tax on. It turns out that about 80 percent are used directly as garbage bags. Then some are used to trade again. They are incinerated to the district heating that is not a problem. Hillevi Larsson stands here and argues that we should reduce the use of Swedish technologically developed bags that we buy in the store. But it is no problem to use Asian rolls of garbage bags made directly from fossil materials. It's very strange, Hillevi Larsson, that you have this line. It just doesn't make sense. So I repeat the question to you. How many Swedish plastic bags we use to carry home food in from the store ends up in the oceans? That is the problem that Hillevi Larsson says he wants to solve. Then it is also reasonable that she can give the people an answer to how big that problem is.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-211	Madam President, I would like Keeping Sweden Rent's surveys shows that we have not reached the target. If there are still 3 plastic bags per 100 meters beach in Sweden, there is far too many. However, it is only the tip of an iceberg because 70 percent of all plastic is underwater and is not visible. It has been observed that not everything comes from outside. Besides, the only thing we can influence is what's coming from here. Why should we, as perhaps the only country in the European Union, not take action when one country after another takes decisive action in many cases? There is no logic behind this. Most of them are doing well. But there are some people who don't. In order to tackle this problem, we must take this action. It's not that everyone thinks it won't have an effect. There are 17 referral bodies who in their responses to the proposal believe that it is positive and will have an effect. Among other things, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that there will be less littering and, above all, less microplastics. It's not just about visual to the eye being boring with a crappy beach. It penetrates, destroys nature and wildlife and human health. All the steps we can take to reduce it are positive. When we can see a halving of the number of plastic bags only by the measure that the government has already taken with information obligations, it is obviously positive. When it comes to the material in garbage bags, there are no clear studies from a climate perspective that show that one material is better than the other. In addition, there are plastic bags such as garbage bags made from, for example, sugarcane and corn sold in commerce. It is possible that, in future, we will also take action in this area. But now this is precisely about the packaging directive, and it is about plastic carrier bags.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-217	Madam President, I would like I have a question about customs. We discussed customs earlier here. I'm thinking a little bit about how much the government's gonna do to get Customs to find all the plastic smuggling. If you smuggle in 500 plastic bags, it makes a profit of $1,500. It can make a better contribution than that of customs in the case of, for example, spirits, tobacco or why not Danish candy.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-220	Madam President, I would like Firstly, when it comes to the introduction of plastic carrier bags, you can bring in for your own use; it is fully permitted. It is allowed to bring in up to 40 bags per occasion. Secondly, it is only when the plastic bag is sold that you become taxable. This is the time to sell, above all, to keep an eye on. I believe that the trade in plastic carrier bags is quite transparent. In commerce, you choose how to collect the money. Some may choose to pay the tax themselves and not to put it on the price tag. But most will of course put it on the price tag, and that's the point of the whole thing: It will be less attractive to use plastic carrier bags. I don't think this is going to be a huge problem. We can see that various forms of taxation and taxation are introduced throughout the EU. So we in Sweden are not alone in this. We cannot focus our activities on the fact that someone could commit a criminal act. In that case, we could not have any rules at all in society. If we are dealing with criminal activities, we must, of course, follow it up as in other environmental crimes. But it cannot be the criminals who prevent us from trying to prevent even more microplastics coming out. We cannot allow criminals to veto them, but we are fighting them in the usual order with police and customs.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-225	Madam President, I would like I'm not saying you can't smuggle plastic bags in. I should also like to make another point. It's about fossil resources. How does the government see that instead of the plastic carrier bags we have, which consist of 80 percent recycled plastic, we insert plastic bags based on fossil raw material? I suppose it will be exactly the same amount as the one that is reduced from the trade that will be in the form of fossil bags. Also: Is there any study of how much plastic bags of that kind are spread in nature? I guess if you usually leave behind the plastic bag that you have with you, you will instead have a fossil bag with you when you go out into nature and coffee or whatever you intend to do. There's nothing stopping you from doing that. This means that there is actually the status quo when it comes to how much plastic there is in nature. This doesn't change the balance.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-229	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are advantages to recycled plastic. Not all plastic in the bags is recycled, but some are made of sugarcane, corn, and so on. It is not recycled from something that has previously been plastic. There are different variants. Unfortunately, there are drawbacks also to the recycled plastic. Some toxins have been found in this plastic that are not found in original plastic. Everything has its pros and cons. If you take a fossil bag with you when you have a picnic on the beach, for example, I think the risk is less that you throw it away. It will not be the mountain of bags that pours into Swedish homes as it becomes when you buy or get a new bag every time you go shopping. The amount will decrease. I also believe that there is less risk of leaving a more permanent bag on the beach. If the bag is made of a substantial material that does not break as easily as a bag and that does not get rubbed at the edge in the way the thin plastic bags become, I think the chances are that you bring it. I see the risk that there would be a lot of bags for sustainable use in nature as very small. If you have used a bag for permanent use 150 times and then throw it away or leave it behind, the effect of microplastics in nature is much less than 150 thin plastic carrier bags. In addition, there are other materials. Leaving a fabric bag or paper bag in nature does not have the same effect on microplastics. It is precisely plastic that is the problem, and unfortunately there is no difference between the recycled plastic, the one made from, for example, sugar cane and maize, and the one made of fossil material. Microplastics are found in all plastics, and it is the microplastics that destroy nature and health.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-235	Madam President, I would like The Swedish economy is by far the most climate efficient in the world. Sweden has proven that growth can take place in parallel with less environmental impact and that the environment and economic growth go hand in hand. Our GDP has grown by more than 60% since 1990, while greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by over 20%. Much has been done, but much more will have to be done. Madam President, I would like On the table today is the next step in the green tax shift. It is a tax exchange that, at the end of this term of office, will cover up to SEK 15 billion. It is a tax shift that reduces taxes on jobs, entrepreneurship and rural areas. Unlike taxes that distort the economy, green tax shifting corrects distortions and allows emitters to pay for the environmental damage they do. The centre party's main priority in this area is to significantly reduce the amount of plastic and dangerous microplastics in Swedish nature and watercourses. When you listen to what the debate sounds like about green tax exchange, it is easy to miss the point of the tax exchange itself. The aim is not to increase the overall tax burden but to change the structure of the tax system and increase its environmental relationship. Sweden has a high tax burden on a number of emissions but still a relatively low proportion of environmental taxes in relation to the total tax charge. Madam President, I would like 70% of marine litter in the Baltic Sea is plastic. There has been a misconception that the tax is being introduced to reduce plastic litter in the oceans globally. Although Sweden is better than the other countries, it is not that we do not have problems with littering. The primary thing is to reduce the littering of plastic in Swedish nature, in lakes, streams, rivers, rivers and of course sea. Madam President, I would like We must move away from society's dependence on disposable plastic and wear-and-slip mentality. The Center Party has pushed the issue of reducing plastic dependence at home and in the EU. In the EU, it has been agreed to ban plastic cutlery and straws, for example, throughout the Union by 2025. We now want to raise the ambition level and grab more disposable plastic items such as coffee mugs, lids and fast food packaging. Many of the major environmental benefits have come from policy and business changing and cooperating. Europe and the United States were at an early stage in setting emission standards for cars. The industry, specifically Volvo, responded by developing catalysts. Politics banned the very harmful CFCs. The industry developed alternative refrigerants. The same step now needs to be taken with the remaining one-off articles. If politics can put a stop date for disposable plastic in the remaining large litter articles, we are convinced that adequate alternatives will be developed – but it is also important that companies and innovators learn about this in good time. With this, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Taxation 13.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-244	Madam President, I would like With the Social Democrats, I wanted to try to discuss a rational, efficient tax system that collects legitimacy and secures public sector funding but also provides good conditions for those who want to operate in the country. The Center Party and Per Åsling have a different basic view of the tax system with more Swiss cheese, so to speak – they want to drill up a lot of different types of special rules and exceptions that are often to benefit a group that they think is particularly worth protecting right there and right then. That is why I understand that Pelle Åsling and the Center Party may not think it is so important that we now move forward with a tax increase that is ineffective, creates uncertainty and so on. The effective tax system is not usually well protected. However, the Center Party usually wants to keep the green flag high and really protect our planet. Must it not then, Pelle Åsling, be justified to believe that the measures we take solve the problems that we say we want to get to, so that over time it will be legitimate for us to implement measures that can occasionally be perceived as a bit tough and tight by households? Today, we are debating a proposal that clearly does not meet any quality requirements at all when it comes to objectives and measures being linked together, that objectives and means should interact. The Economic Institute clearly shows this in its review. They say that this will not lead to reduced littering or to reduced discharges of plastics into the sea. How much of the plastic you refer to in the Baltic Sea do you mean comes from Swedish consumer funds that you have bought when you have shopped at Ica, Konsum or at the trader? What is the percentage of the plastic emissions in the oceans that you refer to? Or is it that you simply pair an observation with a political action that you want to carry out?
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-248	Madam President, I would like I note that in his speech, Niklas Wykman said nothing about how the Moderates want to address the major problems we see around the world with the release of microplastics that harm our nature. I also note that Niklas Wykman refers several times to the Institute of Economic Development. I would like to point out, to continue on the subject of consultation bodies and authorities, that the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the Swedish National Courts Authority, the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the Swedish Research Council for the Environment, the Swedish Food Administration, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency either support or have nothing to object to the proposal that we have on our table. Plastic, also new plastic, continues to litter our surroundings. In the large seas, 80% of litter is estimated to be plastic litter of various kinds, in the Baltic Sea 70%. Emissions also continue in the Baltic Sea, preferably from countries with poor structure in their recycling and waste management. But when it comes to microplastics, some studies say – among other things, I would like to refer to the radio programme Klotet on 28 August – that the proportion from Sweden is almost as large as that from Russia. What do the Moderates want to do? You owe the answer, Niklas.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-252	Madam President, I would like I did not get an answer on how much of this 70% comes from Swedish plastic bags. Feel free to answer that in the next post, Pelle Åsling! I'll take another question. You pick up a new trail and talk about the microplastics. How much of the microplastics come from Swedish plastic bags that we bought in the grocery store? Or do you just take a number that you think fits and apply to an action you want to implement without there being any real connection? For example, how much of these microplastics come from car tires and not from plastic bags? Pelle Åsling can certainly answer how much of the microplastics come from plastic bags in Swedish trade. There's a big difference between what Pelle Åsling and I want to do. I want to export the Swedish model with a high-tech plastic industry that recycles, which comes up with new materials and which means that we do not become dependent on fossil fuels. I want to export the Swedish model with, for example, cogeneration plants that create local heat and make us burn up our waste and get electricity and energy from it. I want to export the Swedish success examples. Pelle Åsling is today putting a proposal on Parliament's table which instead imports the Asian problems of fossil-produced plastic bags on roll. These will relatively be 3 SEK cheaper with Pelle Åsling's proposal. I want to export Swedish success; Pelle Åsling wants to import foreign problems – that's the difference between the Center Party's and Moderate's environmental policies.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-257	Madam President, I would like The solution to the Swedish environmental problems cannot, of course, be to export the technology that we have and where we are forerunners. We do not solve the Swedish emissions problems with that. When it comes to sharing with us, exporting and contributing to the Swedish industry investing even more in developing valuable special technology, there is no difference in opinion. That is why we are so keen to do a tax shift, to make it easier for companies to work with innovative solutions and to make it easier for companies to grow and hire people and thus help strengthen the Swedish economy. It should by no means be the case that we do not push in different ways to stop the use of plastics, and thus also the spread of microplastics, which contribute to the deterioration of the climate and our natural values even more. We must have the courage to start by sweeping our own doors and making sure that we do what we can. I want to be able to see my children and grandchildren in the vision say: We did what we could to stop the environmental impact.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-260	Madam President, I would like This case concerns taxes on plastic bags. We believe that the proposal is moving in the right direction, and we will therefore follow the line of the committee. If, on the other hand, we want to make a real difference, we should do as we propose in our specific opinion and introduce a total ban. It's time we stopped dwindling with the litter.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-262	Madam President, I would like It was a brief and pitiful speech here just now. I would like to start with what Mr Wykman said at the outset. This is a question of the tax system that we have in Sweden and what tax system we want to see in our country. According to the tradition of taxes that have burdened Sweden, it is high tax on labour and entrepreneurship. Some of us in here have spent a number of years in the political youth associations, and then really in debate after debate have been told that we have high taxes on alcohol so that we do not drink too much and high taxes on tobacco so that we do not use tobacco products too much – but do we have a high tax on work so that we do not work too much? These cheap points that can be picked rhetorically, the Christian Democrats are trying to transform into practical politics. Now that we are talking about the need for a shift away from taxing work and entrepreneurship and taxing consumption, in our budget motion we are putting forward major tax cuts which actually reduce taxes on 5.2 million employees, reduce taxes on 2.2 million pensioners and, in addition, reduce taxes on those who have benefit or insurance income – but they get half as much tax cuts as those who have a job, because we want to reward precisely work. It should not be a high tax on labour that makes you refrain from working. This tax reduction that you actually get if you are a pensioner or employee or have an insurance or benefit income is generous and general. The excise duty that we are discussing here today is an optional tax that you can opt out of. It is a tax that reaches those who buy plastic bags, and the tax is placed on those who produce or import plastic bags. Should we say something about what we are now talking about in terms of what we want to achieve with it? If we, as a Christian Democrat Party, were part of the government base or even to sit at the table of power in Rosenbad, we would not have designed taxes in this way, but we would have continued to prioritise tax cuts as we do in our own budget motion. Do we recognise that it is a problem with precisely plastic and microplastics in the oceans and with the spread that we unfortunately see around the world? Yes, we certainly do. We have stated in our own, Christian Democratic environmental policy programme that we need to reduce the unnecessary use of plastics in disposable products, such as plastic bags. That's what we'll write there. We also write that economic instruments or other restrictions should be introduced to reduce the use of conventional plastic bags in grocery and specialist stores, thereby reducing the spread of plastics in the environment. I think you should take the situation seriously, and I also think that you should realise what the difference is when you get such a tax cut as I have talked about here before. This is equivalent to SEK 2,500 per year for an average wage earner. One pensioner receives SEK 1,200 more per year in his wallet. It is a tax cut that I am happy to talk about here and today.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-269	Madam President, I would like Plastic is a material that is actually completely irreplaceable in many parts of society. It is a good material: strong, durable and flexible. It exists in many forms. We will continue to use plastic for a very long time to come. Plastic also poses some problems. We have heard here in the debate today, which I cannot help but agree with, that in many cases plastic poses a danger to animals and nature if it comes out in the wrong way or is handled in the wrong way. The entry of liberals into the negotiations under the January agreement on this tax has been to ensure that we get a tax in place that actually leads to a more resource-efficient and circular economy. I believe that, now that we are introducing this tax and then going back and evaluating it to strengthen up where it does not work and to maintain what might work – as with all political reforms – we will see that we are going to make even more of the policy of the Liberals. We would, for example, like to see a tax of this kind becoming more differentiated so that virgin plastic, that is, plastic that is new and involves taking up new oil and not recycling plastic to make plastic bags, for example, gets a tougher tax than plastic that is recycled. We need financial incentives to increase recycling. We would have liked to have seen a differentiation that is about encouraging new technologies, new types of plastics and more degradability. But you don't get everything in a negotiation with others. I believe that we will come back, as with other policies, and evaluate this and ensure that we get even more of the circular economy and resource efficiency. We must reduce litter in nature while ensuring that we create the conditions for industry to take important steps forward. Since plastic is so important and we also want to strengthen the circular economy, not only can we look at taxes, but we also need to get a plastic recycling refinery in place so that we can recycle even more plastic. We have been in favour of this from the Liberal side. When we burn plastic to recover energy, as has been described earlier in the debate, we must be better at capturing the carbon dioxide that is formed when you burn something and then store it. A plastic recycling refinery is one of those things that we will have to come back with proposals on as we need to get instruments and a system in place that means that we can capture more carbon dioxide and recycle more plastic. Madam President, I would like There has been a slight error in the debate in this House today, which I would like to draw attention to. It has been claimed – I think it was from the Swedish Democrats – that this tax on plastic carrier bags would be a way of financing the military tax. That's wrong. It is clear in the January Agreement, and it is clear in the negotiations between the January Contracting Parties, that the abolition of the defence tax at the turn of the year is outside the green tax exchange. So that and the tax on plastic carrier bags have nothing to do with each other. It is not financed by taxes on plastic carrier bags or by taxes on anything else. The birth tax is financed by people working more and by people going to invest more, make more effort and actually consume more, which will benefit growth and make the economy grow. It is outside the green tax shift. So the green tax shift is not to be confused with the military tax. There will be other increases, but there will also be other tax cuts to finance the billions defined in the Green Tax Exchange part of the January Agreement. I can calm the concerns of the Swedish Democrats and others who listen. The abolition of the birth tax is financing itself. What is the green tax shift does not include the military tax. We will have to continue to increase taxes on things that are bad for the environment and lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship even more.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-278	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to listen to the Moderates, who also mourn the ongoing mass extinction, where we humans are the driving force. I can also welcome the Moderates' praise for the effective CO2 tax and bear it in mind in the future. Niklas Wykman asks a little sceptically in his speech whether it is ideologically driven that we have given the tax this form. I am ideologically convinced, and so am I. That is why I have chosen to be a politician. But the tax is a consequence of our being in the European Union. There is a directive that says that we should reduce the use of disposable plastic bags to 40 bags per person per year. That is why we in Sweden have taken these political decisions. In 2017, Sweden exported 30,000 tonnes of plastic to countries outside Europe to take care of it. We didn't have the capacity to take care of it ourselves. It is also something worth knowing about. I broadly agree with the Centre Party's speech, but I still have to make a correction. Economic growth does not go hand in hand with environmental work. It is a widespread myth that can also be called the environmental cuznets curve. But it is not true, and there is no empirical evidence of absolute decoupling. We must carry this with us every day. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating taxes on plastic bags, and it is a tax that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats have reserved for. I agree, to some extent, that the debate is ridiculous. It's silly because the resistance is so huge. After all, the tax is the result of an EU directive. I also wonder what the Moderates themselves have suggestions for achieving this goal. Or is it worth going out of the EU because we do not want plastic duty? It is likely that the tax will result in people using plastic bags more times or choosing more environmentally friendly fabric carrier bags, which will reduce resource consumption, littering and the problems of microplastics, which are currently large. But above all, it is important that we change our linear thinking, that resources should only be used once. In many cases it is possible to switch plastic to fabric. Often it works even better. The resistance of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats to the tax is partly justified by the fact that it is expected to be so effective in controlling behaviour so that more people opt out of plastic carrier bags. This is considered to be a problem for state funding. Madam President, I would like The purpose of the tax is not to maximize the public purse. The purpose of the tax is to redirect our habits so that we do not waste the resources of the earth. To those committee colleagues who are concerned that we will not have any funding once we have steered this behaviour, I can say, to satisfy their concerns, that we in the Green Party have very many proposals for various environmental taxes. One moment the opponents are worried about the effectiveness of the tax; the other moment they claim that it will have no effect. I understand it's hard to keep up with. Madam President, I would like One argument is that littering with plastic bags is only a global problem and therefore nothing for little Sweden to care about. With that argument there are no essential problems, because we should only compare with the problems of the whole world. We must stop thinking so cynically, especially with regard to the environment. We in Sweden must take responsibility. According to Håg Sverige Rent, plastic bags are on the top-ten list of the types of junk that occur most on Swedish beaches. So we have a lot to do at home, but it is clear that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats simply do not want to. Madam President, I would like Today we consume 1 billion thin fruit bags and 67 million plastic carrier bags a year. The goal of a maximum of 40 carrier bags per person per year will be reached by 31 December 2025, and the government's assessment is that Sweden without further control will not reach the goal. This is an assessment shared by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Sweden's actions also send signals to other countries that we take the problem of plastic litter very seriously. Over 90 countries have banned plastic bags, and I appreciate the speech by the Left Party in the debate. It was short, concise and clear. It is clear that policy instruments are needed to reach the target of 40 plastic bags per person per year by 2025. A tax on plastic carrier bags is a step towards achieving this goal. Another argument is that the tax would be unfair to renewable bags. But the purpose of the tax is to reduce litter and counteract the spread of microplastics in nature. From that perspective, plastic bags made of sugar cane are as bad as plastic bags made of fossil-based plastic. So no difference is made.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-294	Madam President, I would like Since the last time we had a debate on student aid – it was just before Christmas – there has been a big change in my life: I am no longer bigamist. I've ended my relationship with CSN. I had two loans — one was 30 years old, and the other was 25 years old. Now I only have the second loan left. It feels very good. Thanks to the loan, I have been able to study at college and university. I've been very pleased with that. It is also something that many people have the opportunity to do. However, we need to ensure that it is also adapted to the current form of work in society and to the current rules of study. So we need to change the study aid system. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. In the Moderate Committee exercise, we suggest that the study funding system be investigated so that it is both more flexible and fairer. It is also a matter of rules on the need to take part in teaching in order to be able to receive student funding or student support. It is important to take part in the training in order to be able to absorb it. We want to have this investigated. After this debate, I will have a seminar on skills transfer in the automotive industry. There are 40 000 people who will need to change their skills. In the automotive industry we are talking about autonomous cars, electrification and AI. It is therefore 40 000 people who must have help with student aid or be helped to manage it through companies or the public sector. We see many other activities where there is a similar situation. Many will have to study. Central Student Support Board, CSN, came out with a report yesterday. It says that the proportion of students over 40 years of age is increasing. In 2014, it was about 100,000 who were over 40 years old and studied at the university. Now it's up to 128,000. Most people study college, komvux, vocational school or folk high school. Most people study part - time, but about 36,000 have study funds. They have been asked what it would be like if they had not had help with student aid. Two thirds say that they would not have been able to read if they had not been able to get help with student aid. Most over 40 students are women, 71 percent. Most women read quite continuously or actually out of interest, but most men say that they read to avoid becoming unemployed. It is therefore important that we ensure that there are conversion packages. Many people in many activities will have to study, and we must ensure that it works for them. From the Moderates we propose a conversion package, to which the S-led government has unfortunately said no. I know that this is being looked at, and now I hope that our views will be taken into account, so that it will be improved, so that we can study even when we are older. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are investing 159 million in a conversion package. There are four changes that we want to introduce. First of all, we want to increase the amount of the allowance to SEK 200 000 per calendar year to strengthen the possibility of working at the same time as studying. We also want more extra weeks of study for those who are 40 years of age. We want to increase the number from 40 weeks to 60 weeks. There's a pretty big difference. We want the age limit, which is now 56 years old, to be raised to 60 years. That's important, too. You read later and it is higher retirement age, so you will read much longer in the future. Finally, we want additional loans for those over 25 years of age who have children to be raised from SEK 3 800 to SEK 5 000 per month. This is a large conversion package, which we invest SEK 159 million in. We see that it is rather urgent. Many businesses say that skills need to be renewed within the next five years in order for them to retain the workforce that exists, be able to follow society and be able to follow developments around the world. It is about Sweden being competitive.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-306	Madam President, I would like For a long time, hundreds of thousands of employees — perhaps more than that — have worked 25 or 30 years for the same employer and received the glorious gold bell or crystal vase as the ultimate proof of long and faithful service. The question is how long until these faithful servants will exist. How many watches and crystal vases will be distributed in the future? Yes, if progress continues at its present rate, every other person will have changed their place of work within a five - year period. We'll change jobs like never before. And that's not enough. For every day we live, our average life expectancy increases by four hours. And as life expectancy increases, the pension system creaks into the joints, forcing an increase in the retirement age. As life expectancy increases and pension ages increase, education and the ability to develop skills during life play an extremely important role for both individuals and society at large. This also requires more flexible student support. In addition, old jobs disappear and are replaced by new ones that often require more knowledge and perhaps completely different experiences than before. In recent years, Madam President, companies have become increasingly difficult to recruit. Almost one in four recruitments fails due to a lack of skills. Madam President, I would like I would first like to clarify another issue in this report, and I do so because false claims are circulating. Social Democrats Elin Lundgren and Patrik Lundqvist have exercised about the possibility of postponing the repayment of CSN loans for conscripts while they are doing their basic education. According to CSN's Legal Department, the answer is that a borrower who completes an initial training course for more than 60 days under the Total Defence Obligation Act or participates in training for reserve or professional officers has the right, upon application, to avoid paying off on his annuity loan. The annual amount will then be reduced completely during the training period. There is therefore already a possibility of a postponement today. Having said that, Madam President, my continued focus will therefore be on a more generous study system linked to lifelong learning. For us Social Democrats, the fight for everyone's right to good education is an important part of equality policy. We want to tear down knowledge barriers and free people's powers so that they can realize their dreams, not only once, but through the whole journey of life. We are proud that during the last parliamentary term we gave everyone the right to komvux and expanded the knowledge boost, which gave thousands of young and adults a chance for education and transition. We need to be able to grow and switch throughout our lives. For this to be possible, the study funding system is required to be so generous that people with different financial conditions can educate themselves. We must never forget that student support is an important part of education policy, and it should act as recruitment for both women and men and equalisation between individuals and groups in the population, thus contributing to greater social justice. Our S-led government has introduced a number of improvements in this area: The grant part of the study aid has been increased by SEK 300 per month. Recruiting start-up support for the unemployed with high educational needs has been introduced. The study grant for academics studying to teachers has increased. A CSN loan for B driving licences has been introduced for unemployed people who fulfil certain conditions. Now, Madam President, it is time to take the next important step and further develop the study aid system. When we live longer and hopefully stay longer in a healthier working life, we will be given the opportunity to study with student support at a higher age than today. That is the starting point for the government parties and our cooperation parties, the Center Party and the Liberals. Last year, an investigator was assigned to assist the Ministry of Education to develop proposals for measures, and the investigation is now complete. Since the memorandum is on the table, it would be unwise for me here and now to market some precise promises, but I would like to take this opportunity to briefly mention some of the interesting changes highlighted in the investigation. Here, Madam President, it is proposed that the age limit for entitlement to study funding should be increased from the current 56 years to 60 years and that the reduction in the right to borrow should begin at the age of 51 and end at 60. CSN now sees an increasing number of older people using study funds and that more elderly people are also taking additional loans, and this indicates that student support is more widely used for transition to the labour market. Furthermore, the investigator proposes that, as early as next year, people over 40 years of age should be given the opportunity to study for a longer period than the current weekly limits if there are either labour market reasons or other specific reasons for doing so. Today, it is difficult for students who have already spent their study week to have additional weeks to change or retrain. No new part-time level of study funding below a study rate of 50 per cent is proposed, explaining that the need and recruitment are considered to be very uncertain. Other considerations highlighted in the memo include increases in the amount of study grants, higher free amounts and exemptions from certain income testing. Increased study funding is not considered necessary given that there is already a higher grant level and an additional loan. A higher amount of release is also not needed, says the investigator, because it is already well taken up and it would risk reducing the student's performance if it were to be further increased. The free amount for full-time studies is currently more than 90 000 SEK per semester. The exclusion of income from the income test is also not considered appropriate. The right to study funding should be determined on the basis of an objective assessment of the students' income in relation to the amount of the grant, says Investigator Carl-Carl-Johan Stolt. Madam President, I would like Now we are excited to look forward to the referral and the continued process. Lifelong learning, a longer working life and a higher retirement age also require good student support for people above the age. One thing is certain: the future will be less and less about gold bells, crystal vases and lifelong employment. Instead, it will increasingly be about adaptability, flexibility and lifelong learning. I support the committee's proposal.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-332	Madam President, I would like I must begin by congratulating Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström on breaking up with CSN and having paid back the study funds. I myself look forward every month to having to pay back quite a few thousand pieces to CSN. After all, it feels pretty nice to be able to do it, even if it is boring at the moment of payment. In Sweden we have a broad and generous education system and a broad and generous study funding system. No one should have to give up studies because they cannot afford them. Everyone should have a real opportunity to study at higher education institutions, universities or universities of applied sciences, but also at municipal, folk high schools and at upper secondary level for those who need it. It is important that the study aid system is easy to understand. It should be equal but also flexible. Equivalence is important. We should not use the study funding system to target students towards different educations. Flexibility is important for meeting students with different needs. This applies to both the payment and the refund. Students with children can, for example, receive supplementary benefits, and if you have special reasons, you can receive the refund in whole or in part deferred for a certain period of time. It is also important not to place students in unnecessarily high debt situations. The responsible authority CSN has an important task to follow the students' financial situation. The authority must also follow the social situation of the students. Now CSN receives an additional assignment in the regulation letter to focus on the students' mental health from the end of the year, in this task. We know that mental illness today is unreasonably high among students. This mission comes at the same time as the government has launched an investigation into the equivalence of student health at the various universities. The government prioritises students' health, especially mental health, and that is very good. CSN is also tasked with disseminating knowledge about student support in order to reach groups that would otherwise not have chosen to study. We need training throughout the country, and we need to work towards a broader recruitment – if nothing else to cope with the supply of skills for the future throughout the country. Of course, it is also a question of having a democratic education system. Madam President, I would like Working alongside full-time studies can be a way of overcoming income or perhaps starting early savings. That's good. This also means that students have an early connection to the labour market. But we also know through investigations, and I see it myself as a university teacher, that work alongside studies often risks distracting students from the main task, i.e. studies. This reduces the results and the flow of education and training, and may also reduce quality. We should not, therefore, remove the free amount limit, as suggested in any exercise. On the contrary, there is reason to work on developing the amount of the exemption. In the 2018 study grant survey – Study funding for effective studies – there is an interesting proposal for an age-differentiated free amount, which aims to speed up the study pace with lower free amounts for younger students and enable further training and conversion with higher free amounts for older students. There will therefore be a balance between increasing throughput on the one hand and promoting working life contacts and higher-age studies on the other. In this way, we are also promoting lifelong learning, which is so important. The government has more measures to promote important lifelong learning, and I will mention two. Firstly, the government has recently examined a proposal to increase the age of study aid. Together with the Center Party and the Liberals, we propose a general increase of four years. The right to study funding is increased from 56 to 60 years, and the reduction in the loan part and the refund follow with the corresponding age limits. Secondly, in the 2020 budget, we have decided on special support for people in the middle of working life to improve their education. It is a support that meets the demands of a rapidly changing labour market where digitalisation, automation, machine learning and artificial intelligence, for example, come in. The need for further training for new or more qualified tasks will clearly increase in the labour market. We call this special student grant development time. The details are currently being prepared in the responsible department, but the support is intended to be directed to those who have been on the labour market for many years, perhaps with an education that has become obsolete after a number of years. It is also aimed at those who do not see that they would have an economic opportunity to study or develop skills in the middle of their working life with CSN support. A good example of this kind of training for people in the middle of working life is the university of applied sciences. The University of Applied Sciences has a very good track record from former students and students, which very much goes on to a new employer and more qualified tasks. They leave a job that can become a new job for someone else and fill a place in a deficiency profession. According to the University of Applied Sciences, students raise their salary by an average of around SEK 10,000 a month after such a course. However, according to the University of Applied Sciences, there are also problems, including the fact that many people do not consider themselves financially able to leave work for studies with regular study funds. That's why development time is so suitable for this group and university of applied sciences. Now, unfortunately, the united opposition – the Left Party together with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – has put forward a proposal in the Finance Committee that knocks away the bones of these people. I have to say that I find it completely incomprehensible. I regret that, and I hope that we will find a solution so that the budget decision remains and that the development time can start as planned as early as autumn so that those who need this training can get it. Madam President, I would like The Green Party stands up for lifelong learning and the ability to adapt continuously to changes in the labour market. In doing so, I would like to call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-350	Madam President, I would like In this report, we will deal with a large number of motions from the general exercise time concerning, among other things, digitisation, broadband roll-out, 5G networks and postal and package management. It is in many areas where there are several common ambitions and objectives. Few of us here in Parliament are opposed to broadband and fibre expansion throughout the country. This also applies to the question that Sweden should embrace the latest technology and digitalisation in order to make Sweden more competitive and successful and that we should have a functioning postal service that can provide postal services for all the country's residents living in both urban and rural areas. The debate today will instead be about the path to achieving the objectives and the high ambitions that we all have in these different areas. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we welcome the expansion of broadband that has taken place over the years, but also see that the expansion has now begun to slow down and sometimes stop completely as a result of, among other things, increased costs and a more uncertain economic situation. In particular, it is the development of sparsely populated areas that is lagging behind. Unfortunately, the difference between the city and the country is too much of a reminder. Madam President, I would like Broadband investments around the country decreased by 11 per cent in 2018, according to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. In October 2019, the same Board of Directors reported that the Government's target for broadband, i.e. that by 2020 95 per cent of households and businesses should have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second, will not be achieved. Instead, the result is that between 85 and 88% of all households and businesses will achieve this objective. True, it may seem to be a high figure. Should we perhaps be satisfied with that? I don't think so. At the same time as Sweden misses the target for 2020 by about 10%, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency makes the assessment that there is a risk that the targets set for 2025 will not be achieved either. It is most difficult, as has been said, for non-urban residents, where the target is not close to 95%. Instead, the expansion will land at about 42%, which is particularly bad. We must act to ensure that the whole country has the opportunity for broadband expansion. Madam President, I would like Assessors such as the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and the Swedish City Network Association estimate the cost of a complete roll-out of broadband to approximately SEK 20 billion. This is a considerable sum which places great demands on the proper use of tax resources. However, one way of reducing the costs of deployment is to introduce regulatory simplifications and to simplify licensing processes. For example, it may be to give municipalities the right to deviate from the so-called localisation principle for the development of urban networks. This principle in the Municipal Act means that municipal networks, which are often owned by municipalities, are limited to operating within their own municipality. It often creates problems. In a geographically remote municipality, this is a concern because a municipality's geographical area is not always rational for the delimitation of a network. If the municipalities can help each other, it would be better. Unfortunately, the government has not done anything about this disadvantaging principle; instead, it has been argued that normal municipal contractual cooperation applies. This has been seriously questioned by the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, who, two months ago in a letter to the Government, stated that they wanted a change. A legislative change must be made to this principle in order to reduce costs, to make investments more efficient and to allow broadband roll-out to continue. As regards the licensing processes for rights of way and further expansion, Trafikverket is still a bottleneck in the process. Some improvement has taken place in 2018, but according to information from contractors during visits to the Transport Committee in November 2019, much of the problems remain. The processes must be simplified and speeded up. In order for us to achieve the objectives and develop broadband in rural areas too, we must all help each other with support, simple legislation and fast licensing processes. This requires both public and private actors to act properly and promptly. We agree on the objective, but the road to it cannot be a difficult forest path, but should instead be like a well-functioning motorway. Madam President, I would like Broadband expansion is a prerequisite for the digitalisation of our society, and the technology development that is constantly taking place should be both the inhabitants and the entire Swedish Government for its benefit. When technology rushes forward and we talk about the next generation of 5G networks, we must not lose focus on the fact that the whole of Sweden will live and thus also connect. Frequency harmonisation in the 5G deployment together with our neighbours and with the rest of Europe is the right way forward. The Moderates welcome the fact that Sweden has signed a letter of intent with the other Nordic countries to be the first interconnected 5G region in the world. Now, do not let the work stop with this declaration of intent, but move from words to deeds! Sweden must continue to be a driving force in this development. We from the Moderates will closely follow the initiatives taken by the government to move this development forward. Finally, Madam President, I would also like to raise the very topical issue of postal services throughout the country. The proportion of letters sent in Sweden has fallen sharply over the years, and this causes great concern for the company that has undertaken the so-called community mission to distribute mail throughout the country, namely Postnord. Many other postal distributors exist, but the difference between these and Postnord is that they do not have the community mission. In larger cities, postal distribution is more economically beneficial, while rural and sparsely populated distribution and collection are costly. If you focus on the larger cities, there is an economic margin. If you have a responsibility for the whole country, this margin is in danger of dwindling. In order to compensate for the economic loss, Postnord's social mission has changed. Two-day distribution has been allowed, and the postage has been raised. Nevertheless, the system is limping with Postnord. A review of the entire postal system must be carried out. During the discussion in committee of this report, from December to January, the government announced its intention to set up a postal law investigation in spring 2020. It's wise, and we Moderates welcome the investigation. This study should take into account, among other things, the competitive situation, of course beyond everything else, in the strongly increasing package management. Today, as part of its community mission, Postnord is exempt from VAT for packages up to 20 kilos. Not all other parcel distributors have this VAT exemption, which risks distorting competition in favour of Postnord – a company that currently has 60% of the entire parcel market. Although this 60% includes all packages, including those over 20 kilos, this particular position should be taken into account in the forthcoming investigation. Madam President, I would like Digitalisation and technology development come to us regardless of what we may think of these changes. In order for Sweden to continue to be a successful country, we need to affirm development and make the necessary changes. Broadband expansion, the creation of 5G and the right use of digital infrastructure are important parts of the society of the future. Sweden should be the driving force for development and security in a changing time. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderates, but in order not to take up too much of the time of this House, I would ask for only reservation 4.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-369	Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but in order to save time at the vote, we ask for the approval of only reservation 11. In the run-up to this debate, I sought information on the Internet about the post office, when the post office started and how progress has been made. Once I was knocking on the keys, I began to think about how easy it is to absorb information – and how difficult it was in the past. If you had a wise relative, you might call and ask. But if you didn't, you had to go down to the local library. If the library didn't have the information, they had to go to the city library. The information that today takes me a few seconds to find could sooner take half a day, up to a whole day, to obtain. But as I said, Madam President, after a quick search on the Internet, I found out when the mail started, namely already in 1636. It was a little interesting, and I had no knowledge of that before. Digitalisation will increase, and it will facilitate everyday life. The problems with digitalisation arise when you have discussions at home with the children. You can no longer drift on the truth and claim that you are more knowledgeable than the children when they can quickly look up the information in their mobile phones. Joke aside! Society will see an increase in digitalisation that facilitates a lot in everyday life, from transport to who knows what. Madam President, I would like Is everything a dance of roses with the momentum of digitalisation? It requires that, if you are not to lag behind, you follow developments. Those who do not follow developments are in danger of getting much harder. The challenge is to be active. We see, Madam President, that shops that do not follow the path of digitalisation are in danger of going bankrupt because much of the purchases are made online. Many find it more convenient to shop at the kitchen table than to be cornered in the city's shops. We also see a decrease in the number of letters. Postnord becomes more difficult to cope with profitability if you do not act and make changes. Keep up with the digital development, and everything will work out! Is it that simple? No, Madam President. We do not have the same conditions to follow the digital development everywhere in Sweden, as we do not have the infrastructure in place everywhere. The government has great ambitions with the broadband strategy, and there is nothing to say about the ambitions. It is important that all of Sweden has access to digital infrastructure so that we do not create digital exclusion. The expansion of broadband fibre does not go at the pace desired, which means that many are dependent on the old telecommunications network and the copper wire. In order not to make it even more difficult for those who do not have broadband fibre, the copper wire should not be dismantled until there is an adequate alternative in place. Digitalization is a major challenge with great opportunities. In order to remove certain obstacles, digitalisation should be coordinated – and then at state level – and dialogue should be conducted to gather knowledge and will in all sectors of society for successful digitisation. A government digital coordinator should make it easier to identify obstacles that need to be removed, not least in welfare. Often it is about creating security for change and discovering the possibilities of the new technology. When we talk about access to the Internet, it's nice to discuss trains. More people travel by train today than before. It paints how well you can work while traveling. But what is the reality? How much can you work on the trains? If you don't need the internet, it's no problem, but internet connection and mobile coverage are sometimes non-existent. Mobile operators have had a long time to develop and improve coverage, but it is not uncommon for calls to be broken during the journey or for there to be no Internet coverage.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-382	Madam President, I would like It is with pleasure that I can tell you that we have committed citizens of society. I believe that most politicians, especially us in here, have received e-mails or physical letters about 5G. Many feel a great deal of anxiety. There are reports that technology is lethal and other reports that say it is not dangerous. As 5G technology will be needed to transmit amounts of information, not least to self-driving vehicles, it is important that we constantly monitor how the 5G radiation affects humans and animals. But it is also important that we dare to apply technology development. Madam President, I would like I was going to talk a lot more about postal issues, but yesterday, when we in the Transport Committee and the Industry Committee had a meeting with the management of Postnord and the ministers concerned, we were told that there was an investigation about the post. I await the investigation and assume that you will do your utmost to ensure that the postal delivery is of good quality throughout the country.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-384	Madam President, I would like Firstly, on behalf of the Center Party, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 6. Imagine yourself lying in the hammock on a hot summer day, working in the forest and land, or sitting in a restaurant in the big city or in the countryside. No matter where you are, you want good broadband connectivity and mobile coverage. Digitalisation brings people closer together, and the digital infrastructure is essential for us to live and operate throughout the country. Digitalisation has only just begun, and access to modern technology and infrastructure is crucial for Sweden's rural areas. In the January agreement, the Center Party, together with the Liberals and government parties, has negotiated SEK 650 million for broadband deployment for the period 2020 – 2022. This sum will probably not be enough to connect the whole of Sweden. That is why we need to engage in more discussions on how more money can be made for broadband deployment, but also, of course, what more we can do to facilitate the roll-out of broadband, especially in rural areas. This, for example, through shorter processing times at Trafikverket and by reviewing the localisation principle so that municipal urban networks can expand broadband across municipal boundaries. In these talks, the Center Party will be active and moving forward. The proposal for new broadband support that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has just submitted to the government, we from the Center Party will be involved in taking responsibility for as many people as possible and for all actors – whether they are fibre associations, urban networks or the market – to be able to take part in the support. The current support for broadband rollout came in 2014 during the reign of the Alliance with centre party Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt as Minister of IT. The support has been important for broadband deployment in the country. The expansion has come a long way in many places. But in many other places you are not finished, and there is still much to be done. Municipal city networks, fibre associations and the market themselves have meant a lot for the expansion throughout the country. However, the government needs to tell market players that if we are to reach the set broadband targets, you cannot leave fibre objects around the country half-ready or withdraw because you think it is too expensive to build. This has happened in the municipalities of Lerum and Bollebygd in Västra Götaland, where operators for the market have promised to build fibre but now have chosen to withdraw because they think it is too expensive to build. This is totally unacceptable and shows poor judgment on the part of market players. In order for all people in Sweden to be able to be connected and take advantage of the potential of digitalisation, it is important, in the opinion of the Center Party, that a digital right of access be introduced that guarantees a stable connection. Similarly, it is important that more frequency space is released for increased mobile coverage and better mobile telephony with surfing throughout the country. The bottom line is that broadband expansion has been important and that we should be proud of it and of the local initiatives taken around the country. At the same time, however, we need to look at the challenges that exist and that come to deliver constructive solutions. Within a short time, 5G licences will be auctioned and thereafter the network will be expanded. The Center Party wants the expansion not to necessarily start from the environments that currently have secure and fast connectivity, but also to take into account rural needs for faster connectivity. It may be a case of favouring rural industries such as sawmills, mining and, above all, future agriculture. The Center Party would like to underline that this is in line with the government's decision that all decisions should be rural proof. Madam President, I would like The ongoing dismantling of the old copper telephone network affects the availability of telephony and broadband services offered so far through ADSL technology and connection through the telephone jack. This change affects the rural population in particular because alternatives to the fixed copper connection, such as high-quality fibre or mobile telephony, have not been installed or have unfortunately been too expensive in some places. In order to prevent people from being left without functioning communications, the Center Party considers that the person responsible for providing the copper network should not be allowed to phase it out before a compensation is in place at a reasonable cost. Madam President, I would like Yesterday the Transport Committee and the Industry Committee had a joint meeting on issues relating to the post office and Postnord. There has also been a great deal about this in the media lately. That is why I would like to mention a little about mail and packages. The number of parcels has steadily increased over the last ten years, and today the parcel market is characterised by effective competition between different operators. The Center Party considers it important that this competition is maintained throughout the country. Competition in the postal and parcel services market is tough. In metropolitan areas, new players are establishing themselves, and as the needs arise, complementary services within the e-commerce chain are emerging. On the other hand, in the more sparsely populated parts of the country there is unfortunately a risk that supply will deteriorate, and it is therefore important that logistics companies are given the right conditions for developing and providing complementary services. The Center Party therefore also wants to highlight the importance of a functioning postal and parcel market, which promotes innovation and climate-smart solutions. The Government Anders Ygeman has announced that the Government will set up a postal investigation that we from the Center Party naturally welcome and where we want to be involved in taking responsibility and bringing our thoughts and ideas forward. In 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a decision obliging Sweden to stop charging VAT on postal services provided by Postnord in the framework of the universal postal service. In Sweden, a broad definition of this service is applied, which includes not only letters but also packages of up to 20 kg. The VAT exemption for competitive services has given rise to concerns among operators as it could distort competition if Postnord were given the opportunity to offer customers significantly lower prices and thus crowd out competition in e-commerce. Although this has not happened, the Center Party believes that there is a threat affecting the willingness of other actors to invest in distribution networks because conditions can change rapidly. The Center Party believes that for this reason it is important that the competitive situation in parcel distribution is rapidly clarified in order to promote the continued functioning of competition and the development of parcel services throughout Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party would also stress the importance of giving all postal operators access to postal infrastructure, including postal codes, in order to promote market efficiency. This should also apply to businesses in e-commerce and digital services. This measure could, according to the Center Party, facilitate competition and the establishment of new activities throughout the country. Another issue related to the postal and package perspective was highlighted in the state investigator Kristina Jonäng's interim report As a letter in the post office, she reproduces the postal industry's perspective on the co-distribution of mail, packages and newspapers. It is clear that market-oriented operators, such as distributors, see a need to increase their stockings in other ways when both newspaper and letter mail are steadily decreasing. At the same time, as we have talked about before, a reverse trend can be seen in the parcel market as a result of the growing e-commerce. Co-distributing mail, packages and newspapers would, according to the Center Party's assessment, increase both time and cost efficiency and have a positive environmental impact as fewer transports would be needed. Such co-distribution should therefore be possible. It is true that newspapers and letters today have different times for delivery to customers. However, according to the proposal of the Center Party, a joint distribution could take place according to the timetable of the current newspaper distributors. The Center Party believes that the proposal could also help to maintain a better level of accessibility and service throughout the country, especially in rural areas.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-404	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10. The state plans to expand a 5G network in Sweden. This is not just a development of the 4G network, but also a system that allows for the development of completely new services and strengthened communication conditions in rural areas, for example. The extension, if done correctly, has the potential to help narrow the gap between town and country, but then rural areas must not lag behind in the expansion. Properly managed by the government and parliament, technology development can be an opportunity for rural areas and for development throughout the country. Thus, when developing, the government should take into account the needs of rural areas for rapid connectivity, which is in line with the fact that the government's decision is to be rural-proof. The 5G network will also be used for communication that from a security perspective is sensitive to Sweden. Development must therefore ensure, at all stages, our national security interests. The Left Party believes that strategic and security motives strengthen the reasons why the state should own the 5G network and be responsible for the expansion. With the state as the owner, the conditions can be strengthened to prioritise necessary and sustainable future investments over private operators' profit interests, and national security interests can be ensured. As I said, rural development must take place in parallel with urban development. This will not be guaranteed by private profit interests. A state-owned network is also the most socio-economically rational system because telecommunications networks are equivalent to other socially critical infrastructures that simply have to operate throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has a great understanding that postal operations are under great pressure of change due to digitalisation and changing communication patterns. The volume of mail is steadily decreasing, and Postnord has a community mission to ensure that there is a functioning postal service throughout the country. This is financed solely by postage. Sweden also has a competitive postal market, and private operators pick raisins out of the cake. Private operators have a major competitive advantage for two reasons. The first is that they do not have to distribute mail throughout the country but can be content to distribute where they make money from it. The second is that the post office must publish its prices publicly and have total price transparency, which means that the private operators can simply submit bids just under Postnords and get the contracts with large customers. This means that revenues for Postnord are drastically reduced while costs cannot be reduced accordingly as the rounds are still to be run. Postnord's package business is going well, but they may not transfer funds from package to letter. Nor, as I have already said, do they receive any state funding for the community mission, but the business should carry itself. All this means that the balance between service requirements and funding is not working. The situation will be strained for the mail section of the mail, and we are risking a downward spiral in which the postage is becoming unreasonably expensive and the service is deteriorating. Overall, the reduction in the volume of letters combined with the liberalisation of the postal market has weakened the conditions for a good public service throughout the country. This risks hitting hard those who depend on postal services and, not least, on the needs of rural areas for them to function properly. For the Left, it is essential that there is a postal service of equal quality for all individual citizens and businesses throughout the country, and we are concerned about current developments. We therefore assume that the government will come up with proposals to strengthen the universal postal service without giving away tax money to private interests. I would like to quote a former postmaster who also happens to be an active Christian Democrat, Peter Brännström, who, in an article in the DN, talks about what he sees as the root of the negative development: the abolition of the postal monopoly in 1993, 20 years before it was abolished in the rest of the EU. The demonopolisation of the letter business put pressure on Posten and we were forced to become more effective. It was probably good then, but it destroyed the future possibilities of maintaining a universal service as it was intended. He goes on to say, "But it's just economic facts. There are no conditions in a country like Sweden with the enormous geographical distances that we have and the number of miles that run in the postal service around the country to have parallel logistics systems. There is a certain type of service where you have to realize: If you want a national service, you have to have it in government direction all the way. ..................................................... The mail needs to be re-regulated. The service needs to be maintained and restored in some places. If necessary, the state must provide resources to ensure that the whole country receives an equivalent postal service with a high level of service. We in the Left Party want a national postal service, and we want it under government control – all the way.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-416	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic country, but many feel that Sweden is deteriorating. Schools are closed, emergency hospitals are closed, government agencies are closing down in their offices and the police are shining with their absence. In addition, the post office has problems. At the same time, modern technology is not being developed at such a rate that it compensates for the deterioration. All of this weakens the community and reduces security. Today we are discussing two areas, postal and IT, which are extremely important if we are to counteract the feeling that the country is being divided. Madam President, I would like Postnord has long struggled to make postal operations work, and the Riksdag has on several occasions reviewed both the regulations and the financial conditions for Postnord to be able to live up to current social responsibility. Yet the company returns with new reports of problems living up to this responsibility. We believe that it is extremely important for postal services to operate throughout the country. Sweden cannot have a situation where those living in our urban areas have a kind of service while those living in the country have to settle for another, often worse, service. We know that there are entrepreneurs who have problems developing their businesses if services deteriorate and older people who find it difficult to access social information if the morning newspaper cannot be delivered. We also know that municipalities and health care establishments need to be able to reach those who are not connected for various reasons. It is therefore important that we do everything in our power to ensure that all citizens have access to a functioning postal service. Madam President, I would like Already in our infrastructure movement, which we submitted last autumn, we argued for a new broad review of postal legislation and of Postnord. Until the day before we were going to adjust this report, the government's line was that there was no need for such an investigation. Now they have changed and adopted KD's line, which is positive. During yesterday's hearing, the government was clear that it wished to make a contribution to what this investigation should be dealing with. From our side, we have pointed out on several occasions the following:
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-424	中 clear definition of what is the social mission Long-term financing of social responsibility
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-427	中 functioning activities during peace and abuse the ownership relationship within Postnord, in this case between Sweden and Denmark, and possible privatisation; We hope that the Government will urgently return with a timetable and that all parties in the Riksdag will have the opportunity to participate in this dialogue. Madam President, I would like We see how important digital development is for citizens and business. Access to high-speed broadband is a prerequisite for people to be able to run businesses and work and study remotely. If Sweden is to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation, a continued roll-out of robust broadband across the country with high transmission capacity is required. We also want to highlight the challenges of digital segregation. This segregation exists not only between urban and rural areas but also between the economic and knowledge-based conditions for individuals and businesses in our country. Digital equality needs to be increased by giving more people access to broadband and fibre networks. The task of the broadband coordinators is to support and promote the work of regions and municipalities on broadband issues. They also play an important role as contact points on broadband issues for both public and private stakeholders. In order to facilitate broadband work throughout the country, we therefore call for continued investment in broadband coordinators. Madam President, I would like The dismantling of the old copper network for telephony affects the availability of telephony and broadband services offered by ADSL technology and connectivity through telephone jacks. This change affects in particular the rural population that has not yet had access to functioning broadband. We believe that the copper network should not be decommissioned before adequate compensation is in place at a reasonable cost. Madam President, I would like Whether we are talking about Postnord, IT, government agencies or roads and railways, it is important that we always stand up for the principle that the whole of Sweden should live. Unfortunately, we see that the current government in the area by area has failed to adhere to this principle. I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 11.
i-YKpJFDcWkZp7Tab1mBKH5w	Madam President, I would like I call for the approval of Amendment No 3 on the digitisation of society. The government says that Sweden will be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. The Central Statistical Office's 2018 survey shows that 84 per cent, i.e. 17 out of 20 people aged 16 to 85 use the Internet almost every day. It's a good platform to build on. We are a digital mature people compared to many others. However, it must be possible to connect to take advantage of everything offered digitally in the form of contact between people, welfare and culture and in terms of the ability to live and work throughout the country. It is therefore important that the broadband targets are realised and that we look at various technical solutions to get broadband also in rural and rural areas. The regulatory framework also needs to be reviewed in order to facilitate fibre drawing across municipal boundaries and along our roads. During the construction of broadband, it is important that the copper networks remain so that people in the country do not become unconnected, if they want it. Sweden will, as I said, be the best in the world on digitalisation. We have received a digitalization council, a digital administration agency, a focus on innovation hubs to match the European Commission's digital Europe programme, an investigation that looks at a Swedish-based cloud service and, more specifically, a data centre for AI at Lindholmen in Gothenburg. At the same time, the Swedish Financial Control Agency points out that digitalisation of the public sector is far too slow and that the Government's digitalisation strategy does not provide the necessary governance. The Digitalisation Council also points to challenges in the management of digitalisation. The OECD notes that Swedish companies are lagging behind internationally in the use of large amounts of data, and being able to handle large amounts of data will be extremely important in the future. The government should therefore point out more clearly which issues are priorities in the public administration and, on this basis, formulate clear mandates. A digitalisation strategy should be developed that is concrete, measurable and timed to get more pressure in digitalisation in public operations. Work on making data available in a secure way, the development of digital infrastructure, such as secure cloud services, and the deepening of digital skills must be accelerated in order for the benefits of digitalisation to be exploited more effectively by different organisations. But, Madam President, in the midst of all the work on digitalisation, which is essential for Sweden's competitiveness, we need to discuss the risks of digitalisation and not naively just drive development. It must be combined with analysis of data security, cybersecurity and the impact on privacy. In addition, it is important to put a defence aspect on what we do. How vulnerable do we become in Sweden when we collect a lot of data on specific hubs for easy data access and when the upcoming 5G network makes it increasingly connected by society and that all functions that are not digital are dismantled? How easily can society be knocked out? This is a very important issue on which we need to focus more. Madam President, I would like V i in the Liberals really believes in data-driven innovation and the potential of digitalisation for old and new companies and to reduce the costs of continued good welfare in Sweden. It facilitates people's lives in many different ways. It is also an important platform for Sweden to be the country of opportunity. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the post office in Sweden and how it is affected by digitalisation, which over the last 15 to 20 years has drastically reduced the number of letters sent. It is important that the postal service works throughout the country and that it can be operated on a commercial basis. Everyone realizes that the number of letters will continue to decrease. E-commerce will increase the number of packages. It is therefore important that the current review of postal legislation should turn all the stones around in order to find a long-term solution that secures postal services throughout the country. Postage, packages and broadband are important parts of society for the whole of Sweden to be able to live and function.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-445	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Committee on Transport's report on IT and postal matters. First of all, I would like to support the proposal by the Committee on Transport and Tourism and reject all reservations. Madam President, I would like Sweden is at the forefront of digitalisation and the roll-out of broadband. I wish we had gone further in all areas, but I am also aware that my colleagues from other countries wish they had the same situation as us. This means, because we are so far ahead, that a lot of innovation is taking place here in Sweden. Stockholm and Sweden have become a hub for new start-ups and innovations. At the moment, there are many advantages to the fact that we are investing a lot in digitalisation, but we must not be naive. We see that the environment is changing in a direction that neither of us wants. Threats from other countries are today real. Business secrets are under attack by foreign power. We see how groups on the right-wing edge use digital services to threaten and hate. Then it is our duty to ensure that our citizens can feel safe in our country. Madam President, I would like Broadband development is of the utmost importance for democracy. It doesn't work if we don't have broadband everywhere. I would like to remind you that the same objective has been in force since 2011. We will be the best in the world at using the digital services. I say that we are the best in the world at that, but we must ensure that this is the case throughout Sweden. The recent report from PTS shows that the 2020 target for broadband rollout will not be reached. PTS has therefore come up with a series of proposals for the extension to continue and speed up, especially in rural areas. I cannot see a scenario where the differences between city and country should continue to be large. Of course, rural areas are now expanding faster, but there are still large differences. There are three sub-objectives to achieve full broadband deployment. The first milestone is that 98% of all households and businesses should have access to 1 gigabit. PTS believes that by 2025 97 – 98% will have it. The second sub-goal is that a further 1.9%, that is 99.9%, should have access to at least 100 megabits. PTS estimates that 97.4 – 98.4 percent will reach this target by 2025. The third milestone is that all households and companies should have access to 30 megabits, which PTS estimates will be achieved by 2025. That's a good step forward. These are tough targets. However, I am concerned about what it will look like when it comes to technology neutrality. Recently, I have been in contact with various experts who have said different things. Is wireless technology good enough to withstand the transfer speeds we have set? Some suppliers argue that it is adequate and will work fully, while others are much more hesitant about it. That is why it is important to me that technology neutrality does not make a big difference for citizens in the search for profit or, for that matter, that we risk the robustness of our network. Madam President, I would like In the age of digitalisation, AI, artificial intelligence, and IOT, Internet of things also come. It's progressing at a furious pace. The prerequisite for this is that we have an expanded 5G network. We're not talking about it happening in 30, 50 or 100 years. We're talking about here and today. Self-driving cars are tested all over the world, AI helps doctors find cancer in people in seconds and IOT helps me control the heat in my house. There we need the mobile solutions. There are great opportunities for future companies and future jobs. It is therefore important that everything is connected in the Riksdag as well. What we do in the Committee on Transport and Tourism also needs those in the Committee on Education to know about and vice versa. The possibilities of digitalisation do not wait for some members of parliament to decide how they want it, but it goes on with or without us. An important part of the work takes place in our municipalities and regions. I see this in myself. Before I had to visit the health centre or hospital to collect my medication or get parts for my CPAP mask, which I breathe with. Today I just go into my health care contacts and order everything, and then it comes to my home. It is a development that is good for us citizens but also for society, as resources can be redistributed to other important areas. Madam President, I would like Digitization in all honor, but we still need to send mail and letters. Messages and packages will continue to be sent as before. It is clear that there are much smaller volumes when it comes to letters, but the package part is steadily increasing the more we shop online and online. In some way you can say that we who like that more and more digitized also contribute to the volume decrease. You can have different opinions about how good or bad it is. I really think it is good because it saves natural resources. Last Tuesday we had a joint meeting of the Transport Committee and the Industry Committee on Postnord. It was a good and constructive meeting where we had to ask questions to two ministers, Ibrahim Baylan and Anders Ygeman, and to Postnord's CEO Annemarie Gardshol. We have been informed by Minister Anders Ygeman of a new postal law investigation. It should be broad and go into depth about how the future post office in Sweden should work. Particular attention shall be paid to the appearance of postal delivery in sparsely populated areas. Madam President, I would like PTS reports that in 2018, shipments decreased by 183 million, approximately 8.3 per cent. It is a historically great decline, which continues year after year. In Sweden, 3 million citizens over the age of 18 now have a digital service for postal delivery. Therefore, postal distributors have had to adapt their activities to these circumstances. This, in turn, can mean that people are experiencing deterioration. The mail does not come every day or is placed in mailboxes at the houses, but in mail boxes where all the mailboxes in the area are located. PTS nevertheless notes that the target of 95 per cent of the letters being distributed within two days has been achieved. In 2018, this figure was 98.58 per cent. It is an important signal to us politicians that the postal service works despite the fact that the headlines may look different. PTS also notes in the report that postal services are now changing rapidly. PTS investigated who needs to receive letters five days a week. Only 5 percent thought they had this need. However, the report notes that the security of supply is still the most valuable thing, but also the possibility of influencing where letters and packages are to be delivered. PTS also notes that complaints have been reduced, which indicates that postal distributors have managed to change their organisations in the right direction to adapt their operations. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-465	Madam President, I would like When it comes to digitalisation, I don't think there are such huge dividing lines. But I reacted to Denis Begic's statement calling for the rejection of reservation 11 from the Swedish Democrats, the Left Party, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, where we are concerned about the dismantling of the copper wire. We know that broadband deployment is not positive in rural areas. We could hear this not least in Anders Hansson's speech. We know that much more is needed. Mr Denis spoke about the importance of democracy and access to fibre optics and digitalisation in a democracy. Personally, I am very afraid that we are leaving rural areas in the lurch and that we are removing rural democracy if it is not ensured that rural areas have access to the full Internet. Today, many people rely primarily on the copper wire. We also know that it costs nearly 20 billion to expand the last of the fibre optics. It's not a small sum. We'll have to respect that. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Denis what he says to those who live in sparsely populated areas and will be deprived of their internet.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-469	Madam President, I would like I thank Jimmy Ståhl for the question. I could start by asking: Was it right from the start to make a decision that the market should manage the entire distribution of the network? I am of the opinion that the market cannot do it. This has meant that the market also owns the copper network and can do things with it. However, the PTS study also looks at whether adequate compensation is given to those who will no longer have access to the copper network. There are places in Sweden where fibre withdrawal has been offered. It's a matter of all people jumping on this train. But there are also places where wireless solutions have been offered – 4G or otherwise. I have visited places where people have been helped by PTS, who can procure and help with solutions when market participants do not want to expand because it is too expensive. There are therefore adequate opportunities for people where Telia in particular has announced that they will remove the copper network to replace it with fiber or wireless solutions.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-472	Madam President, I would like It is very safe if you have access to alternative opportunities to access the internet. In my speech earlier, I told you that when I travel by train between Gothenburg and Stockholm, it is not too rarely that my conversations are disconnected. And then I am not in sparsely populated areas, but rather close to cities. When I try to get internet access on my computer or on the iPad when I'm working, the computer or the iPad is chewing and the famous ring is interfering with the work. But in sparsely populated areas, for example, far up in Norrland, there is a great distance, and we know that there is a great worry there. If the Social Democrats, who sit in the government, had clearly said that they would be a guarantee that their copper wire would not disappear, I think that security would have increased. This is about small payment stations when you are going to charge in, for example, your small shop up in the mountains. If the connection doesn't work, you can't charge for your business. And we know that cash handling is catastrophic. If you have cash, you tear down your hair to get rid of them. There are no entrepreneurs who want to receive cash because cash handling costs hugely. I am also concerned about our friends in rural and rural areas. I would have liked the Social Democrats at least to be able to promise that the copper thread will remain until an adequate remuneration is in place. Can Denis Begic promise this?
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-476	Madam President, I would like A lot of questions have been asked about this. What I can promise is that rural areas will have the same access to the network that the rest of the country has. It's number one. As I said, it is up to market players to decide where to build and where not to build depending on what it costs. But we also know that PTS is following very closely that people actually get what is stated in the targets set. Everyone with whom I have spoken and who has had copper networks has a couple of years before the copper network was shut down has been asked whether they want wireless connection or fibre in their houses. Then it has often been about money and if you can afford to pay. And there, somewhere, we're parting. Somewhere I think the market has not fixed everything that I think should have been fixed in Sweden. Another question I was asked was that it is not always possible to connect when you travel by train. Even I ride trains, and sometimes the famous circle comes up from time to time. You don't always need the internet, but usually you need the internet. I hope that the 5G network will solve a lot of problems. I would also like to see a clear priority given to where this 5G network should be first and foremost in order for it to eventually expand more and more. It would make a lot easier for travellers who travel at work or in private. I hope to see it when the sale of 5G spectrum starts.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-479	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Denis for his speech. I have a question about the principle of location. In Sweden, it is common for fibre-based broadband expansion to take place in municipalities. These municipal activities are often referred to as urban networks and can be carried out in the municipality's own administration. However, urban network activities are often carried out in municipal limited liability companies. There are about 160 municipally owned urban networks which together make up 51 percent of the market. I myself come from a municipality where we have started an urban network a little because of the same problems that we have discussed in this House. It was no problem to get actors who wanted to build in the slightly larger towns or cities, but they were a little more difficult to flirt when it came to the countryside because it costs all the more. Therefore, the municipality had to go in and build this city network. Then you should also know that I come from a municipality that may well be considered not to be sparsely populated but rather rural. We may not have the troubles that others have further up the country. This is where the principle of location comes in as a very large part. As I said in my speech, one must sometimes be able to break the localisation principle and ask other municipalities, which are geographically close to certain parts of their own municipality, to build broadband. My question to Mr Denis is therefore: can you support a change in the location principle?
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-483	Madam President, I would like Let me be ideological for about 15 seconds. The market promises, but the market only cares how much money it can make. In addition, the associations and other actors who actually want to build will be able to get this for all people. That is why we have the problem we have in Sweden, namely that the market builds where there is money to make but not where there is no money to make. I have talked a lot about the localisation principle with Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR. I have also talked to the broadband associations that exist and with others out there. I feel that this is an important thing, and my message to the Moderates is that I will do everything I can to change it. Unfortunately, however, this is not directly in the TU, i.e. the Transport Committee, but it is the Constitutional Committee that should handle it because it has to do with the municipal law and other things. I will therefore work hard towards my party colleagues to try to change the location principle, precisely because it will be possible to build in neighbouring areas. This can be about neighboring households, which may be located three or five metres from another municipality, and so on. I believe that this is an important issue and I hope to be able to find a solution to it this year.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-485	Madam President, I would like Thank you for calming me down, Denis Begic! It feels safe that you will work for this. After all, SKR and PTS have said that what the government has said before, namely that this should go through municipal contractual cooperation, cannot be done. SKR notes that there is considerable uncertainty and uncertainty as to how contractual cooperation could be used for the construction, ownership and operation of broadband structures. In the case of contractual cooperation, only the performance of tasks is transferred to another municipality or region; the overall responsibility for the task is not transferred but remains the responsibility of the transferring municipality or region. In addition, contracts can only be concluded between municipalities and not between municipal companies, and also the procurement rules need to be taken into account. So there are a lot of questions about this, so I am pleased that the government is changing its feet a little and saying that it is not possible through municipal contractual cooperation. I think this is a good thing, because this has been a question for many municipalities when it comes to not being able to do the extension. As Mr Denis said, you can have a household located three metres from an adjacent municipality and where it would be logical and economically reasonable for that household to be part of the other municipality. So I think that's very good. When it comes to Denis Begics 15 seconds on ideology, I guess I have a little more confidence in market forces, but I do not have such blind faith that I believe that the market can solve all the concerns and that the state can sit back. Since we are such a large country geographically, there will be concerns in some places, and there the state will have to help. On this point we are therefore in agreement, but then I believe a little more in the other forces of the market.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-489	Madam President, I would like It still feels quite safe that we agree in some respects on how this should be handled, Anders Hansson. I just wanted to go back a little bit in time to when we decided how to do this. Now we have that decision in place, and it is of course based on the conditions we have to work. I know that the report states that broadband associations and others, when visiting us, have told us that one of the major concerns of urban networks and the broadband associations around the country is that they are unable to deliver. Somewhere I heard a figure showing that changing the location principle would make it possible to cope with many percentages. If such a low-hanging fruit can make us get even more broadband out in the country, it is obvious to me that we will work on it. Unfortunately, it is not up to us to decide on this issue, it is the KU. However, that does not prevent us from working on the issue.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-491	Madam President, I would like Last autumn, when we all sat and wrote our motions, we Christian Democrats were the only ones to write about the need for a comprehensive investigation into the postal mission. The reason we look at it is that the volume of letters is decreasing and will continue to do so; we are all agreed on that. We also see a challenge in terms of accessibility, from one day to two days and possibly another form of service. Then, unfortunately, we also see individual cases where letters simply arrive too late, which have affected business – and perhaps even more individuals, who get their call from care the day after they should have been there and the like. It causes costs for us in society. I am therefore extremely happy today, because everyone has now signalled that they think that a broad investigation is positive. I am pleased, and I suspect that there will be such a signal from the last speaker as well. However, I do of course wonder what is meant by the broad scope of the investigation. After all, we want it to be so broad that everyone has the opportunity to be involved, and that is why my question is: what do the government parties have in mind and will they go into depth?
i-A6bCrfW7kAMs3BSZSJAwWr	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Magnus Jacobsson! I don't think you can explain this much more than I have. So I think we need to look at the whole postal market, especially in the case of letters and mail. What do we see for the future? What will the future look like? We had to ask questions to the ministers and Postnord yesterday, and the minister said: Bring everything, and let me know – I am open to discussion about what should be included in the investigation! The investigation is not in place, which means that we from different parties have every opportunity to influence the focus on it. What could we have in the investigation? We heard today, among other things, that Magnus Jacobsson wishes a broad investigation, and he actually listed quite a few points that he would like to see in it. There is nothing to prevent the honourable Member from actually contributing this and sending it to the Minister for Enterprise and Post. I'm really looking forward to the investigation. Even if the letters come on time, we do not know what will happen in two, three or five years when digitalisation takes over more and more.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-497	Madam President, I would like I will now change the subject. Today, unfortunately, we are seeing a situation where the roll-out of broadband is slowing down a little, especially in rural areas. We also see that there is a difference in accessibility between city and country, as several of the speakers have pointed out in an exemplary way. We also see a change in the price picture. When it was village teams and people who worked on this more nearby it cost about SEK 100 per meter to expand the network. For the individual household, somewhere between 20,000 and 25,000 were landed, and many chose to join. However, we have seen a development where more companies have come in, and we see how the big players have gone in – including Telia. All of a sudden we are in a price picture of 300 crowns. This actually violates any kind of classic market theory; where more people act, it should be cheaper, but more people act here and it becomes more expensive. It's quite an interesting development. What is worse about development is that the money coming from the rural development programme is at risk of freezing in. If you book up, you look for money and then you don't build, you stop someone else from building. This is a problem that in its worst case scenario would allow us to return 1 billion to the EU. It is not the case that the money is returned to ourselves, but that it is 1 billion that did not become broadband. Then I come to my very specific question, Madam President: what does the government intend to do to ensure that we use the money available in today's programme to build broadband in rural areas as planned?
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-502	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your commitment, I can say, because I also have that on this particular issue. Last week or last week we had a Question Time here when I just asked this question to the minister responsible: what are we doing to ensure that the companies that have said that they are delivering something are also delivering this? There are places where you have put up a sign that says a certain company's name, and that has been the case for three years. But nothing has happened, and the money is tied. PTS has now come up with some measures and some proposals that I hope will soon be implemented, including that we get a comprehensive picture for the whole country of what it looks like. From there you start – where there is the least broadband, you should invest first and give support and money for this. Then you should continue in other places. I think that is a wise idea, because then one could instead build from outside and inside. Nor must we forget that last year much more was actually built in rural areas, according to the statistics we have seen. I think it was built 10% more in rural areas than it was built in our densely populated areas. The countryside can also be 50 km outside Örebro, so it looks a little different in Sweden. Therefore, I think that the overall picture of how it is out there that PTS is now talking about should enable us to build faster on the right places – where there is a lack of the most broadband.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-505	Madam President, I would like Now I'm just standing here between you in the Chamber and lunch! I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like Sweden is at the forefront of digitalisation, but yet there are challenges. When progress is fast, someone is falling behind. There are still people in Sweden who do not have access to fast and stable connectivity and people who do not feel safe using digital services. There are also many activities, not least public ones, which have found it difficult to incorporate new, digital ways of working that benefit citizens as well as organisations. That is why digitalisation policy is needed. The Green Party wants to support digitalisation throughout the country through a well-developed and well-functioning digital infrastructure and well-functioning telephony and internet throughout the country. It was with this perspective that Sweden's broadband strategy was delivered by the then environmental-partisan digitization minister Peter Eriksson. Broadband infrastructure is a prerequisite for improving digital accessibility across the country and thus reducing the gaps between urban and rural areas. Today it's not just about a private person being able to watch films from different streaming services – which in itself does not work either without a well-functioning connection – but also about being able to have access to public services, both now and in the future. Already there are a number of digital care services that make it easier for patients and that also have the potential to develop healthcare. Perhaps today we find ourselves relatively well off with a connection with slightly lower quality, but what about the day we are offered digital supervision at night instead of home service poking in and disturbing sleep? We need to think long-term. The Green Party wants to develop the possibilities of taking advantage of digital technology and e-health in healthcare. Digital accessibility is important for people to live, live, work and run businesses throughout the country. More and more jobs can be done remotely. Digitalisation is an important piece of the puzzle in a transport-efficient society, which is essential if we are to achieve our climate goals. But even here, the availability of a stable and reliable connection is crucial. Whether you work with heavy digital graphics or have a simple booking service for a hotel or a guest house, the connection does not mess up, or clique, as we say in Skåne. The Green Party wants to strengthen the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas and improve the conditions for the tourism industry to use digital services. In the government's broadband strategy, as I mentioned earlier, the target is that 95% of all households and businesses should already this year have access to broadband in at least 100 megabits per second. Unfortunately, as we have heard before, according to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, this objective will not be achieved. In their mobile coverage and broadband mapping in 2018, it turned out that approximately 81 per cent of all households and companies in Sweden had access to broadband in at least 100 megabits per second. Compared to the previous year, however, there was an increase of good 4 percentage points. As mentioned earlier, PTS states that today we are probably at 85 – 88 per cent. This shows, however, that the roll-out of the digital infrastructure has taken off. For 2020, the Government has allocated SEK 150 million for broadband support, and PTS has recently presented a proposal for the design of broadband support. Work is now continuing to achieve the other objectives of the broadband strategy. By 2023, Sweden as a whole should have access to stable, high-quality mobile services. This applies where people normally are, for example in the home, at work or for that matter on a train.
i-5cafe13dadcf7968-518	Although DESI, the Digital Economy and Society Index, ranks Sweden fourth in terms of connectivity, we know that more needs to be done for everyone to take part in the digitalization opportunities. The Government also works on the basis of the digitalisation strategy, For a sustainable digitised Sweden, which was decided in May 2017. It contains five sub-objectives on D competence, D security, D innovation, D management and D infrastructure. Linked to the Government's digitisation strategy, there is also a digitisation council that has pointed out that the main challenges for digitalisation policy are to manage digital skills and management. The government is working in accordance with these two strategies, and about 200 initiatives related to the milestones have been developed. These include investments in the state budget, assignments to authorities and proposals and decisions on new legislation. However, it is important to continue to take into account the vulnerabilities that come with digitalisation, as well as safeguarding privacy and user security. This report also contains postal matters, and like the other speakers, I would like to touch on this. It is the Committee on Transport and Tourism that regulates the postal market, and it has probably not escaped anyone that Postnord is in a challenging position. However, it is far from as bad as some headlines have claimed. Postnord is not going bankrupt, it was the message we received at the constructive meeting we had yesterday with Ibrahim Baylan and Anders Ygeman and Postnord's CEO. On the other hand, measures need to be taken because the volume of letters in society has fallen sharply and continues to decline. The suit simply cannot be the same as at the time when both personal letters and invoices always came in the form of a paper in a glued envelope. The Government has therefore announced a postal law investigation into how future mail will function and be financed. It is important in such an investigation to take account of the needs of the postal services of different people. Are the needs different in rural and urban areas? Is there a difference between young and old? What are the needs of those who have businesses? Postal services must be available throughout the country, be of good quality – the letters must, of course, come forward – and have a reasonable price. But with this said: the post office will not look in the future as it did yesterday.
