i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-2	Madam President, I would like Take a four to be a hundred. It was a new expression for me, which I was unfortunately taught this morning. It is the police who describe how young people are recruited for crime. After all, it is lower punishment when really young people commit crimes — serious drug offences, gun crimes, even murder. You get a lower prison sentence, but you get hailed as a hero. The police described this morning how more and more you come across the expression, and take a four to be a hundred when you find 15- and 16-year-olds who commit serious crimes, who even get an order job on murder. The police also testify that more and more really young people are in gang crime, some children as young as 10 years old. We all know, and all the research shows, that there is something we can do to prevent crime, it is to ensure that all children and young people complete primary school and preferably also high school with full grades. This is not the case in Sweden. In the spring 16,500 pupils left – there are as many as 600 classes – comprehensive school without a comprehensive school qualification and eligibility to upper secondary school. It is a tragedy for Sweden, for these children and young people see a rather dark future ahead of them and easily become a target for the criminal gangs. We Moderates will never let the children down. Everyone should complete comprehensive school with full grades. A few weeks ago, one of the major international surveys, Timss, was presented, where some sixty countries measure mathematics and natural knowledge between themselves. We now see in all international measurements that the negative trend is definitely broken. The improvements in Swedish students' knowledge that have taken place in recent years are continuing. We also see in our own statistics that more students pass the school. All in all, it is very pleasing and a decision of strength for Swedish school. ..................................................... That is what Anna Ekström, Minister of Education, says. This is the response of the Social Democrats to the current situation in Swedish schools. When 600 classes, 16,500 children, leave comprehensive school without a degree, it is a joyous decision for Swedish school. No, Madam President, that does not hold. I am deeply concerned about Swedish school. What we should be discussing here today is how we make sure that all children pass school. We Moderates have several hundred proposals, but what I want to mention now, and as all research shows, what is most prioritised is more hours in school. More hours in school are good for all children – children who have difficulties, high-performance children and children in between. More hours are necessary in both mathematics and Swedish. Mathematics knowledge was what Timss measured, where our dear minister of school thought it was such a good news. It shows that Sweden is under-presiding in mathematics among all OECD and EU countries. In Sweden, where we say that we are a high-tech country and that we are high-performance, we are below the average in mathematics skills compared to 60 other countries. That is not a good news, as the Minister of Education says. It is a terrible development in Swedish school. We must have more hours in both mathematics and Swedish starting already day one. We do not measure quality in Swedish schools either. This is quite incomprehensible given that we measure quality in all other activities and think it is important. But perhaps the most important of all, the quality of Swedish school, we do not measure. We Moderates suggest that we introduce quality measurements, between schools and between classes, so that the School Inspectorate can review the quality and take action on those schools that need help getting the results up. Ultimately, we are going to close schools which, year after year, do not provide a sufficient basis for our children and young people. We Moderates also think that the School Inspectorate, which we set up under the Alliance Government, is incredibly important. Therefore, we put more resources in the School Inspectorate so that, in addition to helping with advice, support and action plans, it will be able to review the quality of all schools and preschools. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Education chooses not to be here today to debate against us, unlike later today when the Minister of Higher Education is involved in talking about research and education. Instead, the Minister of Education chooses to have a digital meeting where, among other things, one once again intends to run the free schools is what is Sweden's problem. Madam President, I would like I and we Moderates do not think it is the free schools that are Sweden's problem. The problem is that the Social Democrats fail children, leave 600 full school classes every year to a rather dark future and do not even want to discuss the problems.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-17	Madam President, I would like It was an exciting start to this debate. I will start by agreeing with Kristina Axén Olin on one thing: When it comes to preventing crime, the most important thing is that we ensure that all children finish school with approved grades. I very much agree with that. Then I don't agree with so much else. Yesterday, Chairman of the Moderate Party Ulf Kristersson gave his Christmas speech. A little bit of what he said also raised the honourable Member now but in a bit more vague terms. Kristersson said, among other things, that in Sweden where you are going should be more important than where you come from. Outsidership should not be inherited. He also said that so-called Danish education policy needs to be tightened up and that it should be characterised by high expectations, clear demands and a focus on knowledge. That goes without saying, and I agree. But how are we going to do that in the school that we have today? Kristina Axén Olin did not talk a bit in her speech about what still helps not all children to survive, namely the system fault that we have in Swedish school where children no longer meet in school but where they are sorted and go to different schools. What is Kristina Axén Olin's solution to increasing equivalence? The honourable Member has not talked about anything at all. She's just listed all the wrongs. What is the Moderate solution?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-22	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Gunilla Svantorp and I agree that the introduction to my speech is serious and correct. If there is anything we should do to prevent children and young people from falling into crime, it is to ensure that they graduate from school. Gunilla Svantorp chooses to quote our party leader Ulf Kristersson's speech yesterday when he spoke, just as I have done here today, about high expectations, a good quality in school and that all children should be able to succeed in school. But then Gunilla Svantorp chooses to start talking about the system error and that we should discuss the system error with children being sorted. Madam President, I would like That is exactly what the Social Democrats are now choosing to hold a debate on, namely that they want to sort out children even more. The Social Democrats are now paying tribute to Björn Åstrand's investigation, which talks about drawing, bushing and quotas to solve Swedish school's problems. It is not a solution to start busing children between different residential areas and to remove decisions from the kitchen table about which school you want to choose! Instead, talk about how to deal with the 16,500 children who do not pass elementary school! I'd like to hear that. How can the solution be to bushing, drawing and quotas?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-26	Madam President, I would like As usual, we do not receive any answers from Mr Olin. Instead, she chooses to focus on something completely different and even stands in the speaker's seat and says something that is not true. There's no suggestion to bus students anywhere. Kristina Axén Olin knows as well as I do that selection is only done if there are more applicants than there are places. This is not how it looks throughout our country. I think you should try to look at what is proposed in Björn Åstrand's investigation. I am curious as to what the honourable Member has actually found in the investigation. What is good among the 800 - 900 pages? After all, there must be something that the honourable Member thinks is good about equivalence. I would like to hear what the honourable Member thinks. What is the Moderate solution for increasing equivalence in Swedish school?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-30	Madam President, I would like I am happy to discuss with Gunilla Svantorp what you need to do in Swedish school. I set out what we think in my introduction. We need to make sure that all children pass the school. It is about more hours, about improving quality, about measuring quality, about better teacher education, about better principals, about more knowledge focus and about order and order in school. I could line up our several hundred proposals if Gunilla Svantorp is interested in discussing them. But instead of discussing the school's problems, the Social Democrats choose to talk about systems and how to deal with different quotas and move the focus completely away from our major future problem, namely how to deal with the Swedish school's development that is going in the wrong direction. More than one in four children in grade 6 had marks in the grade this spring. It's a terrible development.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-33	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Kristina Axén Olin a question about a proposal made by the Left Party in Parliament not long ago. This is about the principle of public access. We put forward a committee initiative in which we believe that all data and statistics on schools should be available to researchers, journalists, politicians, parents and everyone in our society. One might think it quite obvious that when we finance activities with tax money, as the Moderates claim to be protecting, the people who have paid this tax money should be able to know what is happening in schools. Yet the Moderates and Kristina Axén Olin voted against this committee initiative. We heard in the line shift with Gunilla Svantorp that the Moderates do not believe that there are any system errors. Is it correctly understood that the Moderates believe that the system is working well as it is today? Do you think that equality and equivalence prevail in Swedish schools, that there are no problems with segregation of school elections, that the marketing school is not a problem and that we should not be allowed to take part in the tasks that are our democratic right to access? Is that the policy of the Moderates?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-36	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat asks me if I am not concerned about segregation in Swedish school. Well, the Moderates and I are very concerned about the segregation of knowledge that we have in Swedish schools when 16,500 children are left behind. If the trend continues so that more than one in four children has lines already in grade 6, as I said, it is a horrifying development. I am deeply concerned that we have so many schools where too many children, even up to half, leave school year after year without full grades. I am happy to discuss much more with the Left Party and Daniel Riazat how to overcome the segregation of knowledge that we have in Swedish schools. Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat is asking me about the principle of public access. There are really both short answers and long answers to that question. The view of the principle of public access and this is that results and information should be open to everyone to see we share moderates and, in principle, also school representatives I meet. In this way, the principle of public access can sound like a simple and obvious solution. The problem is that the principle of public access is so much different. I sat a few years ago at the City Hall in Stockholm and know that legalists can destroy processes by asking for material about everything and nothing out of anger. The same could happen for a free school or a small school – that for some reason someone starts to request all information about a student, all documentation about a student and all conversations between teachers and principals. Daniel Riazat has a sister who is the principal of a free school – a rather small free school out on the Järva field. If Daniel Riazat asked the sister what it would be like for a small free school if someone asked for information in this way, Daniel Riazat would understand me.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-42	Madam President, I would like I did not know that this debate was about our families. It is interesting to hear that the Moderates portray it as wanting data to be available. However, this is not the case when you vote in Parliament, so you have to take that as empty words. Kristina Axén Olin is talking about talking to the smaller free schools. Both us and the School World magazine and other media have done so. They say this isn't a problem. This is the Moderate position to defend the corporate schools that have things to hide, not to protect the smaller free schools. I should also like to add, Madam President, that I have been chairman of the school board. People asked for information in principle every day, and that was no problem. Democracy must take time. People should be given access to information that they have the right to access on the basis that they have financed the business with their tax money.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-46	Madam President, I would like I can assure Daniel Riazat that the Moderates and I personally definitely think it is important that quality measurements, results, finances and all such things continue to be public documents. There are now proposals that both SCB and the Swedish National Agency for Education have developed on how to solve this in the future. I and we Moderates are absolutely willing to sit down with other parties and discuss a solution that will enable these tasks to continue to be public. On the other hand, to decide here on a proposal with other consequences, we are not prepared to contribute to this. For a smaller school, it can mean that you are basically forced to close. There is no possibility to pass that administration if one or a few people start to request all documentation on a daily basis. It can't take a little school. And 93 percent of all our free schools are one or two units.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-49	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my support for the Swedish Democrats' reservation. When, quite exactly a year ago, we stood in this House debating the last budget, none of us knew what would come, that 2020 would be a year like nothing else in modern times. Indeed, the past year has been anything but normal, and it has tested our society to the full. School is no exception. Teachers have struggled frantically to stay healthy on the one hand, on the other hand to ensure that school activities have continued. The students, for their part, have received a schooling that has not been the same either. It has been, and still is, a strained situation, and we are all deeply grateful for the efforts made and made. Last week the Tims report was presented, an international study that measures the knowledge of mathematics and science in grades 4 and 8. The results have certainly not deteriorated compared to 2015, but the fact that the Swedish results in mathematics are below the OECD average may nevertheless be considered extremely unsatisfactory. In science, the Swedish results are just above the OECD average. What is interesting about the report is that when you do a closer examination of the results, you can see that Sweden is remarkably far behind the very best countries in both subjects in terms of results at an advanced and very high level. The best student results are therefore not enough to be competitive with the very best countries with which we will compete in the future and also in the present. This is one thing that needs to be improved. H is one would have expected sharp reactions from the current government, but they did not. But the results must be improved if we want Sweden to be a leading researcher in the future. Why, then, are the Swedish results just mediocre? A big explanation, we think, is that for a long time we have had just a mediocre attitude toward knowledge. The important thing in politics has been how many students pass the pass limit, not how many students perform top scores. Since the introduction of the unitary school in the 1960s, Swedish school's basic problems have been the idea of leaving all students in the same form. Instead of talking about increased knowledge and higher ambitions, the debate is stuck on issues of system change and other peripheral issues. It is an idealess social democracy that stands completely in the hands of the future. The Swedish Democrats' budget motion for the school has a clear focus on knowledge and security. We want to address with vigour the things that have a detrimental effect on the acquisition of knowledge. One example of this is the problems of order. The school inspectorate's survey for 2020 showed that three out of ten students in grade 5 experience that others interfere with them in class, i.e. 30%. In grade 9, this figure has increased to six out of ten students, 60 per cent. Not having peace and quiet in the study environment is anything but inspiring and has a negative impact on knowledge acquisition. At the same time, the Teacher Association's survey from last year also showed that teachers are uncertain about what they can do to maintain order in the classroom. It is clear that changing legislation as well as regulations, general advice and training are needed to address these problems. In the budget we are now debating, the Swedish Democrats are proposing an investment of SEK 1 billion, in addition to the government's efforts, to address the problems of school order. We believe that the role of the School Inspectorate must be strengthened. We want to see more unannounced visits and more return visits. We want the Swedish School Inspectorate to act decisively when schools do not meet the minimum requirements regarding safety, work environment, maintenance of fundamental Swedish values and good teaching. We also think that grossly mismanaged schools should be taken over by the state. In our Sweden, schools such as Rörmosseskolan would have been closed long ago. Our security billion also includes interventions at school and classroom level. We want to introduce a clear system of on-call classes for those students who do not work in a normal school environment. This would mean that they would be given extra support and education, while other students would have a calm and secure environment in the classroom and thus also extra support and teaching. For those students who are violent and pose a threat to other pupils or teachers, there must also be regional emergency schools. The bullies should be moved; the bullies should not remain. It is not those who are being bullied who are to be moved. A calm and secure study environment also means that teachers can devote themselves to what they are trained to. The teaching role has for decades been transformed into something completely different from just teaching. Today, the teacher functions as a peer supporter, social security secretary, and not least a bureaucrat. We can't have that. This is precisely why we are proposing a greater effort in order, among other things, to be able to employ outside staff who can relieve teachers. This applies to IT educators, curators, special educators and administrative support. The status of the teaching profession must also be increased and the very best students recruited into the teaching profession. We are in favour of the work being done to broaden recruitment to the teaching profession, but we believe that it is important to also make the profession attractive enough so that the newly graduated teachers remain in school. This requires a completely different level of pay from today's level. We therefore want, among other things, to replace the government's first teacher services with a new career system for teachers to make the profession attractive. This should be based on development, coordination, mentoring and demands for increased pupil performance. Our model should apply throughout the country and consist of different career levels. In addition, in this year's budget, we spend 325 million more than the government on just increasing teacher salaries. The Swedish Democrats also want to abolish the equivalence contribution that the government introduced just over two years ago. The grant is a state grant that the principals can apply for for contributions at the main level, school level, classroom level or teacher level. We are critical of the entire structure of the grant. Investments should be long-term and have clear objectives and objectives. The concept that the government has now chosen is more project-based and does not guarantee any long-term perspective whatsoever. It also generates a lot of time for the application process itself and also for subsequent reports. We believe that the efforts needed to strengthen equivalence should be covered by the general state contribution to the municipalities. We also believe that the absolute best recipe for strengthening equality in schools would be to allow the state to regain its head office. Madam President, I would like The foundation for successful schooling is laid already in pre-school age. A safe and inspiring environment stimulates the desire to learn and arouses curiosity in children. Unfortunately, we are faced with ominous reports about how it looks in preschool: high workload, understaffing and an increase in ill-health among preschool staff. We believe that this is important to remedy as quickly as possible. That is precisely why we are spending 1 billion more on our budget than the government in preschool. This pre-school billion is earmarked but is to be considered an open state grant, i.e. it is up to the municipalities and preschools to decide for themselves what the money is to be used for. Examples include localisations, improved stay and work environment, night activities or other interesting activities. In addition to this billion, we also want to abolish the deduction for pre-school staff. Neither children nor staff should be in the business when they are ill. Today's withdrawal does not stimulate pre-school staff to stay at home with, for example, a cold. We believe that the abolition of withdrawals would increase the health of staff and also reduce the risk of infection. Madam President, I would like In summary, the Swedish Democrats' budget movement means strong efforts to create calm and secure study environments, where knowledge and education can thrive and where the teacher's role is to teach and work with the students' knowledge progression. It is high time we got a new focus on politics.
i-8umcw4Ma3FKgNF6ve7NAdV	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats went to elections in 2014 on the fact that they were against the profits in school and welfare. In 2015, the Swedish Democrats were courted by welfare capitalists, who most often belong to Patrick Patrick's former party The Moderates. At the end of the last parliamentary term, the Swedish Democrats voted to retain unlimited profits and profit interests within the school. At the moment, 16 800 teachers have signed a petition that clearly rejects the system of market thinking and profit that we have today. In the paper these people have been called various different things by Patrick Reslow. They are poor of ideas and belong to an extreme left, among other expressions that Patrick Reslow has used. I simply wonder: How is it that the Swedish Democrats went from 2014 to being one of the parties that stood up strongest against the profits in welfare to today being the party in the Swedish parliament that defends the profits in school more than any other party?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-68	Madam President, I would like First of all, we need to keep the concepts separate. I didn't say the teachers who signed were poor of ideas, Daniel Riazat. I said that poor left. It is the poor left, including Daniel Riazat, who is pushing these issues. I did not say either that these people were extremely left, but they are for a discussion conducted by the extreme left, including Daniel Riazat. Let's have the concepts clear. You can't just take loose words from a Twitter post, or whatever it was, and apply anyway. We can have some decency in the debate. When it comes to the decision to accept profits in welfare or not, that is how a democratic party works. There are meetings where members decide which line should apply. Perhaps there is no such democratic system in Daniel Riazats's party – that would be unfortunate, I think. But in our party, it is the members who decide what to do. This debate took off, and it may be that sometimes it turns out that the attitude you have is not right. Then you have to change your mind. This usually comes from below, from members. The Left has been pushing this issue for quite some time this autumn. Why do you do that? Why is Daniel Riazat so committed to this particular issue? It is not that he stands up for freedom of choice or for there to be several different actors in school. It is about his wanting to remove the free schools altogether, except perhaps the idea-driven free schools. In other words, he hides the debate and chastises it. I do not think this is very good. Above all, I do not think it is up to Daniel Riazats to intervene and discuss what positions our members take at our democratic meetings.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-73	Madam President, I would like We are such a democratic party that our Members do not end up in scandals with iron pipes in the city in time or because they do not submit their data to the Riksdag when the economy is to be reported. With regard to the issue of the prize hunt, I would like to make it clear that there is nothing to hide. The Left Party wants to abolish profit and market thinking in schools and protect the serious players in the school system. There is no doubt about that. But I wonder why you changed your mind so quickly. In fact, it happened over a week, and it was certainly not decisions by members that led to this turnaround. Therefore, I simply wonder how much the dinners that the business community offered you affected.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-76	Madam President, I would like I already announced the last time Daniel Riazat engaged in the personal hope that this is not decent in this room. I would like it to be taken up in the Conference of Presidents. The Left Party and Daniel Riazat stand here and say that some members of certain parties do the dynasty and the dynasty and that one should therefore be quite quiet when debating. At the same time, Daniel Riazats's party has representatives in this hall who have attacked the police during demonstrations. This Daniel Riazat forgets. But he can look it up in the media if he wants to. I don't think we should talk about such things, but we should stick to the facts. Daniel Riazat is happy to be involved in what positions we make in the Swedish Democrats. However, I do not think it is up to this House to discuss what priorities our members choose to take at our congresses. If Daniel Riazat wants to become a member of the Swedish Democrats and hold that debate there, he is very welcome.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-78	I would remind you that we are in a good tone in the debate. That goes for everyone, of course.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-79	Madam President, I would like Patrick Reslow said just now that teachers in vulnerable areas with the model of the Swedish Democrats will no longer be able to get paid more. Instead, you propose a career service model based on an increase in student results. What we know today about the results is that a mixed student composition is very important. We do not see that such a thing exists in the affected areas. I am therefore a little curious about how Patrick Reslow and the Swedish Democrats believe that one should manage to give the teachers who really do the hardest job out in the affected areas a higher salary with that system. That was the first question. The second question is that you delete in one sentence the entire equivalence premium. I quote from your text that we believe that grants need to be more specific and targeted than this contribution in order to be effective. "You'll be very curious about what the support you'll get to increase equivalence will look like according to the Swedish Democrats." Patrick Reslow also spoke in his speech, and above all in the line just now, a great deal about freedom of choice. I can't help asking a question. Patrick Reslow does not think that we should change the system that Björn Åstrand has come up with in his solid investigation. Why does Patrick Reslow think it is more important that January children can choose school than December children can?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-83	Madam President, I would like I have to thank Gunilla Svantorp for the questions. Maybe I should start with the last one, about freedom of choice. I understand Gunilla Svantorp is after the queue time. We have said from our side that we are willing to discuss the queue time, that is, when you can put your child in line for a free school. We are not prepared to abolish queue time, but it is certainly a problem if you put your child in line already on the day it is born. It is perhaps more reasonable to have a different order, for example that at the beginning of each spring semester you can report the child from outside when it will start school. At least we're open to discussing. We are happy to talk with Gunilla Svantorp and her party about how to design such a rule. The problem is that Gunilla Svantorp and her party are never interested in having any discussions with the Swedish Democrats. Then it is difficult to come up with solutions. As far as equivalence is concerned, in our budget exercise we have a contribution to make to municipalities. It includes money to ensure equivalence. But for us, it is not just spending money on areas that are important. We believe that equivalence is about getting state leaders and a clearer state regulation. We want more qualified teachers, and we want to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession. We want a strengthened Vice-Chancellor's role, follow-up of students' knowledge results, order and order in the classrooms and so on. We want preparation classes and longer time in those for students who do not master the Swedish language. All this forgets Gunilla Svantorp to discuss. In her world, it is only the investigation, with strict, controlled directives, that has the solution to all the problems. But that is not the case; it will not be a good solution. We will be standing here in a few years and discussing the same problem again.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-87	Madam President, I would like I very much hope that we will not do so and will come up with a solution to how to face the inequality that we see in Swedish school. Equivalence is very much about student composition. That doesn't mention Patrick Reslow. I did not get an answer on how to solve the issue of children being sorted and going to different schools today. It is embarrassing for the Swedish Democrats, I think, that they do not answer that question. I would like to conclude by asking another question, which is about something we had up in our committee a few weeks ago. Free schools are currently funded by tax. They exercise authority and are paid for the administration linked to archives, diaries and so on. Why, then, should citizens and the media not be transparent about this? Why did you vote against when we raised the issue of the principle of public access in committee?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-90	Madam President, I would like The lack of time to answer questions may be due to lack of time and nothing else. Gunilla Svantorp knows that very well. Now I have to be quick to get the answers in one minute. As far as free schools and tax funding are concerned, this is a quasi-debate. There is no party in this Parliament that does not want transparency. What is at issue here is the principle of public access, which deals with other things, not least for the schools run in corporate form. If Gunilla Svantorp does not want schools in corporate form, be clear about it and say it straight out! Don't hide this in some disguised public policy discussion! We all want transparency here, just as we have had all these years. That's the bottom line. But again, talk to us, and maybe we'll find solutions! When it comes to student composition, I think Gunilla Svantorp is making a big mistake. More or less, she says that low expectations apply to students in exclusion areas. We don't share that view.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-93	Madam President, I would like Until Patrick Reslow came to the budget, which is really at the heart of this debate, I thought it was lovely Christmas music for a liberal school politician. He spoke of state authority, order, and respect for the teachers. Ten-year primary school I don't know if he mentioned, but he talked about the focus on knowledge, increased teacher qualifications and so on. These are quite liberal reforms that we have been pursuing for many years, including in the framework of current intergovernmental cooperation. But, Madam President, when the Swedish Democrats claim to be investing in the school system in this budget, I do not – in view of the Timss debate – get the math together. The Swedish democrats take away SEK 6.23 billion from preschool and primary school in their proposal. On the whole, Madam President, when you add up and sum up the whole of today's budget table, the Swedish Democrats are taking 1.3 billion away from the state's school budget and education budget for next year. How the hell does this calculation add up? In what way do you invest more in the school system than is done in the current proposal that this House has to deal with, Patrick Reslow? I agree with most of what was said. I do not believe that the issue of free school is crucial. This is not the most important issue, but the most important one is fundamental quality problems, basic problems of teacher training and lack of order and education at school. But many of the necessary investments cost money. Then how can you save this grant, Patrick Reslow?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-97	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Roger Haddad thinks we agree on a great many things. There are many points of contact. This also allows Roger Haddad and I to have a constructive discussion about what is needed in Swedish school. I am in favour of that. I look forward to having one of those. I also hope that Roger Haddad will now be able to resist when the pressure from the left parties is as strong as it is. This applies not least to these investigations, which may have devastating consequences for freedom of choice in schools and for free schools, especially the small ones. As far as Roger Haddad's question is concerned, it is right that we want to abolish the equivalence premium, which in pure money means SEK 6.23 billion. What Roger Haddad has not taken into account is our efforts in other areas of expenditure. In Category 25 General grants to municipalities, we propose huge investments in several different things to strengthen welfare. That amount also includes money for the school. The sum total is not that we spend less money on the school. On the contrary, we spend more money on school than the government does. It is just that it may not be visible in this particular area of expenditure. Some money the government spends here, we have chosen to spend in other places. The reason we do this is because we do not believe in this type of grant, which is governed by a project idea that is not long-term. Instead, we want this money to be given directly to the municipalities and used. Even if we want a government headship, Roger Haddad, it is after all that the school today is municipal, and then we have to deal with it.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-100	Madam President, I would like No one has been pushing the issue of state authority for as long as we have. We've done it from day one. On 8 December 1989, the House decided, with four five votes, to municipalize the school. It was a huge failure. We continue to pursue this towards the Social Democratic Government. The question remains. On the total – even if you put a few billion here or there – the sum total is minus 1.3 billion on the education budget. It's a saving in the education sector, Patrick Reslow. In addition, I would advise against sending billions of billions to the municipalities in the hope that they will invest in school. We have problems with unauthorized teachers, cancelled lessons and substitutes. You remove peripheral resources. They even dismiss qualified trained teachers. In fact, this money can be used by municipalities and primary schools as they please. For example, they can hire special teachers or more teachers. But this you take away, Patrick Reslow.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-102	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad is wrong. You cannot just look at this budget and say that we are cutting down by 1.3 billion in total when we choose to transfer certain costs to a grant to the municipalities. It'll be dishonest to say it. I am surprised that Roger Haddad is driving this as hard as he is. You still think he's been around for so long that he should know that if you pull down 1.3 billion in one place and put up maybe 3, 4, 5 or 6 billion in another place it will be plus. He should be successful in that math. Roger Haddad will have to go home and read about what we are actually proposing in Category 25. Regarding the defence of the equivalence contribution: It is true that all these things might be a solution. But we are not sure that all the money will be spent on this. We believe that much will disappear in the administration of applications and subsequent reports of the grant. Then we won nothing. There are other things that solve the equivalence problems in Swedish schools.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-104	Madam President, I would like Since Parliament's decision of 25 November 2020 in the first stage of the budgetary process gave budgetary policy a completely different direction from the one we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the state's budget for Category 16. Instead, we have presented a specific opinion. We therefore have no reservation. Madam President, I would like My former party leader Lars Werner wrote the following in 1991, and I share his view: However, the Left Party believes that despite this, the school can function much more fairly than today and provide all students with an equal education and a level playing field for adult life. ..................................................... It is interesting that this quote is as valid today as it was in the 1990s – or perhaps even more. It is therefore also worrying that a policy of cutbacks is taking place in the majority of the country's municipalities in relation to school and that the government does not compensate enough to plug the holes that exist at the moment and that are urgent. Madam President, I would like In an open letter published by Expressen on November 17, the teacher Filippa Mannerheim wrote the following: I am a Swedish citizen. I'm a teacher. I'm a parent. And I am deeply concerned about the future of Swedish schools. The Swedish school has been subjected to a world-unique experiment. In the rest of the world, it is absurd that public limited liability companies can make unregulated profits from tax revenue. Nevertheless, in Sweden, year after year, we donate hundreds of millions of SEK to shareholders in corporate groups – money intended for our children's education. ..................................................... The respective responses of the government parties contained a great deal of self-criticism, which I appreciate, and apparently a willingness to be with us and push the questions harder. The Liberal party leader wrote a reply which briefly showed that the Liberals are neither a teacher's party nor a school party. She also called on one of the country's heroes, that is, teachers, whose daily work ensures the survival of our democracy, that is, what the teaching profession does, to engage in democracy. That's what Nyamko Sabuni said in an article. In their reply, the Swedish Democrats said that Filippa Mannerheim and all the thousands of teachers who have committed themselves to stopping the market school are trying to breathe life into the only school issue that interests and engages the poor left. Their spokesperson also expressed that he absolutely does not want a socialist school system. The question then arises, of course: Do all countries in the world except Sweden have socialist school systems? Why do you ask yourself this question is because Sweden is the only country in the world where it has made it legal for public limited companies to start schools and pick out millions of profits from tax funds without any restrictions. The issue is topical in many ways, partly from the point of view of principle and democracy, and partly from an economic point of view. We therefore agree with Filippa and all other teachers who take a stand against the marketing school. We note that in a short period of time 16,800 people have signed the appeal against the marketing school, which is gratifying. Madam President, I would like When I came to Sweden and Falun in 2000 I went in third grade. My first school was called Främbyskolan, where I went up to sixth grade. It was a fantastic school with fantastic staff. At that time, the market school and thinking had not been able to get the stronghold that they have had today. I wasn't seen as a customer in a market. The headmaster, the teachers and the rest of the staff didn't have to fight for school money with profit-making private schools, because they barely existed. The children of the chief physician and the postman went to the same school. The children of the refugee and the children of the native Swede sat at the same school bench. It wasn't all perfect. J equality and equivalence were already on the way to decline in Swedish school. But the fact was that Swedish school was still among the more equal and equal in the world. It's something we're no longer near. Today, children with different socio-economic backgrounds do not meet in the same way at school. They are seen as customers in a market, and even municipal schools have to compete with market logic to get enough students and therefore funding. This is not a sustainable system. The fact that we are fighting to eliminate profit interests, profit withdrawals and marketing school is not about turning back the clock. It is about ensuring the right of all children to knowledge and education. It's about the future of society. It's about democracy. In order to create an equal preschool and school, the education system needs to be freed from business activities and discriminatory school choices. The Left Party therefore wants a jointly funded and democratically managed preschool and school where it is the needs that govern the allocation of resources. An equal education system also provides every child and pupil with good opportunities to develop and meet their needs. Let's not let the kids down. They deserve better. Madam President, I would like During this pandemic, preschool teachers and teachers have struggled week in and week out to ensure that our society works despite the pandemic. By caring for the children of individuals who work with various social demands, they have ensured that our welfare can keep going and be well-functioning. But there's a lot of things that worry me. Sickness rates increased even before the pandemic, and they continue to increase further. Especially in the lower ages, we can see how preschool teachers are worn out because of too large children's groups already before the pandemic. Today, too, they are overloaded by the fact that a very large number of staff are ill, and so there is a higher burden on those who remain. In its draft budget, the Left Party has allocated a larger budget to the educational system than any other party. Among other things, we have invested 2 billion in a targeted investment in preschool and half a billion in recreation centres. We have, among other things, made an investment of 1 billion in staff investments at primary level and 300 million for free course literature in adult education. But much more needs to be done. There is a need for a system shift in Swedish schools. We need a change that is a system change and not that we year after year into the Swedish Parliament patch and laws to deal with the problems that exist. The problems are bigger than that.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-123	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Daniel Riazat is talking about preschool. Preschool is incredibly important. It is also the foundation of the school. I certainly share Daniel Riazats's desire to talk more about preschool and how we can help to remedy some of the problems that are now present. Last Friday I stood here and talked to Anna Ekström about that we have 263 preschools that do not have a single preschool teacher employed. It's troubling. I now look hopefully at the proposal that we Moderates have put forward that the mission of the entire preschool, the skills needs and the need for recruitment should be investigated rather than just year after year adding more tasks and not discussing how it can be carried out at all. That part is entirely agreed between me and Daniel Riazat. I look forward to further discussions. But then we come to primary school. Then Daniel Riazat only talks about the need for a change of system, Madam President. Then he talks about limited companies, profits and marketing school. But not with a single word does Daniel Riazat tell us how to deal with 600 school classes leaving grade 9 each year without upper secondary school qualifications and without an approved degree. I would like to hear how Daniel Riazat and the Left Party intend to solve the problems we have in Swedish school. What does a system shift mean as a solution to ensure that children finish school with full grades?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-127	Madam President, I would like When you see for a number of decades that there are system errors, you make sure to change the system. That is what it looks like in all areas. This applies in our private lives, including in working life, and this also applies in politics. We see that ever since the 1990s, equivalence and equality have declined in the Swedish school. When we also have a report after a report, research after research, which shows why this is the case and why more students are not making it today, we must return to what is the main problem, that is to say, the system errors. There are, of course, a number of different initiatives in addition to this which the Left Party also wants to see. We want to nationalise the school, we want to stop discriminatory school elections and much more. But there is something that basically all researchers and every institute that has gone through Swedish school in modern times say in common, and that is that it is the market thinking and the school election system that forms the segregation and makes you not get equal rights to a good and equal education. This, I mean, is a system error, and this is what the scientists mean, is a system error. The only ones left in the debate who still do not recognise that the school's main problem is precisely this system error are the parties that must defend their party colleagues who sit in these corporate groups. Among other things, Kristina Axén Olin.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-131	Madam President, I would like It would be very interesting to discuss with Daniel Riazat for a long time how to nationalise the school. Who's gonna set the wages? Who's gonna pay the local rents? What are we going to do with a school grant that differs one hundred percent and a student health that differs one thousand percent in Sweden? Perhaps we could spend a few hours discussing that one day, because I can have full respect for such a desire. But I don't think it's feasible. What would be interesting to talk about here and now is equality, equality and equality in school, when Daniel Riazat blames the reform of the school for increasing school segregation. I remember what it was like in the 80s and in the early 90s when only those who were rich in Sweden could choose a free school and a private school. There was no equality then, and there was no equivalence when those who could pay extra could choose a different school than the nearest school. Today, half of the children in Järvafältet choose a different school from the nearest municipal school – half of the children. Is that a threat to equivalence?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-135	Madam President, I would like I would just like to inform Kristina Axén Olin that the Left Party will still allow school elections, because we want to see that there are non-profit free schools left in the system. On the other hand, it is about the structure of the system. We see that the school elections today lead to a great segregation. This is nothing new to Kristina Axén Olin; this is what the Moderates know. This debate is, in fact, simply about knowing at the moment that there is an enormous debate going on in society where the majority of the people, including the Conservatives, know that this is a problem. Then one must take the focus away from the important problems. It is quite clear from the Left Party that segregation and inequality in Swedish schools must be countered. We have the proposals to deal with it, and the Moderates do not. I welcome what Kristina Axén Olin said in the first speech on a major pre-school inquiry. I'd like to see that.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-139	Madam President, I would like I heard Daniel Riazat say that the Left Party wants to retain the school elections. I therefore wonder whether the Left Party is saying no to Mr Åstrand's proposal to reduce school allowances to independent schools. That was the first question. The second question I would like to ask is about the debate on drawbacks. It is an issue that the Left Party has been going on about for quite some time, and they have also met with opposition in this Parliament. It would nevertheless be a good thing if Daniel Riazat could make it clear to us and to the viewers how much of the total school cost in the country constitutes the operating margin of the first free schools and, secondly, any profit withdrawals. It would be good if we had those figures clear on our share, i.e. as a percentage, of the total amount of money spent on school in the country. What is the share of the operating margin of the free schools, and then profit, so that we have the proportions clear?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-142	Madam President, I would like Patrick Reslow begins his whole question by talking about Björn Åstrand's investigation into the Left Party's position, which we have had for a very long time. It shows that Patrick Reslow has not even read the proposal from Björn Åstrand, because it does not in any way contain proposals that prevent school elections. When it comes to funding, it is a question of free schools being overcompensated today and should therefore receive lower funding. Before the Swedish Democrats were conceived as a parliamentary party, virtually all parties in the Swedish Parliament agreed that 85 per cent were to be compensated for independent schools. Then some parties turned the issue around, and there was 100% funding. I think it is very reasonable that, as has been done in Björn Åstrand's investigation, together with serious researchers, develop the basis needed to be able to propose changes in the funding of Swedish schools. I particularly welcome the proposal from Björn Åstrand to reduce funding for free schools. We know that free schools do not have the same social responsibility as municipal schools. You are not obliged to accept pupils in the same way as municipal schools are, and you are not obliged to have administrations in the same way that municipal schools still have to be involved in funding. When it comes to the question of the school elections themselves, it is nothing new. The Left Party has always said that we are in favour of non-profit free schools, and then it must be possible to go to these schools. It is simply a matter of not having the segregated school elections that we have today.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-147	Madam President, I would like It is not the large free schools that will suffer if funding is changed. It is all the small free schools that are affected; it will hit them hard. There are two roads. Either you make this funding change and you knock away the legs of the free schools. Is this what the Left Party thinks about when discussing this? Or does the Left Party want back a situation where you should be able to make an addition to the school money, i.e. that you should charge a fee from the students? Is this what the Left Party wants? One cannot talk about maintaining school elections and still pursuing a policy that will throw away a very large part of the small free schools that live on the margins and that do not take profit. What is interesting is that Daniel Riazat ducks for the second question: How much of the total school cost in the country is the operating margin and profit of free schools? I don't think Daniel Riazat wants to talk about this, because he already knows the answer. It is an extremely, extremely marginal cost.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-151	Madam President, I would like To be honest, I don't have that number in my head. I also do not sit in conjunction with welfare lobbyists often enough to remember it right now. When it comes to the question of the small free schools and that they would be excluded, we can then say this: I am putting forward a proposal tomorrow which means that the group schools will receive less funding. Do the Swedish democrats agree to that? The answer is no. So these are just empty words, for the Swedish democrats have never protected the smaller free schools. The Swedish Democrats have only protected those organisations and companies that also made sure that the Swedish Democrats changed their feet and changed their position on the issue of profits in welfare 2015, nothing else. The Swedish Democrats are not on the side of children and students. The Swedish democrats are on the market side.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-154	Madam President, I would like The school's task is to convey knowledge, to stimulate pupils' intellectual development and to prepare children and young people for adulthood. The school also has an educational assignment. Formation is much about knowledge for the person's own inner development and maturity and leads to an increased understanding of himself and the outside world. It's not just about studying raw data, for example, for a test or to get into an education. Unfortunately, the Swedish school is not in top shape, although the Minister for Education speaks of a decision of strength for Swedish school. When Swedish students began participating in the Timss surveys in 1995 of students' knowledge of mathematics and science, their performance was well above the OECD average. However, over a period of years, the results declined, leading to the alliance government starting from day one, when it took office in 2006, a major reform effort which in 2010 resulted in a new curriculum for primary school. In the 2015 survey, when the new curriculum had been in use for five years – you might say four years, because it takes some time to implement everything – you could already see that the results were of direct importance upwards. This is a trend which, unfortunately, had levelled in the survey that we had to report to us last week. In science, students performed in the latest survey of the OECD average, but in mathematics they are still below. Both subjects are far from achieving the results achieved by Swedish pupils, their peers, in 1995. To this can be added that every fourth student leaves comprehensive school with a failed grade in some or some subjects. Sixteen per cent of the students lack approved grades in so many subjects that they do not qualify for upper secondary school. Not enough of that. The school has problems with lack of equivalence. In some schools, most students pass grades, in others only a quarter. This cannot be described in any other word than failure. What do the Christian Democrats want to do to enable all students to pass approved results? Being out of school with approved grades is the key to further studies and working life. It is also by far the strongest protection against exclusion. That is why we need to put all the effort into reversing today's situation. Many studies have found that teaching by skilled teachers is the best way for students to reach the goals of teaching. There is much evidence that the decline in the performance of recent decades in the Swedish school can be explained by a decrease in teacher-led teaching. Swedish pupils receive less teacher-led education than students in other OECD countries. Swedish students are guaranteed 6,890 hours of education during comprehensive school. This is almost 10% less than the OECD average of 7 538 hours. Added is the phenomenon of teacherless lessons, which further erodes teaching time. We need to reverse this trend. Above all, it is important for teachers to have time for teaching. The Christian Democrats therefore propose special funds – SEK 260 million – for more teacher-led teaching. As there is currently a shortage of qualified teachers, the funds can initially be used to organise more places for academics with subject qualifications that need to complement the pedagogical part. The funds can also be used to co-finance unauthorised teachers so that they can make a supplement to become eligible. Madam President, I would like All children and young people are different. The Christian Democrats believe that it is important for pupils in need of special support to be able to receive education adapted to their needs, in terms of both group size and teacher competence, rather than being integrated at all costs into the regular school. With greater access to specialist educators and teachers, it would be possible to organise the school in a more flexible way. One could do as in Finland, which the committee has visited. It would be natural for a large proportion of the pupils of and to, some lessons a week, to be part of a special group for teaching. This may be the case both for those who need special support in order to have sufficient challenges and those who need more support in order to meet the objectives and requirements of education at all. Unfortunately, there has long been a shortage of special teachers and special educators. Due to future retirements and a large proportion of those who work with special educational support, the current shortage will increase. The Christian Democrats therefore allocate SEK 230 million for skills development for these categories of personnel. Another reason why many do not meet the school's knowledge requirements is that the student has a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language. In order to further strengthen the importance of the Swedish language, it is proposed to train Swedish teachers in Swedish as a second language with an investment of SEK 150 million. Madam President, I would like A large part of a child's development is established in the early years of the child. The Christian Democrats believe that parents should be able to choose the care that is best for their children. There must be well-developed childcare facilities with different options. Childcare should be of high quality and the size of children's groups should be reduced. There is a lot of research about the connection for small children. The youngest children need small groups – the Swedish National Agency for Education has as its benchmark a six to twelve children – with a few permanent adults to connect to. In larger groups of children with many different adults there is a high risk of developing insecurity. The other week I had the privilege of listening to child psychologist Anders Broberg, professor emeritus at the University of Gothenburg. He was part of the research group for the large longitudinal research that is behind much of the knowledge that exists about different types of Swedish childcare effects on children. It is positive that there are general guidelines on the size of children's groups and that state subsidies are given to those principals who reduce them. I think that few of us at all grasp how much today's overcrowded pre-school groups, with pre-school teachers and child care workers and a pre-school uprising with which we are all in contact, differ from the situation in the 1970s when research began. The study includes 150 children: 50 in day care, as it was then called, 50 in day care, that is, today's family day care home, and 50 children were at home with one parent or both parents who relieved each other. Anders Broberg told us that a preschool that was to be included in the experiment reorganised, when they thought it was too many children. There were 12 children in four adults in the group. So they divided the group into two parts with six children in each group. That's how much it's different today. Many groups also go far beyond this. The Christian Democrats therefore want to legislate on a maximum number of children in preschool children's groups. We want to break the trend and add extra money to the state budget. We want the municipalities to do a lot of shooting. We also believe that parents are certainly prepared to contribute a little more by raising the maximum rate. Sweden's children and young people and everyone who works to give them the opportunity to develop to their full potential deserve better.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-173	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Gudrun Brunegård. In August, the Member was asked by the School World newspaper. It sounded like this: are you of the opinion that the principle of public access should also apply to independent schools that are tax-funded? 中 To this question Gudrun Brunegård answered yes. I therefore wonder why Gudrun Brunegård voted against when the proposal on the principle of public access was tabled in the Education Committee.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel, for giving me the opportunity to clarify this. I put it sloppyly. I'll admit it. I am imperfect, and I answered the question carelessly. But if you had read the rest of the answer, where I developed it, you would have seen that I was pressing for public information that is the basis for parents' and pupils' school choices. This may include, for example, the size of student groups, the results of national tests and the results of the grades. This applies to information which is public today, but which, unfortunately, became confidential for a period of time. I also described what other speakers have done during the day, namely that there is other legislation for schools that are subject to company law, for example. There's a very strict corporate secrecy that you don't solve as easily as you want. What I stressed in the overall answer was that we need to find a way to get past the confidentiality of the data necessary to compare the results and quality of different schools and to safeguard the continuing right to choose schools.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-179	Madam President, I would like I wish what Gudrun Brunegård just said were true, but I have read the honourable Member's reply in the School world, and there it just said yes and nothing else. So there was no reasoning to which Gudrun Brunegård is currently trying to refer. We know, and the National Agency for Education has said it itself, that the proposal that the government has made on temporary solutions is not really desirable. They have also said that they want to see the principle of public access. The National Association of Idea-borne Schools has said that they want to see the principle of public access. The teachers' unions have said that they want to see the principle of public access. Gudrun Brunegård has also said that she wants to see the principle of public access, but then it was still a no from the Christian Democrats. I still do not understand why Gudrun Brunegård voted against the principle of public access.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-182	Madam President, I would like It is possible that the result in the School world was based on an article from Altinget and that it was where the more detailed reasoning was. Whatever the case, it is the attitude of the Christian Democrats and my view that, as the principle of public access looks like, with all the consequential effects that it would have on smaller schools, it is very difficult to introduce it directly. The proposal for a confidentiality-breaking rule put forward by the government provides for what we need to give pupils and parents the opportunity to choose and for us politicians to be able to see and compare the performance of different schools in order to put pressure on some and give extra funds to some people so that they can give the students the best conditions.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-185	Madam President, I would like 2020 is the year when most of it is cancelled or moved forward. It is the year that creates a lot of anxiety, fear and even sorrow in some. It's the year when many in occupations where you can't work from home are working very hard. We see it in preschool, we see it in school, we see it in cleaning, we see it in bus traffic – we see it in many different sectors. They work for all of us. It's only together that we can do this that we're in right now. I would like to send a greeting and a thank you to all those who really work together for all of us! We stand here to debate the budget for 2021, in particular Category 16, which deals with education and university research. The focus is on increased learning outcomes, more qualified teachers, improved skills provision, better education opportunities across the country and investment in research and innovation to meet societal challenges and to relaunch the economy. We have seen throughout the year that we have done a lot of things to perhaps face the consequences of the pandemic in particular. For example, we have twelve or even thirteen amending budgets, most of which have come out in good agreement and in agreement that we have to do this right now. Since 2016, we have expanded the knowledge boost to include a little more than 144,000 places today. These are new and important training places for those who now need to switch to the pandemic. We have invested resources so that today we have 33 600 more people working in school – important adults who are there for children and young people. We have a lot to be proud of. We have an amazing staff who every day meets the children's thirst for knowledge at school. We have fourth graders and fifteen-year-olds who stand well in international comparisons. Every year we invest heavily in education, research and innovation. That's good. However, we also have major challenges, not least what you have heard in our debate so far, namely what concerns the lack of equivalence. What family you were born in plays a big role in the results you achieve. We have a large and increasing segregation that we think is due to a system error that we need to correct. We also have a lack of teachers, which is perhaps the most serious of all. We are constantly trying to correct precisely what is about equivalence. We are introducing various things: the equivalence grant, which is perhaps the largest and most important, Collaboration for best schooling, strengthening state support for better language development in preschool, strengthening to increase literacy, massive increase in state support for schools with the greatest challenges and targeted initiatives for better working environment and better working conditions. All of this and more makes a difference. But that's not enough. We can see that. The School Commission was appointed last term of office. It was good researchers who went in depth, who analysed, who had long, deep discussions and who finally agreed on which path Sweden needs to go in order for us to do something about the lack of equivalence and the increasing segregation. After this, we have appointed the investigation with Björn Åstrand on the same theme. However, it was barely presented before some were out and completely sawed it. You can really consider whether those who do so have read the investigation. I can only tell you about reading it, because it's good. There are very good background materials and many good problem formulations that we need to think about, regardless of which party we belong to. The Kliva investigation was presented the other day. It is about improved quality and equivalence in komvux for students with Swedish as a second language. There are also many good proposals that we need to think about. What, then, is missing? Yes, there is a lack of a common problem description. I and many with me see the greatest challenge: the fact that we cannot give a similar answer to important questions. Why do we have a school in our country? What should we have our jointly funded welfare for? If you are interested and go back to reading studies that have shaped previous reforms in our country, you can see that there are some underlying thoughts behind the modern school that we have today, even if it is not working right now. One of the main ideas was that children from different backgrounds should meet in school. The second basic idea was to avoid early sorting based on family background. Do we have that school today? No, I really don't think we do. What prevents it? We all know that. It's a system failure. Then you can talk that system error away if you want, but it's a system error. Today we have a school election that sort children. We have a distribution of resources that is claimed to be fair but segregated. We have a school where children's and young people's results have become business secrets. We have a school where resourceful homes can opt out of other children. They can opt out of what has been the very purpose of the school: meeting children from other backgrounds to increase understanding of differences and to learn to respect other people. We have a school that, instead of interacting around the important purpose of education and education, is forced into a competitive situation and competition. It is because we have allowed a market thinking into something that is not actually a real market. Both our common tax money and too many children leave school. It's a fucked-up system. The money ends up in the shareholders' pockets, the children who fail in school meet an uncertain future – and we are talking about something completely different. I mean, we need to meet around the same table. We need to turn and turn all the stones and look at everything that investigations, the School Commission's research and Björn Åstrand and many more developed for us. We need to implement the main features of what has come to light. Then, of course, we need to turn it on so that it becomes really good. We need to do this for the sake of our children and for the sake of our common, publicly funded society. With this, I support the proposal.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-203	Madam President, I would like Gunilla Svantorp speaks warmly for Björn Åstrand's investigation. I have also read Björn Åstrand's investigation, and I can assure Gunilla Svantorp that we agree on the problem picture described in the investigation. However, Björn Åstrand does not come up with any suggestions on how to deal with all the schools that do not perform. I would like to hear how Gunilla Svantorp and the Social Democrats look at Bengtsgården in Bengtsfors, Maserskolan, Viskaforsskolan, Fittjaskolan, Karsby International School, Gullstensskolan, Stora Sätraskolan, Gårdstensskolan, Gamlestadsskolan, Nytorpsskolan in Gothenburg, Utmarksskolan, Vättleskolan, Dalhemsskolan, Norretullskolan, Fuxernaskolan, Sofielundsskolan, Bäckahagensskolan, Farsta elementary school, Hagsätraskolan, Hökarängsskolan, Lillholmsskolan, Nivrenaskolan, Ronnaskolan, Hovsjöskolan, Sylteskolan, Ersängsskolan, Västerholms friskolan and Katolska school of Notre Dame. All these schools – and it's not just them, but actually even more – have now decided to inspect themselves after ten years of trouble so that less than half of the children reach the knowledge goals. Björn Åstrand has not, in a word, touched on how this should be resolved in the investigation. I would like to hear what solution the Social Democrats have. How are we going to deal with these schools so that they are so good that they also have a queue?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-207	Madam President, I would like With that post, Kristina Axén Olin showed that she has not read Björn Åstrand's investigation, because this is exactly what he keeps talking about. It is those schools that fail because of the composition of students, because of the system error, because of what I said in the speaker's seat just now – that children no longer meet in school but are divided up. I think it's a little rude to stand here and say things when you haven't even read it. I do not understand how the Moderates can defend a system that allows children to be divided and that allows money that we spend together on our common school to only be flown out – even out of our country they are being flown. It is more important for the Moderates that we retain the form of the limited company, that we retain the company's thinking and that we retain the marketing school than that we look at all these 16 000 children that Mrs. Kristina Axén Olin talks about in all the contributions to the debate. I have never yet heard Kristina Axén Olin come up with a proposal on how to change the system, because it is clear that this is a system error. How do the Moderates want to change the system so that the 16 000 children – and their teachers, who are working very hard – can also get a chance to move on in life? If Kristina Axén Olin has any suggestions, I would like to hear them.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-211	Madam President, I would like We have 50 million more for the School Inspectorate. We want to introduce quality measurements. We have more money for career teacher systems. We have more money for Vice-Chancellor's efforts in alienation areas. We have several hundred proposals, but I am happy to come here twenty more times today and explain them. It is interesting to hear Gunilla Svantorp's solution for schools that I read out, where not even half of the students can pass after grade 9. The solution that you Social Democrats advocate is to move the decision from the kitchen tables at home with families where you choose school. Instead, we are going to quota children, move children, bus children and lotteries children to involve other students in these bad schools, because then those schools would be good. It doesn't help that more children go to bad schools. We need to lift these schools or close them or come up with a solution to how they're going to be good. It doesn't help anything to force all children to go to a bad school.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-214	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the party leaders of the Moderates said in their Christmas speech:a real prevention is to take care of your own children, but also to care about other people's children. ..................................................... I think that's pretty wise. It's just that when you keep fighting for a system that pushes out a lot of children, you don't take responsibility for other people's children. Then you only take responsibility for your own children, for them to have the right to choose, and not for the children who do not have the right to choose because the sex became full even before they came to that municipality or moved or whatever they have done. I cannot ask a question, but if I could have asked Kristina Axén Olin a question, I would have sent that we are the only country in the world that has this system. Why do the bourgeois parties not think a little more about why we have the system we have?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-217	Madam President, I would like Since she likes talking systems so much, I thought I would ask Gunilla Svantorp if she sees any problem with that there are long processes for, for example, a free school that wants to increase the number of places in municipalities. In fact, a municipal school can increase the number of places best it wants. The municipality can build new schools and so on. But when a free school is going to increase the number of places, or want to do so, it usually encounters resistance from the municipalities. Is this what generates queue problems in some municipalities? Could that be? When it comes to bushing and drawing, I heard Gunilla Svantorp say that they do not propose bushing. At the same time it is clearly in favour of quotas because it refers to Åstrand's investigation. We have had a situation in Gothenburg and now have a situation in Trollhättan where you buses students, where nine-year-olds are allowed to travel all over the city to get to their school. Is this the solution for Gunilla Svantorp? Should we have nine-year-olds bused to school all over town and snatched away from their schoolmates and the like? Is that better? Is that the essence of this social mixture? I do not believe that solution, but it would be interesting to hear Gunilla Svantorp's reaction. If it is the case that the school sort, as Gunilla Svantorp says, why do the Social Democrats want school elections in the first place? I put the question to Gunilla Svantorp just like I did to Daniel Riazat. How can the proposed change in the funding of free-schools be reconciled with ensuring that free-schools actually remain?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-224	Madam President, I would like I think the first question that Patrick Reslow asked was interesting – the one that it is so difficult for free schools to expand. Actually, that's not what it looks like. It is four times more common for free schools to apply for new establishments than for them to apply for an extension of their school. You can think about how that happened. It may of course have to do with the fact that if a school is big enough, children from all the different socio-economic backgrounds will come there, and then perhaps not so much profit can be made. Perhaps it is better to have a small unit so that it is still possible to make a profit at the school. I think we should be honest in this debate. Not many people get no, but instead want to start new schools. Patrick Reslow does not want to talk about the challenge that research report after research report shows and which the OECD reports to us year after year. Equivalence is flawed – not all children in our school system get the same chance. Patrick Reslow doesn't want to talk about that. We have seen that Patrick Reslow and his party want to divide up children, preferably by origin and depending on where they come from. I and my party do not want such a system. We want a school system that is about what was the original idea – a school system where children meet at school and where children get a chance to get respect for differences and to meet those they do not meet at home. Patrick Reslow doesn't want that; it's obvious.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-229	Madam President, I would like Surely we do; nothing we have said would resist such a thought. However, we believe that the efforts should be made where they are needed. It is not the system itself that is wrong, it is what is happening inside the system. We believe that not enough effort has been made to ensure that the newly arrived students have mastered the Swedish language. If students are drawn into the classes far too early, it is clear that they cannot assimilate the teaching in the same way. The problems of qualified teachers, the attractiveness of the teaching profession, the role of the vice-chancellor and so on require strong efforts both in terms of legislation and in terms of regulations and general advice. As regards the establishment of free-schools and the expansion of activities, I can say, thank God, that the Social Democrats do not have the last word on the municipal veto they want. We know what it looks like in Social Democratic municipalities; there you say no to every free school expansion that exists.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-233	Madam President, I would like This is a clear debate in which we really stand on different sides. I find that regrettable. The school would feel very good if we sat around the same table and tried to discuss and at least find the same problem formulation. But when Patrick Reslow says it's within the system that it gets wrong, we don't even have the same problem formulation. I really find that regrettable. Just as Daniel Riazat lifted up here, we see many thousands of those standing in the classrooms every day protesting against the system. They do not object to what is happening in the classroom, but protest against the system that does not give them the opportunity to be their very best self, whether it is about teachers or students. I hope that Patrick Reslow and the Swedish Democrats will change their minds and think that the children are more important than the limited companies.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-236	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. We are currently in a very special time. 2020 is a year like nothing else. The Corona crisis affects the whole of society, not least the school system. First of all, I would like to thank all teachers, pupils, school leaders, preschool teachers, researchers and students for the flexibility and adaptability they have shown during the coronapandemine and for being able to change quickly in this very special time. Thank you! Madam President, I would like If you listen to this debate, you can easily forget that it is actually about the budget and category 16, where we are making very important efforts to restart the economy and invest in education so that more children will be met by qualified staff in preschool and to catch up with more children so that they will have a chance to attend preschool and get a good start there. The budget has proposals that give more people the chance to complete comprehensive school and more education leading to work. This is incredibly important in the situation that we are seeing in the labour market today, where many people are given short-term leave, noticeable or unemployed or are not given the chance to enter the labour market at all. Investing in education is a key to facing the crisis. In addition, major efforts are being made in research as well as in innovation. This is also important for Sweden to emerge stronger from this crisis. In preschool, an additional SEK 100 million is being invested to capture more children and strengthen children's language development in preschool. We know that language is a key to being able to take on other knowledge and to be able to take advantage of the education in a good way. There are investments in schooling, homework and reading. The School Inspectorate receives funds to be able to work with and follow up that all schools are good schools, which is a key. A school billion is included in the budget to increase teaching time and ensure that staff reinforcements take place and to improve the conditions for those staff who are currently working incredibly hard. In addition, there is a special focus on schools in vulnerable areas. This is also a key – in order to cope with developments in Sweden and to strengthen the school, the schools with the most difficult conditions must be given better opportunities, especially in order for the students who attend these schools to have better opportunities to leave comprehensive school with full grades. Madam President, I would like The individual's freedom of choice is a central part of the Swedish welfare model. There is therefore a need for a variety of actors and good conditions for individually driven welfare activities that facilitate the active choices of individuals. This is a key element of the January Agreement. However, over the past year we have seen problems when it comes to school statistics and how the new review in courts has done so that statistics have not become available. This is a problem when it comes to following the results in Swedish schools but also for parents and students when choosing a school. The Centre Party has therefore pushed for the temporary solution that is now being consulted to solve the problem so that statistics can be made available again. There is also an investment in the budget of 10 million for the Swedish National Agency for Education to have resources and conditions to republish statistics and make it available. It is a key for Swedish school and for Swedish freedom of choice. Transparency and transparency should increase, not decrease. Madam President, I would like The labour market situation has deteriorated significantly by covid-19. This increases the need for training throughout the country, and a number of efforts are being made in the current budget to get more training to work. For the Center Party, it is important that there be more training efforts; it is a key for those companies that, before the crisis, shouted for skills. We see it both in the private and in the public sector, with a shortage of teachers, nurses, nannys, etc. The budget includes a number of major increases in the number of professionals so that more people can get a job through vocational education and training at upper secondary level. Folk high schools were invested in one of the additional amending budgets presented this year. It also introduces an opportunity for employers to invest in training for short-term workers to use the time spent by people during short-term leave to strengthen their skills so that both the employees and the company are better equipped after the crisis. The University of Applied Sciences' offer is also improved in the budget under discussion today. It is a key to getting people to work and to managing this transition. This initiative represents a total of 50,000 annual seats in 2021 for the University of Applied Sciences. Investments are being made in short courses and in long courses, precisely to ensure that more of the skills that companies are screaming for come into place. The University of Applied Sciences is a key element here because the courses are designed together with the working life. Not least short courses have a special role to play because people have been given short-term leave. The Center Party has also pushed for the strengthening of the Lärcentrum, so that regardless of where in the country you live, you have the opportunity to take in training courses, for example if you have long commuting distances to places of education. There is also an effort to strengthen the quality of distance education. This is important not least in view of the fact that many training courses during this year have been switched to be conducted at a distance. Madam President, I would like I am the sole participant of the Center Party in this debate. I would therefore like to conclude by talking a little about research and higher education, which is the second round of the committee. In higher education and higher education, a number of educational efforts are also being made precisely to meet the impact of the Corona crisis on the labour market. There are investments in more training places, there are short courses for professionals – linked to what I just raised about the possibility that while you are on short-term leave expand your skills – and that is investment in lifelong learning. There is also a series of initiatives on what the committee often discusses: to ensure that more people can and want to train as teachers, so that more pupils in primary and secondary school will be met by qualified and trained teachers in the fields they read. It is about supplementary education and further training for those who are unauthorized. Madam President, I would like On Thursday, the research policy bill will be presented. Ever since Thorbjörn Fälldin in 1982 led the bourgeois government that presented the first research bill, governments have each term delivered a research policy bill focusing on the coming years. I will not go ahead with the events of the forthcoming bill. However, on the basis of the report and the budgetary efforts we are discussing today, I note that next year, especially early in the budgetary period, major efforts are being made on research and innovation in order to ensure that Sweden is better equipped to cope with the crisis. This is, for example, a temporary effort to compensate for reduced revenues for higher education institutions when private financiers due to the pandemic can no longer afford to invest in research and development. But it is also about research infrastructure, basic grants and innovation initiatives. Government investment in research and development is important in the research proposal submitted this week. But it is also important to remember that two thirds of the investments made in research and development are private investments. Ensuring that companies and other financiers have the opportunity and willingness to invest in Sweden is therefore a key. The budget under discussion today, but also other areas of expenditure, includes important efforts to ensure, for example, that expert taxes are improved and R & D deductions are extended. These are keys for Sweden to be strengthened as a knowledge nation. Madam President, I would like The budget that is being discussed today contributes to more people getting a good start in preschool, to giving more people the chance to complete comprehensive school, to more education that leads to jobs and to companies and people being able to change in the pandemic and situation that we are currently in. Important future investments in research and innovation are also being made.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-260	Mr. Old President! Liberals put school and education first, and I would like to start by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved. It is mainly about what state grants we want to give next year to preschool, primary school, upper secondary school, polytechnic and higher education and research. I have had the privilege of going to a good school with calm, study and respect for teachers and a principal who was always present. At the time – it was a number of years ago – they had respect for the teachers and principals. In fact, even parents had respect for the school, for the teachers, and for the principals. I have listened carefully to the previous speakers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and unfortunately I can see that the basic problem in Swedish schools is missing or at risk of missing out, namely the quality of teaching and the increasing proportion of unauthorised teachers. Unfortunately, this contributes to the educational segregation that has been a problem for at least ten years. Many of the appropriations or financial proposals contained in this budget report are another way for the state to enter a system that we believe is not working fully. It's about patching and fixing and sewing another piece of fabric on the patchwork. It is no secret that we in the Liberals were opposed to the municipalization of the school system. This has led to unrealistic and unacceptable differences in quality. This has led to differences in ambition and efforts, and has led to a lack of a level playing field at local level. There may be differences not only between and within municipalities but even within schools. There is nothing more important than that all students, regardless of which school they go to – whether it is an independent or municipal school and regardless of which municipality they live in – meet the best educated and most experienced educators. Research report after research report since at least 2007 confirms this. I have taken part of a doctoral thesis from Uppsala University, and in 2015 a study was conducted at Malmö University that looked at how the teacher's qualification affects the results. So there have been several reports. We may have comments on the basis of the Pisa measurement, but the latest one states that it does not matter how much money we send into the education system. Nor does it have a direct effect on the staff density of a school, but it is the teacher density and the quality, training, qualification and subject competence of the teachers that matters. There is no more important factor. I know that some people want to turn their focus on something else in the school debate, but you also know that the most important factor we can influence in order to improve the quality of teaching and improve the quality of school is the contribution of teachers in the classroom. That is why we are committed to having a good teacher training. That's why we're literally nagging about the need to increase quality, Mr. Old President. Admission requirements need to be tightened up, and throughput needs to be increased. More students need to be examined from teacher training, and the best students need to be attracted to the teaching profession. However, teacher training alone cannot solve the teacher shortage. There is currently no more acute problem in Swedish school than the quality of teaching, which is linked to – and, I would say, directly affect d of – the lack of teachers. 45 000 teachers would have to be recruited in preschool, primary and secondary schools for the next ten or twelve years. Our main problem, if I may lift this up, is preschool and elementary school. Even in preschool, which we have for many years raised as a strong role model also internationally, we are now beginning to see differences in quality. Access to trained staff also differs significantly depending on which district or municipality I happen to have my children in preschool activities. Some of us are parents of young children, and we follow this extremely important activity every day when we leave and pick up our children in preschool. We know how important it is to be educational, to respond and to have an educational leadership in the children's groups – with educated preschool teachers. Here we see that the figure is 40% – 60% of those working in preschool today do not have pre-school education. The proportion of children's nurses is also relatively high, and Lotta Edholm recently presented a study in which she looked at the quality of the children's and leisure programmes and the children's nurse's education. She noted the concern that there was a group of preschool staff who did not have any relevant educational training at all. It must be attacked. That is why we need to get further training, and that is why we need to get the language boost in preschool that the Liberals have been actively working for in this budget. We need to raise the level of language, and we need to raise the children's vocabulary. We must increase participation in pre-school education, not least in the vulnerable areas. This is also why we also focus in primary school and school policy in general on the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas. That is where we have school units with decades of low results. This is where we have a teacher's flight and the vice-chancellor's changes and students who are not allowed to meet the educated, good teachers they are supposed to meet. This is where the educational segregation strikes with full force – conditions, equality and conditions are not the same for those who happen to go to a certain school that happens to be in a certain neighborhood. This is what engages us liberals, and it must also be a focus for Swedish education policy to lift all schools and not just focus on the 15% of students who attend independent schools. We will focus on 100 percent of the school units, and we will focus on the municipal activities that underperform and have under-performed for many years. We need to highlight research into successful schools, where the most important thing is to have a common image and focus. The most important thing is that you have a focus on knowledge and students' conditions and that they get the right support. The second is access to trained, qualified and qualified teachers. I still hear in the educational debate that we want to make it a little easier to become a teacher. They want to create another detour for people to enter teacher education or get a teacher's ID, and they say that it doesn't do much for schools to hire unauthorized teachers. But it has a direct effect on the results and quality, Mr. President of the Age. Liberals will continue to lift up the school and education system, and not only through the extra school billions and the language boost. We will continue to work for the state to take over the headship, because it will seriously increase the equivalence, quality and conditions throughout the country.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-272	Mr. Old President! There has been an extensive and interesting debate so far. Education actually follows you throughout your life and raises many discussions. Everyone has views on how the training is to be carried out. The fact that we do not always agree has come to light here during the debate. Since we do not always agree, I would like to start with the Moderates abstaining from the decision on the state budget under Category 16. Instead, we set out our position in our particular opinion. Mr. Old President! I now move on to education and university research. These are areas that are always relevant, really in any activity. Right now, one can say that it is medical research and vaccine research that is highly topical. Mr. Old President! I myself have had the privilege of studying both at university and at university – an opportunity I wish more people, regardless of their background. To achieve this, it is of course important to have a good school system. As my colleague Kristina Axén Olin explained in the debate, it is very important that the school works, from preschool to primary school and upper secondary school, so that you can reach higher education and universities. I have visited several colleges and universities and intend to continue with it when the pandemic allows. Several universities work together, and many have different directions. This is something that we Moderates want to encourage even more. We also see that the so-called holding companies, which have existed for almost 30 years, continue to develop and improve, in order for research and development from higher education institutions to reach out to society and the business community. We debated this two weeks ago, when the Swedish National Audit Office in a report had come up with stingy criticism of the government for lack of governance and administration. Mr. Old President! For several years, we Moderates have been pushing for digitalization to increase in the field of education. We do not think that the government has given sufficient priority to this. Since last spring, however, there has been a strong situation both in high school and in college and universities. It has put great pressure on lecturers as well as students and students, and of course also on the technical equipment to work. There have been very different quality of teaching, and it can only get better. Many people demand that it must be able to work because this can probably last another period. Of course, the students lack their fellow students, perhaps also their lecturers and not least the activities that are usually associated with higher studies. It has been a trial for many during spring and autumn, and probably it will continue next year as well. There is therefore a lot to be done in this area. The Moderates still want to continue developing distance learning. It is something that is used a lot abroad, for example, and we want to be able to use it even more. Of course, we also want to be able to have physical lectures again. As mentioned earlier, there is a great lack of preschool teachers and teachers. In relation to the Government's proposal, we would like to see an increase of SEK 45 million in special expenditure in universities and higher education institutions. The increase concerns efforts to extend the career service reform to include pre-school teachers, further pathways both to the pre-school profession and to the teaching profession through complementary educational education and an effort to further access to these professions. We propose to invest in Teach for Sweden. Here there are several good examples of people who are, for example, civil engineers and train in pedagogy, and also receive internships during the course, and then be able to teach natural-oriented subjects in exclusion areas. Many good examples have been seen here, and we want to give priority to that. Mr. Old President! We also want to invest SEK 20 million to strengthen the opportunity for students who have not chosen the teacher education from the beginning to still enter the teaching profession. We also want to ensure that we get back to the teaching profession. Unfortunately, very many teachers have left the profession, who may have loved the profession but have seen that it has not worked. We hope to be able to bring these back to the teaching profession. We must also have skilled school principals, especially schools with special challenges. We want to make a special effort on competence development so that these principals will function in these schools and, above all, stay for a long time. A major concern is that principals stay very short in their workplaces. We want to prioritise this so that they stay and have a better working environment. Mr. Old President! Sweden is a small country but a large country when it comes to research and innovation. The Moderates are concerned that the government is not investing enough in quality and excellence in research. We are in danger of being overtaken both nationally and internationally, both from the EU and from the rest of the world. We were some parliamentarians who yesterday were on a panel where we discussed research in Sweden but also in an international perspective. The main message was that the research should be reproducible and transparent. This is something we support on the part of the Moderates. Mr. Old President! A very successful medical research is precisely vaccine research, which I mentioned at the outset. It has made great progress in a short time, as everyone knows. Now it may not go quite as fast as you might think, but it is based on many years of basic research, perhaps up to 20 years of viral research. It has also worked together to achieve the objectives this quickly. Of course, it is amazing that such great results and successes can be achieved in a short time. The Moderates think that viral research is very important, not only about covid-19, but also about other virus forms, and would like to have a national virus research centre. Mr. Old President! We had hoped that the research policy bill had now been presented. We don't really, but almost – we'll have to wait a few more days. However, I know that Minister of Higher Education Matilda Ernkrans is here as the last speaker, so I hope we will get a little more information about the bill than the one that has already leaked. We will, of course, come back with further clarifications of what the Moderates think about research policy. You can get a little impatient when you don't hear it right now, but we are waiting for Matilda Ernkrans to present the bill. We will come back with many more suggestions and views on how Sweden can develop its research policy. Mr. Old President! As I mentioned at the outset, the Moderates refrain from taking a position on the decision on the state budget. We have now presented our special opinion, a report which my colleague Kristina Axén Olin started and which I myself have continued.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-291	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by calling for our reservation in the report, as Patrick Reslow has done. Never before in human history have so many written so much with so little to say – Alvesson and Paulsen, 2017. Last time I stood here in a debate on this subject, I raised the issue of societal relevance to research. Since then, public debaters in books and newspaper articles have raised the same issue, including Hanne Kjöller in his book Kris on the research issue. Of course, it would be hubris if I thought I was the first to pay attention to the problem, but it reinforces my view that more people are addressing exactly the same problem. There are also many in academia who agree with the problem – and of course those who defend existing systems; there is always. The fact is, however, that other nations have overtaken us in terms of research and that we are not getting what we should be, taking into account the money we actually spend on research. The research should be free, but for example, the advice determines which applications should be approved and given funding. Not all applications are granted, regardless of who makes the decisions. Freer than that, research has never been and will never be. The councils, universities and those who decide which projects will receive funding must, we believe, take greater account of societal relevance than is the case today. We believe that it needs to be researched into the challenges facing our society today. When I last skimmed through the Swedish Research Council's calls for applications for this year, my assessment was that the societal relevance has actually increased somewhat, it should be said. But important topics that are obviously not prioritised by the Swedish Research Council are exclusion, gang and clan crime and ways out of crime, just to name a few examples. There are a lot of urgent areas in widely differing disciplines. How does the technology with our computers affect people's blood pressure and well-being? I'd like to know. The research should serve society somewhere, even if you can never know in advance what becomes society-shattering research. There are plenty of examples where someone has produced research results by chance that have become extremely important in time for society and humanity. However, this does not prevent the existence of any limits and any control of research. For example, there may be a point in re-researching in an area where the research question is answered. But it is not reasonable to throw a number of millions at things that have already been researched several times over. Arpi and Wyndhamn also came out with a book during the year where they talked about what I've been going on about here in the speaker's chair a number of times, i.e. this with gender madness in academia. Let me raise an issue which they do not deal with in their book but which I think deserves to be discussed. The form of gender thinking that seems to occur in most of our higher education institutions and represented by the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research is a direct postmodernist theory. Postmodernism and its ramifications in gender science, for example, deny the scientific principles on which our entire higher education system is based, including the Higher Education Act. For example, categories are denied, which already makes most science impossible to carry out. It is believed that language is an instrument of power in its entirety, and it believes that science is really nothing more than oppression practiced by those with power against those who have no power. If we followed these principles, we might as well shut down our entire college system. The gender science that has permeated and in some places forced universities and courses is a direct outlet of the later postmodernism, which is directly hostile to science. All theories should of course be given space and discussed within the university, but should such ideologies be allowed to govern the activities of our higher education world? We believe that this is directly absurd. That said, of course, everyone should have the same conditions and opportunities: men and women, different socio-economic backgrounds – it should not matter. Of course, things like skin colour or descent should not matter either. These are self-evident, fundamental liberal values that we all support, I guess. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to speak briefly about our main budgetary efforts. We want to invest extra in nuclear research, because we are convinced that nuclear energy will be needed in the future if we are to phase out fossil energy sources. If we're going to drive Tesla cars in the future, we're actually going to have to get the cream from somewhere. Even now, our electricity grid is becoming unsteady and unstable due to wind turbines producing less quality electricity. We have a national energy system that is connected to the outside world, but in order to gain security and stability in the system throughout the year, we must have enough rotational energy, as it is called. I'm afraid that doesn't give wind power. We want to invest a lot in space as we believe it promotes the entire Swedish high-tech sector. It also gives a lot of spinoff effects. We would also like to see Sweden at the forefront of space, taking into account the limited resources that we still have. We cannot really measure up with Russia and the United States. I think everyone understands that. As a general approach, we are convinced that higher education must focus more on quality than on quantity alone, as is the case today. Not only can everything be about how many higher education places we have, but it must also be about what students learn and that they can do something meaningful with their education. We are abolishing the reduction in productivity in our budget with the intention that this money should not go to more places but to improve the quality of education through, for example, more teacher-led teaching time. In addition, we raise the general basic grant according to the same principles: more quality, not more quantity, within the university.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-312	Mr. Old President! It is always interesting to hear Robert Stenkvist's speeches. I have had the privilege of reading the budget presented by the Swedish Democrats to Parliament. It raises some questions in my mind, and I am curious to hear how the Swedish Democrats reason. Firstly, I and the Center Party believe that free, curiosity-driven research and research intensity are important. But the Swedish Democrats propose in their budget reduced funding to the Swedish Research Council of 100 million. How do the Swedish Democrats explain this? Secondly, when you present a budget to the Swedish Parliament, it is one's goal and vision for what one would have done if one had the conditions to get a majority for it. I note that it raises some questions when I read the budget, linked to the reservation that the Swedish Democrats have also placed. It says that for reduced administrative costs, a merger is proposed between Malmö University and Lund University and Mälardalen University and Södertörn University. This will save EUR 55 million and EUR 95 million, respectively, as of next year. How does Robert Stenkvist view the possibility of a merger of this kind in a very short time, as it really is? And what are the risks he sees in how savings can affect his operations?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-316	Mr. Old President! We have deducted 100 million from the Swedish Research Council to make the research even more free and give that money, and more, to the higher education institutions and universities. We believe that research will then be even more free. The background is a little what I mentioned in my speech that we believe that in the area of hum-sam we can probably cut back on the grants that the Swedish Research Council gives. My speech was about the fact that there are many areas that are researched and that funding may also be given to research where absolutely no one will read the finished research report. Much of the criticism that Hanne Kjöller mentions in his book is directed against the Swedish Research Council and the hum-sam area. But it's not money that goes away from research – absolutely not, not a crown! They get a little less money to move around with, and that money is basically two big grants if I count right when I look at this. When it comes to the merger, it has been our policy for a long time that we want small universities to cooperate administratively with larger universities to save on administrative costs. No, it is not possible to do this in a year, but RUT, the Parliamentary Investigation Service has looked at this carefully, and we have produced money. I don't remember this – I would have – but we have estimated how much we could save just on the administrative staff. It's a gentle cutback. We could certainly make even greater administrative gains, but we have gone cautiously. Of course it takes longer than a year to implement this. That is absolutely the case.
i-VL7EPENvapcoNwytfnyB16	Mr. Old President! Thanks for the answer, Robert Stenkvist! I think the last thing Robert Stenkvist says is remarkable. He says that it is not possible to implement it in a year, but yet it is included in the Swedish Democrats' budget that these reductions should take place in order to achieve what the Swedish Democrats have as their goal. We do not share opinions on the substance, but I agree that the collaboration between universities can certainly be better. When presenting such a h is proposal to the Swedish Parliament with such substantial savings and a proposal for mergers, I expect from the Swedish Democrats that it is also possible to implement it during the financial year that it proposes that the savings be made to fund other measures that the Swedish Democrats highlight. As far as the Swedish Research Council is concerned, as I said at the outset, we obviously disagree. I think that free research from the Swedish Research Council and research intensity is an important key to strengthening the quality of research in Sweden and thus driving development. However, it is not in contrast to investing in increased basic funding for higher education institutions that is an important part of the research system. It is also part of the budget that we are debating today.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-326	Mr. Old President! A merger would of course take time, and it is of course possible that full savings will not be made in the first year. But we've had RUT investigate this and have carefully and very carefully calculated it to be serious. A large amount of administrative staff could be saved on a merger. And why not spend that money on education and research? There is no intrinsic value in that a huge university like Lund is located a few miles away from a university in Malmö. Why can't they cooperate administratively? I think it's three or four miles between the cities, but Patrick Reslow, who's acting, knows better than I do. Well, this is a waste of resources. If the Center can do better calculations, then do it! Then perhaps we can put forward proposals for mergers, so we can spend the money on better things than mere administration. This was precisely the reason why we deducted 100 million from the Swedish Research Council, in the hum-sam area, not to mention. We think that research in other areas has great quality. But here it is flawed, and we have seen it year after year. I usually skim through the Swedish Research Council's calls every year. They lack quality. I believe that the quality will be increased if we transfer this money to individual universities instead. And then the research will actually be even more free.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-330	Mr. Old President! I could not help asking for a reply, Mr Stenkvist. I certainly did not intend to do so, but it is not possible to leave this undisputed. All research should be free as long as it is not called gender research. Then it must definitely not be free, because then there is something wrong with it and does not lead anywhere. All of us who have ever been involved in gender research – for example, I am on the board of the Centre for Gender Research at Karlstad University – know how extremely important this research is precisely when it comes to power structures and that regardless of gender, sexual orientation and other factors you should have the same rights in society as everyone else. If I were to highlight any research, it is the one that is absolutely most important. It wants Robert Stenkvist and the Swedish Democrats just to remove completely. At the Centre for Gender Research in Karlstad we have a major project called the Gender Academy. There, entrepreneurs, very many small companies, can participate and look at how together they can challenge standards, which makes their growth increase. In addition, the Gender Academy has received money from the EU's Regional Development Fund, quite a lot of money. Do not Robert Stenkvist and the Swedish Democrats think that research that develops the companies in Sweden is important?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-334	Mr. Old President! As I have said several times before, we want and cannot ban gender research. However, the government should not order gender research through regulatory letters and other things. As a parliament and as a government, we cannot prohibit any research at all. But we demand compliance with the Higher Education Act. It says that all research should be based on scientific basis and proven experience. I would like to add common sense, because it is sometimes lacking. If research is not based on scientific basis and proven experience, it actually violates the Higher Education Act. Then the parties who want to try to change the Higher Education Act can. I don't think that's a success factor. We're not against all gender research. Let me say quite clearly that there is great and important gender research, which is also based on scientific foundations. You do not want to repeat everything you have said before every time you go up in the speaker's chair. But what I criticise is the postmodernist focus on gender science. As I said in the speaker's chair, it violates the whole basic scientific thought. I have now spent a couple of weeks reading literature, and I am just amazed at all the strange ideas. They do not belong in Swedish colleges and are contrary to what you have formulated in the Higher Education Act. It's insane! However, we are in favour of sensible gender research, of course.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-341	Mr. Old President! It is not I, but Mr Stenkvist, who says that gender research is not based on scientific grounds. In fact, I find it quite upsetting. I would like Robert Stenkvist to develop what he said in the previous change of line about reducing the grant to the Swedish Research Council due to shortcomings in quality when it comes to hum-sam. That is something that none of us have seen, at least, so I would like the honourable Member to develop it.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-343	Mr. Old President! My view is that it may be because there are hardly any outside academia who read the calls, and then nobody sees anything. I do not agree with everything that Hanne Kjöller has written in his book. There are a lot of things that I do not agree with, but I do that about what she wrote about conducting research on issues where the research question has already been answered time and again. Why do appropriations continue to be made available for this? I don't understand that. In addition, I think that we should be able to look at research from outside. Those in academia want only them to judge each other – it's such a culture. But here it is tax money that is involved. We must also be able to look at research from outside. You can see that there are a lot of strange research headings and areas when you look through the list of calls. We must be able to redeploy priorities in order to improve the quality of research. That's a bit of our job. We will look at research, funds and what happens and make assessments, to the extent we can. Much of this can only be assessed within academia, but then it is our task to create self-regulatory and self-control systems, so that we do not throw out a lot of billions of research that does not lead anywhere and will never lead anywhere. Having said that, it is difficult to know exactly which research will come true. Our task is also to try to improve the quality of research.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-348	Mr. Old President! A large part of the research budget will be distributed and debated on the basis of the research policy proposal. It was scheduled to be presented in November but now comes instead at the end of this week – a bit like a Christmas present for us Members so that we will not be idle during the Christmas and New Year holidays, now that we cannot spend time with loved ones. Thank you! The Left Party had basically the same proposal for funding for research as the Government and intends to clarify the research policy and how the funding should be distributed in our follow-up motion on the basis of the bill. One difference that we already want to make clear is the importance of research funding for research without animal testing. Since 2014, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has been running a 3R centre, a centre that had funding until this year. The term 3R stands for replace, i.e. replace, reduce, i.e. limit, and refine, i.e. refine, and means that animal experiments should be replaced or limited. Now there is a majority in the Riksdag for the 3R Centre to continue to operate; however, the Left Party had in its draft budget with an increase. The role of the 3R centre is, among other things, to be a gathering arena for knowledge and cooperation on 3R issues both in Sweden and within the EU. The Centre helps to disseminate knowledge about how to research without animal testing or minimise animal suffering. But if you are to be able to spread knowledge, the knowledge must be there, and it needs to be increased. On the Left side, we therefore believe that more research is needed on how to research without animal testing. We therefore proposed in our budget exercise a doubling of the grant to the Swedish Research Council to fund research and development of alternative methods for animal experiments, something that is really needed. Mr. Old President! In the autumn, the number of places at universities and higher education institutions increased sharply. Unfortunately, the drop-out from education has also increased sharply this autumn. Several higher education institutions have reported that the number of drop-outs is significantly greater than the number corresponding to the expansion. At Stockholm University, for example, the number of admitted persons increased by 2 per cent, but the number of defections has increased by 30 per cent compared to 2019. In Karlstad, the number of admitted persons increased by 16 per cent, but the dropout has more than doubled. While more have been admitted to our higher education institutions, it has been more difficult to study when much of the studies have been done digitally. It's natural with some drop-outs; it can be about job offers, mischoices and changes in private relationships. But there is concern about this large increase in the number of defections. The drop-out costs the community billions, and the drop-out person still has his student debt. The drop-out also results in empty places in courses that are really needed. In the Left Party Budget Movement, we had several proposals that could reduce the number of drop-outs from higher education. We have proposed a strong investment in the student unions, both for the study social work and to strengthen the student union work. The Student Union's work is important for the students' well-being and thus also for their ability to complete their studies. Another of our efforts is to increase the remuneration per student by 1 000 SEK. Such an increase would increase the quality of education and would increase the possibility of supporting those who need support to complete higher education. Unfortunately, both the educational support and the extra support are lacking. I believe in a broader recruitment and that everyone should have the opportunity to study at the university. But then we must have a university that has the resources and the opportunity to receive students with varying backgrounds and experience. If more people are to dare to apply for higher education and recruitment can be broadened, support for students with disabilities must be extended. Therefore, we also extend the support to the Special Education School Agency, which grants support to students with disabilities. In our exercise, which will be discussed in the spring, we will make further proposals to support these students. Today, few disabilities give the right to adapted university tests. People with disabilities and diabetics can get adapted test situations, but they cannot be guaranteed this. In order for more people to be entitled to adapted university tests and test situations, we also increase the UHR's budget for the university exam in this part. Persons with disabilities are under-represented among those with higher education and among those with upper secondary education degrees. Everyone should have equal opportunities to take the university test – everything else is discriminatory. Mr. Old President! Any child who dreams of dancing, playing theatre or learning to play an instrument should have the opportunity to do so. We're not there yet. There are still many children who cannot afford it because of their parents'finances. There is a risk that even fewer children will have the opportunity to attend cultural school because there is so much shortage of cultural educators. The cultural school centre is part of the national initiative at the cultural school and aims to educate more educators. This is to be able to shorten queues and replace all those who retire in the coming years. The Parliament has also decided on this initiative, and in the budget for 2019 and beyond there were 40 million dedicated to more training places. These 40 million did not fit on the napkin sketch decided by the Riksdag in 2018. The government has then chosen not to add the funds that the Moderates and the KD took away, but to settle for a halving of the investment that was decided when the government cooperated with the Left Party. For the Left Party, culture is important, and in our budget we propose an increase of SEK 20 million compared to the government. I can only regret that the government and its co-operative parties choose not to invest in culture school and future cultural creators. Now I was going to quit, but since I lack the right to reply, I must, as an addendum, stress the importance of gender science for knowledge and understanding of how gender and gender affect society and people's opportunities. Otherwise, Mr President-in-Office, I refer to the special opinion of the Left Party and refrain from taking a position on the budget when our framework budget has fallen.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-363	Mr. Old President! Quality and excellence should be a leader in higher education and research. The most important task of higher education is to convey knowledge. I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to all the staff at higher education institutions around the country who have managed to make a fantastic transition now during the pandemic. And thank you to all of you students who, although it has been difficult in many situations, have also managed to keep up with the transition! What is required are competent university teachers and researchers and a stimulating work environment but also student social security, regardless of pandemic or not. Student unions at higher education institutions around the country have an important role to play in pushing for high quality in higher education, monitoring the students' situation and ensuring that universities prevent sexual harassment and mental illness. According to a report from the University Chancellor's Office 2017, the student unions are unfortunately heavily underfunded. We Christian Democrats have paid attention to this and the problems it entails. It is gratifying that the government has now also paid attention to the problem in this budget and increased support for the student unions. Thank you for that! Mr. Old President! The development of new knowledge is central to Sweden's ability to be a competitive knowledge nation. Research plays a crucial role in growth and development, but also in ensuring welfare in the longer term. Not least, this is evident in health care. Today's research will be tomorrow's lifesaving treatment or perhaps vaccines that will help us get out of a pandemic. Research needs long-term and stable conditions, which requires an appropriate allocation of resources to universities and higher education institutions. We Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the government is now increasing the basic funds, the funds allocated directly to universities and colleges. However, we believe it is urgent that a proportion of the basic funding be earmarked and used to ensure clear, secure and attractive jobs and conditions for young researchers. Because, Mr. President, as a scientist, it is natural and self-evident to be exposed to competition. This is very important, whether it is employment or grant applications. Excellency shall be leading. At the same time, however, the extremely precarious conditions of employment in academia are extremely rewarding. I can take myself as an example. I defended my thesis in 2002. After years of various postdoc scholarships, which in turn were followed by several fixed-term positions that were stacked on each other and mainly based on external funding, I finally received, after almost 14 years, the first permanent employment of my life – but then on condition that I would withdraw money for my own salary through external research grants. Then I was 43 years old and had been a associate professor for several years. Mr. Old President! My case is by no means unique. But I think few people outside the academic sphere know how unsafe and precarious the employment conditions are actually at the universities in our country. We Christian Democrats believe that better and more secure forms of employment are important to stimulate young researchers and their development to be prominent and world-leading researchers. More predictable career paths are needed. We want to see a national career ladder with clear steps, where the appointment of services is based on scientific quality and educational competence. Transparent, quality-proof and equal criteria are a matter of course, as is the scrutiny of qualifications by external, independent experts. An earmarking of funds from the basic grant to this particular purpose would be a good investment, partly for Sweden's competitiveness and strength as a knowledge nation, and partly to reduce stress in the researcher's everyday life. The pressure and stress associated with withdrawing external funds for doctoral students' salaries and the actual costs of research are more than sufficient. Mr. Old President! The autonomy of research is crucial to stimulate the best and most innovative research ideas. Solutions to many societal challenges have emerged through creativity and knowledge that have been generated by long-term investments in precisely the free research. The free research support should therefore constitute the vast majority of the research funding, and the award should be governed by scientific quality. The fact that the government is now increasing resources for the external state research funders in the current budget bill is urgent and welcome. The Christian Democrats nevertheless see a need to complement free research support with a couple of strategic research initiatives. I would therefore like to conclude by pointing out that we think it is urgent to set up national research programmes in two areas that we believe need special attention. It is partly about strengthening women's health and partly about strengthening the health of the elderly. We therefore earmark SEK 250 million per year for these purposes within the framework of the Swedish Research Council and Forte. Mr. Old President! With respect for time, I am content to tell you a little about the initiative we are proposing on women's health. There is currently a lack of knowledge about many so-called women's diseases – diseases that only affect women or where women are over-represented among those affected. It is about endometriosis, PCOS, i.e. polycystic ovarian syndrome, fibromyalgia, ME/ CFS and lipedema. Lack of knowledge often means that diagnosis is difficult and that the development of effective treatment is hindered. Lack of care and treatment entail large socio-economic costs linked to, for example, mental illness, work loss, sick leave and care and treatment. Above all, however, human suffering is linked to these diseases. Women often describe that their everyday lives are adversely affected by the disease itself but also by the fact that they feel limited in their goals and dreams of family, leisure and career. It is therefore important to increase the knowledge of the causes and different aspects of so-called women's diseases. Mr. Old President! The precise design of these national research programmes should be formulated by relevant research funders and the research community. This is how to make the best use of researchers' knowledge, creativity and ability to formulate problems and solve problems. Mr. Old President! These are some of the reforms that we prioritise in the field of research and higher education. As the budgetary option should be seen as a whole, we are abstaining from the requests on the matter, but we obviously support all of our proposals and our specific opinion.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-379	Mr. Old President! About a year has passed since we last stood here in the speaker's chair and debated these areas. It is a year that has taught us not to take anything for granted. It is a year that focused more than before on the need for research and what research progress means for mankind's survival. The pandemic has not only demonstrated the need for research. It has also shown the need for more educated staff in health care. It's the staff that's carried us through this year. Mr. Old President! I will come back to what I just mentioned, but I want to start in another part of the education system. Last week the results of the Tims study, which measures students' knowledge of mathematics and science in grade 4 and grade 8. The results for 2019 show that Swedish students perform below average in mathematics compared to other participating countries. This applies to both grade 4 and grade 8. Sometimes it appears that what is happening in higher education and the research world are isolated events. But successful research is based on successful researchers, and they do not arise from a vacuum. The foundation for a successful research nation is not laid at Chalmers. It is placed at Hammarkullsskolan, Taubeskolan and all the other primary schools around Sweden. It is then refined through higher education, international cooperation, access to the best research infrastructure, secure employment conditions and, of course, opportunities to build excellent research environments. When we debate this report – I focus on higher education and research – I would like to stay in front of four parts that we Liberals want to emphasise in particular. We are proud of the increase in the research budget in the coming years. We worked hard for it, and we will work even harder in the future for increased research funding. We also welcome increased basic funding for higher education institutions. These are much-needed supplements. First of all, few in here have probably missed that the Liberals are always trying to get their words into high quality, when it comes to school and to higher education and research. We're not alone. But it is not only the words and excellence that are important, but also the fact that they will permeate higher education and research. If you have chosen to continue your studies, invest in your future and take out student loans, our responsibility must be that your education to nurse, civil engineer or something else meets high quality requirements. This applies to all universities that provide the courses in question. From the Liberals' side, we will be following closely the issue of developing higher education. We see a need for this, at the same time as the development of higher education must always be done by putting the quality of education in focus. Quantity shall not be available at the expense of quality. Similarly, research quality must be at the heart of all research efforts. Professor Gunnar Öquist, former permanent secretary of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, has evaluated Nordic research and stated that I believe that Sweden, Norway and Finland are more tolerant of mediocre research than Denmark. This is something we must constantly work on. Whether you conduct research in Russian literature or quantum physics, excellence is the absolute goal. We welcome the addition to the budget to allow the development of excellence centres, so that cutting-edge research is given the very best conditions. Secondly, I would particularly like to highlight teacher training. In 15 years' time, 45 000 teachers will be missing, according to the Swedish National Agency for Education's forecasts. The shortage is alarming. The budget presents a number of initiatives to create more pathways into the teaching profession, as it is usually called. These are complementary teaching and further training of unauthorised teachers and preschool teachers. To continue working to make the teaching profession as attractive as possible, the Liberals will devote a great deal of effort to the coming years. It is important not least to improve the working environment and to make it easier for teachers to concentrate on their teaching assignments. Thirdly, major investments are made in research infrastructure and European Spallation Source, ESS, in Lund. Modern research is becoming increasingly dependent on advanced equipment. It is about large data capacity, cleanroom, advanced telescopes or accelerators. It's usually called the infrastructure of research. One of these initiatives is the material research facility ESS. But these huge investments also need to be managed and developed, and the infrastructure needs to be provided in the best way. It is good that there is an investigation into research infrastructure. It is also good that the budget ensures long-term financing of the ESS facility. Fourthly, Mr. Age President, there is in the budget investment in research schools and a clear focus on humanities and social sciences. It has been pushed by the Liberals under the slogan of education lift. These are subjects that have long stood back but which play a major role in the development of society and the quality of public conversation. Society is enriched with a deep and long-term resilience to simplification and stupidity. A society that lacks knowledge of Latin, philosophy, Greek and history of ideas is a poorer society. A vital academic teaching requires research in these subjects. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: the most important reason to invest in new knowledge is that we need it to meet the challenges facing humanity. It is about holding back the rise in temperature in the atmosphere, eradicating poverty, combating pandemics and other diseases and in other ways promoting development that brings peace, freedom and prosperity. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-393	Mr. Old President! Sweden is and will continue to be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation. Sometimes we hear the opposite, that things go downhill. But correct is that Sweden is a leader. We are high in rankings that measure innovations. We invest more than almost all other countries in terms of resources per capita. We have a high proportion of university graduates and many researchers. We have a generous education system with student funds and free universities. We have attracted important infrastructure investments that in turn recruit high-profile researchers from all over the world. That's how we can proceed. But a leading position must also be defended. We need to continue our efforts in order not to lose ground. Perhaps this mainly concerns the quality of the business. In both research and higher education, we need to safeguard and strengthen quality. But we're not just betting to rank high. We need education, research, high-quality collaboration to meet societal challenges. We need to train more students to meet the skills supply, not least in the welfare professions. We have a great future need for teachers, doctors, preschool educators and health professionals. But there are also needs in industry and industry in a number of sectors. The MP-S government has therefore, since it took office, had a huge focus on the supply of skills. We are in the midst of a historically large expansion of the number of places in the university. This initiative is now intensifying for 2021 with funds for 19 000 new places that are funded. It's important. For the quality of education must keep up with the quantitative expansion. The quality of higher education is rooted in the close connection with research. In order for us to succeed in supporting the whole country with teachers, for example, it is important that the teacher education is available in locations all over the country. In order for the quality of the education to follow, research and strong research environments are also required at all universities. Smaller universities and higher education institutions should be encouraged to profile themselves more clearly in order to cope with quality and competition. Distance education and online learning are important and will be even more important. Students also need more time with teachers. There are no shortcuts to high quality education. The Green Party therefore wants at least ten hours of teacher-led time in most higher education and university courses to be seen as an absolute minimum. With the agreement we have with the January parties, we are taking the step towards that goal, but we will continue to pursue this. We need both breadth and excellence in our research efforts. Without lace, we lose quality. Without the width there is no ground for a tip. We therefore need to focus resources on increased basic funding for higher education institutions in order to be able to be the good employers and create strong research and learning environments. In this respect, I would like to stress what Pia Steensland mentioned earlier in the debate about the need for higher education institutions to strengthen the working environment and job security. But we will also invest in free research through the research councils. It is they who are best placed to manage to distribute funds in competition. Collaboration with the surrounding society, with the public sector, civil society and the business community provides incentives and conditions for high innovation. A major investment in research infrastructure, expensive equipment and large facilities is made in this budget. It will also be crucial for maintaining excellence and high international quality in the research carried out at Sweden's higher education institutions for a long time to come. Mr. Old President! The budget bill shows several of the initiatives that the government is making for both the coming year 2021 and for the research and innovation policy bill that will be presented later this week. In addition to the major investments in free basic research, the basic grants and the infrastructure of research, there are also several targeted initiatives such as ten-year research programmes in a number of socially critical areas. The other day, the Minister for Higher Education and Research, together with Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin, announced that climate will be the largest national research programme when the new research policy bill is presented. We are also establishing a new research programme on sea and water. For climate and the environment, the threat to biodiversity, these are the destiny of our time. There is a need for more knowledge here. This applies both to how we are to change our lives and our societies to counter climate change and how we are to adapt to climate change that is here and now. This last, climate adaptation, is about how to cope with strong winds, floods, droughts and extreme temperatures. But it's also about how we globally and here in Sweden are to deal with the situation that arises when hundreds of millions of people around the world are forced to leave their homes – and perhaps also their home countries – due to climate change and disasters. The UN has forecast 200 million climate refugees before the middle of the century. That's 30 years from now. Another news that was communicated last week was that Mälardalen University becomes a university. It is not easy to set up a new university. But there is research and education of high quality, many researchers and active doctoral students. There is also great interest from the region, not least from the business community. Mälardalen has more than a thousand years of historical connection to Bergslagen's mining industries. It was also a region that early gained profit from the introduction of business freedom in the mid-1900s when the Swedish genius industry flourished with a host of viable engineering and industrial companies. The fact that we are now getting a new university in the middle of this region points to a new era in this development with good collaborations with today's and tomorrow's industrial companies such as ABB, Bombardier and Northvolt, but also with all the many new innovative companies that can now have the opportunity to grow. Mr. Old President! I've spent most of my time in research. I will conclude by further mentioning something about education as well. Some of the most important parts of the budget related to education and training are: Lifelong learning efforts, investment in education and training across the country, decentralised education, better access to distance courses, a pool of forces for more and better equipped teachers – it is very important – and stronger health care education. We need to ensure equal and high-quality education throughout the country. We need to broaden recruitment to the university so that more people get the chance. But broader recruitment also means that we will need to take better care of our students. Unfortunately, we have seen an increase in mental illness among students for a long time. It's really alarming. Psychic disorders are more common among students than among professionals in the corresponding age groups. There is therefore an investment in student unions in the budget. Student health also receives additional funding. We take this challenge very seriously. Mr. Old President! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-411	Mr. Old President! I'll just give you some thought and not adopt a demagogic tone here. I got a little carried away when Mats Berglund talked about the teachers' colleges being around the country. If I remember correctly from the last parliamentary term, a few teacher training courses were dropped due to a lack of quality. I wonder how Berglund views this. Could it be that certain training courses must actually be concentrated in certain places in order to obtain sufficient quality? There are regional policy considerations to be taken into account; I am the first to admit it. But it is a question of a balance and balance between these regional policy considerations and maintaining the quality of the various training courses. I do not think that teachers' training can be spread throughout the country, because there must be qualified and knowledgeable staff running the training courses. That is my question to Mats Berglund. How does he view this balance?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-416	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Robert Stenkvist, for requesting a reply! The Rules of Procedure do not allow me to ask for a reply to previous speeches. I must take this opportunity to say that I am very worried when I hear Robert Stenkvist talk so aggressively and so aggressively against selected theories in research and at the same time, in the same breath, talk about the freedom of research. We have seen precisely these attacks in, above all, the right-wing political groups across Europe. We have seen how, for example, in Hungary – a country to which the Swedish Democrats are happy to refer – this rhetoric prohibits this type of education and closes universities. I'd like to know what you want with these attacks on gender theory and postmodernism. I'll answer your questions, too. I think it's incredibly important to have teaching colleges all over the country. We know that students remain in the places where they are examined and in those regions, but it is very difficult to get graduates teachers, doctors and health professionals to move to the places. That is why it is extremely important that we have training programmes throughout the country, but also that we invest more in distance learning so that we get a supply of skills in these professions throughout the country. Yes, there have been problems with teacher training. I think so. But we have made a great reform, and we are beginning to get to grips with it. We're increasing the number of seats now, and I think there's going to be a big craving. The teaching profession has become more popular, so I think there are all the opportunities to take care of teacher training all over the country. That is my hope and faith.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-422	Mr. Old President! No, very few Swedish democrats are referring to Hungary. We like Orbán's immigration policy; it is no secret. But I have not heard anyone else referring to Hungary at all, because we do not even know what his system looks like. I have read a little in Swedish newspapers about it, and that can be true or it can't be true– I have no idea. In reality, therefore, I have heard very few leading Swedish democrats who have referred to Hungary. I wasn't going to say this, but when it comes to post-modernism, it's the threat. I read black in white: They doubt what we call science. They think it's a power structure. I do not understand how this cannot be understood; it is completely incomprehensible. I've been to a Rifoseminarium. I pop into a lunch, and there was a postmodernist professor of ethics from Lund. I'm not going to mention her name because she's not here. There were 40 of us sitting there, and she was seriously proposing that we abolish parliamentary democracy. I was just screaming, and then I looked around. No one reacted. She was seriously suggesting that we abolish the job we're sitting here doing now. I wondered: What is the threat? She proposed replacing this with laws and rules on human rights. Then one might ask who would decide on these laws and rights. I never had the opportunity to ask, because then the seminar was interrupted. I think Mats Berglund should see postmodernism a little closer in the seams without blinding the ears and eyes and really check what this is. Am I wrong? I hope I'm wrong, but I don't think so.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-427	Mr. Old President! I am a researcher myself, and I have many colleagues who use parts of or whole theory packages of the postmodernist theory picture. It is actually a large cluster of theory images; one has to say that. I also have many colleagues who use gender theories. I have done so myself in my own research. I am a member of the Swedish women's and gender historian, for example. It is clear that one is distressed when this type of anecdotal evidence takes place against individual researchers to discredit an entire theory. But that's not the scary part. The nasty thing is that we have parliamentarians from a party who use the same rhetoric as right-wing extremist politicians across Europe, for example in Hungary. You do not need to say, on the Swedish Democrats' side, that you think that Hungary is a leading country in all parts, but we have seen that you are using the same rhetoric on these very issues. These are exactly the same attacks, and in Hungary we have seen how it has led to the banning of certain parts of teaching and the closure of universities. That is why I am concerned, and that is the answer I would like. What do you mean by these attacks on individual methods and theories in research? Unfortunately, Robert Stenkvist will not be able to answer that, but we will have to return to this discussion.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-432	Mr. Old President! During the year, the coronapine has tried our society. The impact has been great both for individuals and for society as a whole. People are sick, people lose their loved ones, businesses lay off and people have lost their jobs. In order to deal with the pandemic and its effects, the Government and the Riksdag, together with municipalities and regions, have worked intensively during the year. I am very grateful for the work that our universities and colleges have done during the year. They have switched their activities from campus education to digital at a distance. It has been a great transformation that our universities have taken on, responsibly and with the students' best interests in mind. Students have also shown great responsibility for their studies and for limiting the spread of infection. In addition, universities and colleges have produced hand alcohol, helped with sampling and delivered visors to healthcare. Students have volunteered and volunteered to go in and out of health care when it has been needed most. I am proud of our colleges and universities but also of our students. I am also proud of the work that has been done to give more people the opportunity to educate themselves through the pandemic. We see increased pressure for higher education in the wake of a change in the labour market. A total of 407 000 people had applied for training before the autumn semester. Even before the spring semester, admissions increased by 10 per cent compared with last year. We also see a large increase in the number of applicants to the health professions. It gives hope for the future. It is clear that the pandemic has made more people want to help in these vital professions. More people need to find a new path in life. Then the strong society should be at hand. For those who have given notice, opportunities for further education should be increased. It offers new opportunities for lack of vocational training, such as the teaching profession. For those who want to become a nurse and contribute to the welfare, there are good conditions and improved opportunities to study where they live, no matter where in the country it is. I am pleased that we have been able to meet the increasing need for education with a record expansion of the university. For 2021, the Government proposes funds that enable nearly 19,000 new places of study so that more people can study at universities and colleges. Making this investment in education is twofold positive, and many people have the opportunity to study and find employment, and we make sure to strengthen education with a focus on health professions, the teaching profession and other shortages in welfare and business that society and the labour market so badly need. An investment in education is an investment in both man and society. In total, the expansion means that the knowledge lift within the university increases from 25 000 places for 2021 based on the forecast in the last autumn budget to instead about 44 000 new places in 2021. This is a reinforcement for 2021 with SEK 1.7 billion for higher education. It will be 2.4 billion if we also include the study funds. In the expansion there is money for programme locations, short courses for professionals, basic years courses and investments in education throughout the country. The strong society should be at hand and meet up with education when both man and the labour market need it. Together with investments in our robust and world-unique student education system, student unions and health care, students and society can be equipped to overcome the crisis. Mr. Old President! Another important part of being strongly equipped in the crisis, and in future crises, is the investment we are making in research and innovation. Very soon I will be able to present a research and innovation proposal that we have developed in a collaboration in the middle of Swedish politics. Soon I will be able to present the bill in its entirety, but there is already a lot to say about how we invest in Sweden to continue to be a leading research nation. Investing in research and innovation creates jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. It is necessary to restart the economy during the pandemic. It is also necessary to build skills, welfare and competitiveness that meet our societal challenges. Research is needed to solve the climate challenge, to create secure and strong societies and not least to meet upcoming pandemics and other health challenges. Research and innovation contribute to development power across the country. It strengthens our society. Research concerns us all, and it should be in place to improve society and our common lives. The free search for knowledge is also of fundamental importance for the protection and strengthening of democracy. Sweden's universities and colleges are a defence for the free formation of opinion, and academic freedom and free research should therefore be promoted. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government proposes and calculates a significant increase in the level of government investment in research and innovation. It will be a reinforcement with an additional 3.4 billion already in 2021. In 2022, 2023 and 2024, the investments are estimated at SEK 3, 2, 3,3 and 3.75 billion respectively. These are investments in Swedish research and innovation with 13.6 billion over four years. This is a 10% increase in state-funded research. This is a forward-looking proposal, and it gives us very good opportunities to continue to conduct world-leading research and meet our most important societal challenges. Unlike many previous research policy proposals, almost the entire level increase is already being made in the first year of the four-year period. However, this is needed in the wake of the pandemic, where the need for a re-launch of society and the economy is high and where funding from foundations and industry is expected to decrease due to the pandemic. The state thus assumes a responsibility to maintain its efforts in Swedish research and innovation at a time when society and the economy as well as the research and innovation system are under special strain, when the need for research is great. With major investments in education and research throughout the country, Sweden is better equipped to get through this and future crises. As Minister for Higher Education and Research, I am naturally proud to be able to present these initiatives that lie in the middle of Swedish politics. These are initiatives that strengthen people, research and the labour market. Mr. Old President! Since I have not had the right to reply, I would like to conclude by saying a few words to the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. I listened carefully to the spokesperson of the Moderates. I saw and heard the pride of her when she told me that she was studying at college and university, and I heard how happy she was about it. The Moderates seem to think that a policy for universities and colleges is important. However, I can say from the policy of the Moderates that this really does not apply to everyone. After all, they have removed the possibility of higher education qualifications for young people in upper secondary schools' professional programmes. That's how a class community is built where doors are closed. I want a stronger society that opens doors, where education and education should exist for the individual throughout life and across the country. I want to be very clear with the Swedish Democrats. I pay for the social relevance of the Swedish democrats. It is a future that frights. The social relevance of the Swedish democrats is quite obvious in what they express in words and in their budget. It is fully aligned – in a straight line – with other authoritarian, right-wing and right-wing forces when they cut down at Malmö University, Södertörn University and all the artistic colleges. Artistic research receives no money in the future of Sweden's democrats. The Swedish Research Council and humsam are going away. There is no place for equality in the future of Sweden's democrats. I pay for the social relevance of the Swedish democrats. It is free, limited and dangerous. It is far from the Swedish model and far from the strong society that I want to be involved in building. It also clearly shows that research and academia – free research and free academia – and that the free search for knowledge is indeed a defence for democracy. That's how it should continue to be.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-453	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for being here today! It is very urgent and important. Research is just as you describe incredibly important for Sweden's future. I could not help but notice that the Government nodded recognition when I described in my speech the precarious employment relationships that unfortunately prevail at higher education institutions. I am also pleased that Mats Berglund, as a representative of the Green Party, agreed with the importance of ensuring secure employment in academia. I would therefore like the Government to develop a little bit the Government's thoughts and ideas on how to ensure a better working situation. Is it the case that the government, like us Christian Democrats, is interested in establishing national career steps, for example? Today it looks very different at different universities. I would also like to know what the Government thinks about the idea of actually marrying part of the basic grant precisely to secure these forms of employment.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-457	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Pia Steensland from the Christian Democrats, for the commitment to higher education and research, not least when it comes to secure employment conditions. The government has previously identified that we need to continue working with safe colleges. This is a large sector with many employees and many students, and it is clear that we need to be better at providing secure employment conditions. It is a way to recruit and retain the very best and to make use of the skills available. I will also develop this in the research and innovation bill that will shortly be presented to the Swedish Parliament.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-460	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your happy answer. I'm really looking forward to the Christmas present in the form of the research bill. I would also like to raise another issue that is extremely urgent in the pandemic that we are in now and in the crisis that exists in healthcare. We have a health care professional who has fought so extremely hard during the spring to deal with the pandemic. They've changed in a fantastic way. They've done this. However, summer brought far too little time for recovery, and the pandemic's second wave is working very hard not least on those who are now struggling to save lives. We hear alarming reports that it is incredibly difficult. It was gratifying that the release fee was removed during the current year precisely so that students could help in health care and support in those parts where appropriate. We discussed the issue in committee, and I understood, however, that the Minister was a little cautiously positive and that perhaps something could be done in the coming years too. Mr. Old President! I would like to know whether the Government can give any positive information in this area.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-464	Mr. Old President! The debate on study funding will take place tomorrow, but since I am unable to attend this debate and will be represented by Members of Parliament from the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, I shall nevertheless give an answer now. It is true that we have abolished the allowance during this year, and we did it simply so that no one would have to think about how it affects the student funds if you go in and work in health care. After all, the government has handled the coronapandemy as so that we must be prepared to make decisions according to how the pandemic develops. Of course, this is one of those questions that we look at and see how we are going to deal with for the coming years. Sometimes there are some misunderstandings in the debate, and in order for students to still feel safe, I want to be clear that even if we have a limit on the amount of the release – something we had earlier, after the turn of the year – it means that for example, a nursing student can work almost half-time in six months without hitting the free amount limit. I therefore feel convinced that our students who have the opportunity to contribute to health care can also complete their studies. The fact that we can hold and examine nurses is also important, because they are needed out in health care. As I said, the government is prepared to make decisions as the pandemic affects us.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-470	Madam President, I would like The European Council last week had a number of important and difficult issues on the agenda – climate, sanctions against Turkey and the budgetary issue, to name a few. On the other hand, there was no discussion of the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom, but only an update of the situation of Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. As the Board knows, negotiations continue with a view to an agreement as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like The day before the meeting, the German Presidency proposed that the European Council adopt an explanatory statement on the implementation of the so-called conditionality regulation, with a view to unlocking the blockage on the budgetary issue. The agreement now reached between the Council and the European Parliament is therefore intact, and the legal expertise of both the Government Office and the Council agrees that the explanatory statement neither alters the purpose of the regulation nor alters the powers of the institutions. The statement could be accepted by everyone after Poland and Hungary backed from the position that they could not accept the regulation. President Sassoli also confirmed at the meeting that the European Parliament considers the statement to be consistent with the agreement on the conditionality regulation. This means that the long-term budget, the recovery package and the conditionality regulation can now be adopted. It is a great success for the German Presidency, and it is a great success for Chancellor Merkel personally. It is also a huge success for Sweden that there is now a legal instrument that points to the link between payments from the EU budget and upholding and respecting the principles of the rule of law. This is something that the government has been pushing for a long time and hard with very strong support from the Swedish Parliament. There Sweden should be proud, I think. Madam President, I would like Covid-19 was again on the agenda for a situation update. As everyone knows, the situation is very serious in large parts of Europe, including Sweden. The Commission's efforts to coordinate Member States' efforts, not least in the procurement of vaccines, were welcomed and the Commission was also invited to take forward work on common guidelines for rapid tests and mutual recognition of test results. The importance of counteracting disinformation about the vaccine was also mentioned. Madam President, I would like After nearly 12 hours of negotiations, the European Council agreed to strengthen the EU's 2030 climate target. Greenhouse gas emissions shall be reduced by at least 55%. It was a very important decision for the EU's climate policy to be in line with the long-term objectives of achieving net zero emissions in 2050, and for the EU to now report its commitment to the UN on time and remain at the forefront of global climate action. The European Council will return to the issue of burden sharing between Member States, including the relationship between emissions allowance costs and compensation from the so-called Modernisation Fund for certain countries. I underlined the important role of sustainable forestry and hydroelectric power in the green transition. Joint actions shall not hinder this, including the possibility of investment. Finland's Prime Minister Sanna Marin shares our view of safeguarding sustainable forestry conditions. Madam President, I would like In view of Turkey's continued provocative action in the eastern Mediterranean, the European Council decided to extend the list under the existing sanction regime. The Commission and High Representative Josep Borrell will come back to the March European Council with a progress report which will also include possible extensions of the existing sanctions regime. While we are now moving forward with restrictive measures, the door is being kept open for positive developments between the EU and Turkey, but a change of course from the Turkish leadership is needed. Furthermore, the European Council adopted the texts on the EU-US relations, security and the Southern Neighbourhood and drew attention to the important agreement reached on a new human rights sanctioning regime. Finally, after the summit, an inclusive Euro Summit was held. The Banking Union and Capital Markets Union were on the agenda. Here, too, the text on the table was adopted. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I think that we from the Swedish side have reason to be satisfied with the outcome of the meeting. It shows that the EU has the ability, in terms of standing together and agreeing on important issues. Sometimes it is difficult, as now with both the climate and the budget, but the fact that it can finally be agreed is a proof of the strength of the cooperation. After all, it gives confidence. This brings me to the end of the report from the European Council.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-483	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. There were several of us who said in the consultation that there were many important and difficult issues to deal with at the Council meeting, and it is now gratifying that we can finally answer! On two of the issues, namely the rule of law mechanism and the climate. The negotiations on the long-term budget have been going on for several years, and there are many parts with which we Moderates have not been particularly satisfied. A negotiation involves compromises, and Sweden has had to compromise with a lot. However, we have been careful not to compromise on the rule of law. We were also critical of the government this summer when we saw that the rule of law mechanism was weakening. It is now gratifying that there is a regulation in place from 1 January. It is historic, great and necessary. But we should not be naive and believe that everything is peaceable and content now. In practice, the rule of law mechanism must mean breaking the negative trend in some EU countries. I am a little worried when I read in the Council conclusions that the European Commission, in close cooperation with the Member States, will draw up guidelines. Can the Prime Minister certify that no weakening of the application of the rule of law mechanism will be accepted? Finally, we also have a significantly improved climate target. The government may not have pinked the market here at home in terms of the clarity in which the case Sweden has pursued, but it is gratifying that the Council now has a goal – and went to the finish. During the consultation last week, several parties raised taxonomics. The Prime Minister said he would mark the issue. I now heard that the Prime Minister has done the same. Sweden cannot accept the current proposal. What response did the Prime Minister receive? The Prime Minister mentioned Finland now, but that is not enough. As we all know, more countries and alliances are needed to achieve success in the work.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-491	Madam President, I would like We are really going to take on board the fact that this regulation is completely new. There hasn't been anything like it before, and that we actually have it in place now is something really big. When guidelines and methods are to be developed in this respect, it is natural, I think, that the Commission has a close dialogue with the Member States. There's nothing strange about that. But it is clear that the regulation that has been adopted and negotiated between the European Parliament and the Council, that is what applies. That is what the Commission has to deal with. So this dialogue with the Member States has nothing to do with any possible watering down of the regulatory framework, but now that is the decision and that is the case. I think it is quite natural for the Commission to have a dialogue with the Member States. With regard to climate and taxonomy, I raised it during the meeting to make it clear that we in Sweden have some natural resources that are extremely important to us. 70% of the country's surface is made up of forest, and we want to make good use of it. We are already doing it well, but we want to be able to do it even better. Then we cannot be prevented by an EU regulatory framework that reduces investment opportunities in forestry. I can't. In addition to Finland, several countries operate the same line. We know who they are – it is Germany, Slovenia and others who have similar forestry as we have and who have been endowed with quite a lot of forest. The President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, was also very clear that there was no such intention on the part of the Commission. We'll have to hold on to that. There is no concrete proposal yet, but this is the focus on taxonomics. Now we have to keep it to the Commission.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-496	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for a clear answer and a clear statement on the rule of law mechanism! As the Prime Minister said at the outset, this is something we agreed on in the Swedish Parliament. As far as taxonomy is concerned, I have now heard that the Prime Minister indicated clearly. I have also heard other ministers say that they have actively pursued the issue of taxonomics, that is, the classification of environmentally sustainable investments. Unfortunately, we can still note in various contributions that it does not seem to be right, and that makes me genuinely worried. Sweden has come a long way in the transition. Our energy mix is already 98 percent fossil-free. I find it sad to hear these voices anyway. However, as I said, we had a consultation with the Prime Minister last week, and there has been discussion in the Committee on Finance today. It's good that you've reacted and woken up now, but it's a little five to twelve. I find it sad that it is happening so late and wonder why. I really hope it's not too late.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-500	Madam President, I would like This is an idea we've had all along, so it's nothing new. I agree that attention should be paid to this discussion and where it goes. Surely there are those who disagree with us. I'm sure it is. The President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, said at the sitting, and I have also spoken bilaterally to her afterwards in a pause in the meeting, that the Commission has no ambition such as I expressed because we see a danger in – that the regulatory framework becomes such that Sweden will find it more difficult to get investments into its forestry. On the contrary, they see the benefits of green forestry as well as of hydroelectric power. If the President of the Commission says so, I think we can start there, and then we will help each other to argue against those who may have a different view and pursue this position. As I said, there is no ready-made proposal yet, but during the journey there we will use this in an offensive way.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-504	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I had also prepared a question on the taxonomy regulation, but since there has been a lot of answers, I will not repeat what has been said. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we want to emphasise the importance of effective advocacy, where we must find more like-minded people. Unfortunately, Parliament and the Council have now given the Commission a delegated act transferring power to the Commission. This makes effective advocacy even more important. Madam President, I would like The budget and the recovery fund were perhaps the most important thing that was decided upon. Swedish taxpayers will now take out loans and then donate to countries in the EU with poor budgetary discipline and/or economies that are very dependent on tourism. There should be instruments to monitor how the funds have been used. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister how the government intends to monitor how these countries use the funds from the fund.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-509	Madam President, I would like With regard to the budget and, for that matter, the Next Generation Europe, there is an enormous amount of money that is intended to be used to build up the economy – or restart it, I should say – after the pandemic. That is 30 percent environmental impact, and 30 percent of the money should also have a climate perspective. The one to follow up, which is ultimately responsible for it, is the Commission. It will follow up and see how the money is spent. It is clear that the European Council must also receive regular reports and ask questions about how it works in that particular part, but it is the Commission that will have the operational responsibility. So is the other, so it's not news. As I said, the Commission is now going to develop methods for how this is to be done in cooperation with the Member States. With so much money, it is clear that everyone has a responsibility to ask how they are used. The Commission will have operational responsibility for this.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-512	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. One of the Centre Party's single most important priorities with regard to the EU is that each Member State should follow a number of basic democratic principles. If you are privileged to be part of the community that the EU means, you must also respect the inviolable importance of the rule of law, the independence of the courts and the importance of free media. If we do not respect these principles, we believe that we should not have full access to EU funding either. We have highlighted this repeatedly over the past year, and it remains one of our most prioritised positions. We therefore welcome the regulation linked to the long-term budget which makes clear demands on conditionality. The fact that Hungary and Poland released their threats of veto against the regulation is a good thing, but until they fully respect the principles of the rule of law at home, the rest of the EU must act forcefully and unisonfully. Hungary is going to elections in 2022, and there is a risk that Orbán will strengthen his grip on power while weakening the opposition and the media for his own gain. Poland has its parliamentary elections in 2023. It is therefore unfortunate that the Council conclusions adopted last week were somewhat weak and unclear. For example, parts of the regulation are to be examined by the EU Court of Justice, which can mean very lengthy legal proceedings of up to a year or more. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how he views this issue and how the discussions went at the European Council. How long does the government think it will take before a mechanism can be in place that is a powerful tool for protecting the rule of law in the EU?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-518	Madam President, I would like Alireza Akhondis question is highly relevant. On the basis of the text in the conclusion, we are very clear about taking our responsibility to defend the values of the Union and stand up for the principles of the rule of law. We agree, for example, that the regulation establishing a general conditionality regime for the protection of the Union's budget aims to protect the Union's budget... against all forms of fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest. ..................................................... As I said before, this is completely new. There's never been anything like it before, so it's definitely on the right track. Getting this in place and implementing it is what requires a time of work. The European Court of Justice will now also be examined. I am not worried about it, because both our own legal experts and the Council say that the clarification that has been made in no way alters the regulation that we have agreed. This will not apply until this process is completed, but it applies from 1 January 2021. This means that even if there is time in between, any errors previously committed, until 1 February 2021, will be included and may be processed under these rules. In view of the demand for the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law, which we all want in all the different situations, it is probably not surprising that this is happening now. However, it is important to say that the rules apply from 2021.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. A much more positive innovation in the EU is the climate target that has now been adopted and which will guide further work towards a sustainable and fossil-free Europe. Although this is an important step in the right direction, we in the Center Party had hoped that the targets would be binding on all Member States and not only on the EU as a whole. If we are to reach the net zero emissions target by 2050, all Member States will have to shoulder their responsibilities. At the same time, it is clear that different countries will have different conditions for switching to a fossil-free society. Political will also differs between countries. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how the government views the continued work on climate change within the EU. What does the Prime Minister think of the way forward? Where can progress be made, and where are the potential locks? How can we ensure that all 27 countries contribute to the transition?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-528	Madam President, I would like This is a collective goal; it is right. However, it also states that all Member States should contribute, and that is what needs to be developed now. It is, of course, under the Commission's operational responsibility to come back to what this may mean economically, socially and environmentally for all Member States. We have different starting points; there is no doubt about that. That is also what is reflected in this. You have to do it individually, but everyone has to participate. It was very hard for Poland, not least, to agree to this at all. Now we've moved the positions. Now, as I said before, we also have a budget which states that 30% of the budget and the entire Next Generation EU package should have climate adaptation and a climate perspective. There are major drivers for the further development of the ETS, among other things. Let us come back when all the Member States have received their commitments.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-531	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Now the European Council has decided on at least 55% reduction in emissions by 2030 and calls on Parliament and the Commission to do the same. I hope that the Council's decision does not mean that Parliament lowers the climate law target but that it maintains that it should be higher than 60% and preferably 70%. I would like to repeat what we from the Left Party have said before: it is unfortunate that Sweden has brought forward various objectives. The climate requires that we agree and that we have high common goals. I would like to know what Sweden wants with regard to the EU's emission reduction targets. Is it at least 55%, is it at least 60% or are there other targets? According to the Prime Minister, the declaration on the conditionality regulation is without prejudice to the rule of law. However, there are many wordings in the statement that can open the way for the negative countries to continue to procrastinate. I want to know how the Prime Minister views it and how the Prime Minister thinks that these delays should be avoided. Finally, I would like to mention Turkey. It is a good thing that the Council has now discussed extending the list, and I hope that this will happen. But I also hope that in the future the Council will go even further and end all payments of EU aid to Turkey that actually enable Turkey to continue to push and challenge the EU.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-537	Madam President, I would like In the European Council unanimity is required, so if only one country says so, there will be no such thing. What the countries of the European Council agree on is at least 55%. We've been pushing all along to get it higher than that, but we're not getting there. Then you have to choose: either you stand at 40% and content yourself with it because you did not get exactly what you wanted or you take a step and raise your ambition to 55% reduction. We had the support of the Parliament to do this, and that is why we have now come to this conclusion. However, it says at least 55%; that does not mean that it has to be exactly 55%. We will keep pushing to gradually raise the target. I believe that we have a momentum in many countries and that we can see that this is no longer seen merely as a threat or as something to take the economy backwards. On the contrary, I think we are seeing what we are doing: this is an opportunity. Now we have at least 55%, but let's press. We want to see this increase, and then we have the opportunity to work towards an increased goal and an improved ambition. That is what Sweden wants. Now, however, we have come here, and that is progress in itself. As for the discussion on the conditionality regulation, I do not know what Ilona Szatmari Waldau means by delaying, so I find it difficult to relate to that. But the regulation applies. It is the one to be implemented, and it is important to see it that way. We have talked about Turkey a number of times before. Payments to Turkey have been significantly reduced. I think, however, that we should remain in contact with, not least, civil society and the opposition in Turkey; I think this is important.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-542	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. However, I did not receive an answer to my question as to what objective the Swedish Government believes the European Union should adopt. I just heard that the target can be raised and that it can be raised over time. Here I want to make it clear that we do not have time to wait; the climate cannot wait. I would like answers to what is the objective we think we should pursue in Europe.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-543	Madam President, I would like We have pursued this along with other like-minded countries, and then we have reached at least 55%. If we hadn't come to that conclusion, we'd still be at 40%. I think a 55% reduction is better than a 40% reduction. But it says at least 55, and I think we will then have an opportunity to form opinion for more. I believe, as I said, that we now have a momentum where more and more people see that this is the way forward and that it is precisely this change that not only – although it is important enough – will save the climate but also includes the new jobs and future welfare. The more people see it, the more it is possible to move the positions further forward. Now we have set at least 55%, and that means at least 55%.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-545	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report of a meeting in which many important issues were discussed. Above all, it was really at the eleventh hour that decisions on long-term budgets and corona packages, which are due to come into force at the turn of the year, came into place. It was also extremely important that a decision was taken on the climate targets. The issue of the rule of law was also important. Although we do not now know how to apply this mechanism, because it is new, we naturally hope – and believe – that this is something that will have a real impact on the conditionality of how we pay out of the EU budget. Perhaps what we Christian Democrats are most concerned about is the part which deals with so-called own resources and what this can mean in the future in the form of new levies and taxes. After all, we are opposed to taxes at EU level and hope that the government will continue to take the same approach. What will happen next in this area? The idea is, of course, that all questions of own resources should be taken nationally in Parliament. When does the Prime Minister estimate that concrete proposals regarding new own resources will come to Parliament? Covid-19 was also on the agenda. It was about vaccines, testing capacity and a health union. We are a little concerned that, in the long run, the proposal may involve the transfer of competence in the field of health from national to European level. When the question was discussed, what was the Prime Minister's view of what a Health Union will mean for Sweden? Will there be mutual recognition of rapid tests, as the Prime Minister spoke about? It's been up several times, at different meetings. But I've never heard any results.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-551	Madam President, I would like If we start at the last end, with a health union, the answer is that we should coordinate more. We see that it has had enormous significance. Of course we can do more in cooperation. But it should not involve any transfer of skills. The Treaty applies. That's what we have to deal with. However, not least on the issue of vaccines, we have seen a huge success. A year ago, we didn't know what covid-19 was. We've been told that. But we also know that, thank God, we can soon start vaccinating the citizens. In the beginning we said, "It probably takes a number of years for a vaccine to come." That's what we saw in front of us. Now we can very likely soon start vaccinating. It is cooperation in the EU that has made it possible. The resources that the Member States and the EU have been able to put in place have enabled companies that can develop vaccines, with the money allocated to them, to make a real effort. When it comes to testing, I think it has been 30 000 – 40 000 people who have tested. That would not have been possible unless we had supported it. When it comes to rapid tests, I can't answer that. But the kind of coordination that we have had with the vaccine we want to see more of in order to be able to approve each other's test results, to coordinate how we can lift restrictions, so that the trips can be carried out in a safe way and so on. But it is also a question of resilience, building it together and having more preparedness, for example, in such situations. Coordination and cooperation are therefore key words there. As far as taxes are concerned, we are very clear that there should be no EU taxes. If there is to be something, there must be some kind of fee that you can use. But tax competence, tax decisions, should lie with the Member States and no one else.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-555	Madam President, I would like I hope that the tax issue really stays at national level. I believe that we will have major discussions on own resources in the future. I think we should get back to that question. As far as the Health Union is concerned, there are a lot of issues about pharmaceutical strategies and such in it. One of the most important industries in Sweden is the pharmaceutical industry. It also accounts for one of our large export revenues. That is why it is very important that the government does not overlook it in that discussion. Turkey's action is extremely serious. The EU must be prepared to take further restrictive measures. Finally, I would like to ask about Belarus, which did not come up. How does the Prime Minister of Belarus see, and how is the discussion going about what more can be done to support civil society in Belarus and to get a new regime in the country?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-559	Madam President, I would like As far as Belarus is concerned, Désirée Pethrus and I are in complete agreement. We must be clear with regard to the regime. It was not free, fair or transparent elections, but something else. Therefore, our view is that the regime is not legitimate. I met with Tikhanovskaya when she visited Sweden, and it was precisely civil society she raised. What made a very strong impression on me when she said that there is now a risk of a situation in which civil society feels abandoned. That must never happen. That's the most important thing. What the EU and we can do nationally, including with the help of Swedish organisations and we as political leaders, is to ensure that there are resources for our organisations so that they can stay in touch. The fact that we ourselves express support for these organisations is very important now.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-562	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your accounting. It is gratifying that the EU has now agreed to tighten the climate targets and thus reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030, although we Liberals would have liked to have seen an even tougher target. In order to achieve the goal, it is important to focus on the types of energy that are fossil-free. We are therefore still concerned about the taxonomy being developed. The Prime Minister has answered questions about that. We will probably come back to this anyway. I would like to return to the long-term budget. We have long been pushing for respect for the principles of the rule of law as a prerequisite for countries to be able to benefit from the EU's common funds. The long-term budget that has now been decided takes historic steps in this direction, as the Minister of State has indicated. But the proposal does not go all the way. The requirement for the European Court of Justice to approve the proposal before it can be used remains. According to experts, this may lead to several years before any financial support can be withdrawn. I therefore wonder whether the Prime Minister sees that there is any possibility of taking action in order for the European Court of Justice to be able to give a rapid advance ruling on the proposal.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-566	Madam President, I would like As far as the climate is concerned, I also think we need to come back to the discussion on taxonomy. That pressure must be maintained. No decisions have been made there. We have expressed clearly how we view it. There are several who do so with us. But I mean just like Malin Danielsson that there is every reason to keep that pressure up. That's absolutely right. With regard to the budget and the fact that it does not go all the way, I do not really share that view. A court review does not mean that you don't go all the way. We have checked it with both our own and the Council's legal experts. They believe that the statement made does not alter the regulation agreed by the Council with Parliament. It's right there. Court review is not, therefore, an evil in itself. It could have happened anyway. Almost any Member State can request it at any time, I was about to say. So it's not a concession. It is done, and it is part of the legal certainty proposal. I don't mind a court hearing. On the other hand, you can ask for a trial as quickly as possible. Everyone sees that this is of great importance. Regardless of when that process ends, the regulation will apply from 1 January next year. Thus, even if there is a review later, let us say in two years' time, events, payments and commitments will be examined from 1 January 2021. So no one gets away during these two years. In that case, it may come later.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-570	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. I note that there is nevertheless a risk that Hungary's Viktor Orbán will do everything possible to delay the process so that no support for Hungary can be withdrawn before the elections in that country. It may affect the Hungarian elections. It would be a setback to the historic success that we are seeing now. I hear the Prime Minister says that the process will be followed. I look forward to our joint pressure for a rule of law that operates on the basis of the fundamental principles of law.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-573	Madam President, I would like Me and Malin Danielsson are in agreement.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-574	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It is not easy for 27 Member States to agree on crucial future issues. But there is undeniably a desire to find common solutions. This shows, not least, last week's summit. The fact that we now finally have a long-term budget in place and for the first time in the history of the European Union has an opportunity to stop payments to countries that violate the principles of the rule of law is extremely important and something that we have long fought for. It is also gratifying, as many in this House have mentioned, that all Member States have agreed on higher ambitions in climate policy and a binding target for emission reductions of at least 55% by 2030. Nevertheless, I think it is worth mentioning that Sweden's ambitions are higher than that and that the Prime Minister and the Government have set their sights on Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free country. Of course, the agreed target of at least 55% is not achieved by itself. The decision presupposes that all Member States assume their responsibilities. What efforts does the Prime Minister think the EU should prioritise in order to accelerate the development from fossil-dependent to fossil-free societies? Is it in the transport sector? Is it in the energy sector? What does the Prime Minister think is most important?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-578	Madam President, I would like I believe that all sectors should contribute. It is expressed in the budget that 30% is dedicated, but the idea is broader than that the budget itself should deal with this. There is an expression that obeys do no harm, and this is important. The transport sector must contribute; there is no doubt about it. It is so both inside and outside Sweden. But all sectors must contribute. It is therefore important to target more budget resources for the various sectors so that they can set emission reduction targets. In the transport sector, it is a question of moving more to rail. What needs to be driven by truck should be driven with clean trucks and so on. Only goals are set and sufficient perseverance will be achieved in the right direction. We see this in Sweden. One area under discussion is the emission allowances. How can emissions trading be made more efficient to help reduce emissions? Sweden made a good effort a number of years ago when we simply cancelled a number of allowances. This increases the price of emissions and reduces emissions. The discussion continues on how emissions trading can be made more efficient in order to contribute to an even greater reduction. This is a clear area where we need to do more.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-583	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. We have finally landed a climate target, and as we have heard, it was at least 55%. However, it is not enough because it is not in line with science. As I mentioned at the European Council before the summit, it is not possible to negotiate with the laws of nature. Both the Green Party and the government would have liked to go further. At the same time, it is historic that the EU has gathered around this objective. This leads the EU to take the lead as a climate leader continent, which is very valuable. On the open European Council, I raised the question of net targets and that we are concerned that this will undermine the ambition of the target. It is important to safeguard the ambition and integrity of the target so that it is not possible to fiddle through some kind of creative accounting. I also mentioned emissions trading, which is the EU's single most important tool. After all, this came up at the Council meeting, and the Prime Minister reported that it would come back with emissions allowance costs. Now negotiations with Parliament are waiting, and Parliament is behind 60%. My two questions are: how does the Prime Minister view the possibility of tightening up emissions trading? How likely does the Prime Minister think it is that we can now achieve a good ambition for the objective of its integrity, in relation to the net objective?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-589	Madam President, I would like As far as net and gross targets are concerned, it is important that we watch out. Of course, sinks will also be counted, and that possibility exists. But for us, it is important to be concerned that emissions should be reduced. We should not save this by increasing sinks, but emissions must be reduced. Judging by the Swedish investments in the steel industry, the mining industry and battery production, more and more will be about reducing emissions. However, we need to be on the line to ensure that emissions are reduced, because that is of course the best thing. Emissions trading is a part of this, and it is therefore up for discussion how it can be made more efficient. Part of the money from the emissions trading scheme goes to a fund that supports the transition. On the basis of the debate last week, many countries would like to see that there is no deterioration in this aid. This applies, for example, to Poland, which we all know has a long way to go because of its energy mix of oil, coal and gas and only a small part of renewables. Poland therefore needs to know that the emissions allowance scheme will continue to allow them to change. It'll probably be an important parameter. We are going to push for an effective emissions trading system that reduces emissions, because they must be reduced.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-594	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for a clear answer. Finally, I would like to repeat a few of what has been said in the past. As far as democracy and the rule of law are concerned, it is just as the Prime Minister said historically that the strengthened regulatory framework is in place. The opposition in Hungary has responded positively to this, and it is very good that the rule of law mechanism is adopted by qualified majority so that Poland and Hungary can no longer hold each other back with veto. As the Prime Minister also said, the regulations negotiated with Parliament are intact. The criticism is that it is afraid that it will be delayed in the European Court of Justice for several years. However, I have also heard a year. It is therefore good if Sweden can have an eagle eye on this so that there is no attempt at procrastination. It is certainly in the interests of the Riksdag to be able to follow these developments on an ongoing basis.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-597	Madam President, I would like I can only agree. It is important that we keep track of the process so that it becomes as it is intended. The regulation is in place. Parliament also took the view that the statement made did not conflict with the regulation, and legal experts have said that it does not change its purpose. Now the regulation is to be implemented. I would have liked to have seen it fixed and finished on 1 January, but that is not possible for practical reasons. However, the application applies from 1 January 2021, so even if there are later processes, it applies from the end of the year.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-599	Madam President, I would like I felt compelled to request a reply after what the government said about SD. The cuts raised by the Government are purely administrative cuts. One can make profits by coordinating administration, and that money can of course go to teaching and research. It's good and something everyone benefits from. With regard to the research grant that we are taking away from the artistic colleges, we are transferring this money crown for crown to the basic grant. This must be understood when reading the table. They don't lose a single crown on this. We simply transfer the funding from research to their basic funding. Is it Victor Orbán who has proposed such a model? No, it's Pam Fredman in the final investigation. As far as the freedom of higher education institutions is concerned, we really want more freedom, not less, as I have pointed out many times now. We want two things. The first is that the research and teaching that takes place should follow the Higher Education Act and be based on science. They did a huge restoration in Norway when they removed things that did not meet the requirements, and then it is Norway we are talking about, not Hungary. The second is that the freedom of higher education institutions should be increased and that post-modernist ideology should not be imposed on teachers when funding is sought. For example, Erik Ringmar should not be forced to have student literature by Judith butler when he holds courses in history. The difference between the Government and me is that the Government wants Ringmar to be forced to include the book in the literature list while I want more freedom. No teacher should be forced into books in his course literature. I think it is the opposite of Orbán's policy.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-606	We are looking at it a little wonder because we do not usually mention individuals who do not participate in the debate. We don't usually name them in chamber debates unless they're public figures.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-607	Madam President, I would like I just want to put on record that it is the Swedish Democrats who draw the parallels to a particular person and country. What I very clearly state is that there is an absolutely straight line in what the Swedish Democrats are putting forward in their authoritarian, right-wing, far-right ideology. It is an ideological starting point in how you see that free research should be restricted and which research is worthy of being carried out from a political point of view or not. It is part of the ideological tradition in which the Swedish Democrats find themselves together with others around the world. It is still remarkable that it was at Malmö University and Södertörn University that there were some administrative gains so that you could make cuts there. It is surely with precision that you can reduce all the artistic colleges in the artistic research. It was precisely where the Swedish Democrats found the changes in higher education and research. In addition, the Swedish Democrats Robert Stenkvist was very clear in his speech that he and the party do not think that gender equality is particularly important or something that a free academy and a free research should devote itself to. I maintain that this is the same authoritarian path that we see other examples of in our surrounding world, where both art and free research are under threat and where authoritarian right-wing conservative governments restrict both education and research based on their ideology. It's not a path that I and the government are going to take. We intend to stand up for free research.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-611	Madam President, I would like These colleges happen to be very close to each other. It is 30 kilometres between Lund University and Malmö University, and the same with Mälardalen University and Södertörn University. These are geographical areas of precision, Madam President. No, we do not want to ban any research, more than is being done today. It is advice – the Swedish Research Council and the other councils – that decides who will receive funding or not. Not everyone gets grants; there are a lot of people who don't. Is it authoritarian government to deny subsidies? The government controls with its regulatory letters. I believe that our regulatory letters would be less governing than the government and give more freedom. If we do not want to impose course literature on teachers, are we authoritarian? After all, it is the government, or what expires from the government, which is authoritarian and which imposes on teachers course literature. We don't want to do that. If you want a book from Judith butler, you can have it. Do what you want! That is what we are saying. We want less binding rules than the government wants. How to make it authoritarian, I don't understand. We want more freedom, not less freedom.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-614	Madam President, I would like I understand if the Swedish Democrats are having a bit of a hard time understanding. Just take one such thing that is put forward here in the debate: that it is the government that decides the course literature at our universities and colleges. That's a fake. That's not true. The government doesn't. So I understand if it is a bit difficult for the Swedish Democrats to understand. But I can help the Swedish Democrats. Here's the thing: In the authoritarian, right-wing, far-right ideological tradition where the Swedish Democrats find themselves, what Robert Stenkvist and the Swedish Democrats express is a straight line. That is exactly what we see happening in other parts of the world. This clearly shows that we must protect free research and the free academy and that the free search for knowledge at our universities and colleges is a defence of democracy. I intend to continue to stand up for this.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-616	Madam President, I would like I will begin by answering the Government's question about opportunities for more people to study at college and universities. The question arose when it was introduced that all vocational education and training should be three-year and theoretical and also pre-graduate. Then the concern was that not everyone who was not motivated to study wanted to go to high school. There was a big discussion about what was to be done, whereupon the Moderates changed their mind and said that instead one should be able to opt out of the university preparatory subjects. You can choose to have vocational training without those subjects, or you can keep them. Then, of course, you can repent later in life – you might want to read on anyway. Then, of course, there are possibilities to supplement. Once you have done so, it is important that the university exam remains as a second chance. Even Moderates can change when things get wrong. We therefore want there to be preparatory vocational training in higher education, but we want to be able to opt out of the preparatory subjects of higher education. Then I have some questions about the research bill, which the Government mentioned. We are very much in favour of what we have heard so far. Of course, we haven't heard everything yet. I don't know if we should call it Christmas present or not; I guess it's gonna have to be seen in a few days. What we want to be sure of is that the great financial effort also increases the quality and that it does not become more of the same that already exists and that is perhaps not quite enough. The last question concerns the investments in student health and how they should be done. It is a very important question, and the quality varies a lot between different student health services. I myself have been on the board of the Academy Health Service and saw that the need was very great but that it was also very limited how much student health was given and could do. Therefore, I would like to hear how initiatives are to be made on student health.
i-PwrAfUqbHkn2jncPgx5sgo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström and the Moderates! What I reacted to was that the moderate Member of Parliament was very happy about the opportunity she had had to go to both college and university herself and also expressed that this is important in order to be able to stand strong in not least the labour market. At the same time, it is quite obvious that the Moderates belong to those who removed and restricted the possibility of higher education qualifications for all students attending upper secondary education programmes. It is not possible to say anything other than that this shows a view of man and society where not everyone should have it quite as easy to move on to higher education. I don't share that vision. I think that if you have the knowledge, ambition, opportunity and will, you should have the opportunity to move on to higher education. We also know that we have very large professional areas that need more trained staff and require higher education – teachers, nurses, engineers and others. I think you have to take responsibility for the policy that you represent yourself. I look forward very much to presenting the research innovation bill as a whole. Of course, Swedish research is based on quality. This is also something that we, together with like-minded people in Europe, are pushing for too clearly, because it is clear that we should have the best research of the highest quality. I feel very confident that this is what we will be able to continue with an almost 10% increase in the research and innovation budget in time. Yes, it is additional money that we allocate to student health. We see that it is necessary, not least now that many students are working hard with distance studies when they should actually have been on campus.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-624	Madam President, I would like I would like to explain once again to the Government that the Moderates had the view that it is important to be able to attend high school. When students chose not to attend upper secondary school, we made it possible to opt out of the preparatory subjects. But we have changed our mind and said that it is important that the opportunity exists. We certainly think it should be possible. I'm still very happy that I've had the opportunity, and I want many others to have it too. We therefore think that all students should have the opportunity to attend three-year high school, which is pre-school. However, those who want to go to vocational training and do not want to have the theoretical part should have the opportunity to opt out of it. It will be possible to supplement later. Because upper secondary education is also very important, although it is of course important to go further and further. We are therefore still concerned that some people who think it is too theoretically choose not to go to high school, but the picture is that everyone should have the opportunity to read the education they want. You have the right to do that. As far as research in Europe is concerned, there has been a great deal of concern in the world of research, precisely because less money has been spent in Europe than in the past. We have discussed this before. Less money is invested in research, which makes you feel a great concern that the quality of research will decrease both within the EU and in Sweden. However, I look forward to the bill, of course. I also hope that what I am saying is not true but that we will invest even more than we have done in the past and that we will be of a high standard and not be lost, which we are still becoming right now.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-627	Madam President, I would like In relation to bnp, Sweden is among the countries that spend most on research and development, namely 3.4 per cent of bnp. However, it is not something that allows us to sit back, but rather we have to realise that we need to do a little more if we are to maintain that position. That is also why we have been able to negotiate a 10% increase in research and innovation in the coming years, and we are extremely strong already next year – in this research and innovation bill, the budget for research and innovation is nine times as big a year as it has been in the past. This is in order for us to be a leading country also in terms of research. The budget is negotiated in the middle of Swedish politics, and I am very happy about that. Some where we also strengthen Swedish research is about us announcing that Mälardalen University will become Mälardalen University. It will give an enormous development power not only to this region but also to Swedish research and the Swedish research community. There is therefore a lot of excitement here that will strengthen quality but also ensure that we have research throughout the country. Only last week I met one of the Nobel Laureates, and she received a Nobel Prize for research that she had done at Umeå University. I don't know how Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström sees it, but some of her ideologically related leadership sites – one might say – usually aren't entirely for us to have higher education, colleges and universities all over the country. Umeå University may not be considered a prestigious university by some, but I think it is a fantastic university. The Nobel Laureate also said herself that it was crucial for her to carry out her research at Umeå University, with the conditions that existed there, and this clearly shows the importance of strengthening research throughout our country.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-630	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the insights we received in the research bill to be presented, Minister Matilda Ernkrans! What I want to talk about now, however, is not research but basic education. We agree that it is good that higher education institutions and universities are being expanded with more places so that more of our young people and others can choose to study, but I lack information about what the government plans to reduce the drop-out. I mentioned it in my speech, but the Council of State did not mention it in its speech. We know that our universities and universities have worked very hard and managed well to switch to digital teaching, but at the same time we see that the dropout has increased much more than the number of new entrants at the universities and universities. It could be an indication that it has not worked so well and that students who may not come from study homes for various reasons have not been able to pass the studies. I would therefore like to know a little bit about how the Government intends to solve that problem, if we can call it a problem. I note that in the budget there is no extension of the money to, that is, the allowance for, each student. We have this in the draft budget of the Left Party precisely so that we can work more with students and provide better educational support. Today, we also lack guidelines on what educational support should look like. I think all universities work well on this, but there is no consensus and no guideline. As a result, there are shortcomings here and there.
i-84PyEfXBmhpETizXKgf2DY	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Ilona Szatmari Waldau! I would like to start by saying that it is really a historic expansion of the university that we are capable of doing. I think it is right now when the pandemic is testing us and when more people actually want and will be able to get through higher education. There are 19 000 more training places for 2021, and we are making strategic research efforts. We are thus increasing the strategic research grant, the basic grant, to our universities and colleges by 900 million permanently. We are also making an extra effort of 500 million already next year in order to cope with the expansion of higher education and be able to connect with research. We have also heard here in the debate about the education lift that will be presented in the research and innovation bill. We invest in student unions, and we invest in student health, and all of this we do, of course, to ensure that our students get the very best conditions to get through their programmes in this pandemic anyway. They should be able to graduate and continue into the working life strengthened after the education. Having said that, I want to make it clear that we put a lot of focus on ensuring that the students actually pass the education they have entered. It's important. But I think that the Left Party should perhaps be a little careful about how to use numbers. Counting the percentage of the growth and drop-out figures gives a completely different size picture than counting natural persons and the number of adopted persons. Take Karlstad University, for example: They have taken in 1 881 more, and the drop-out is 215. The figures are correct, but if you count this as a percentage, the admission rate is 16% and the dropout rate is 104%. It'll be very strange to count it as a percentage.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-637	Madam President, I would like You can keep explaining different percentages just because there are few people, but the fact remains that the drop-out from several of our universities and universities has increased. I think it is more important to take that signal to heart and discuss how it can be addressed than to attack the figures themselves. I would have liked a better answer, quite simply. We agree that the expansion of the number of training places is important, and I think it is a good initiative from the government. The Left Party has certainly welcomed it and fully supports it. But when you increase the number of places you also increase the admissions, and then, for example, students who do not come from a study experience background. They may need more and extra support, and then you need to review how you work with the pedagogical support. I don't think the government mentioned it. Finally, I would like to touch on the fact that the Government took up the initiative in the student unions. The Left Party really thinks it is good that the government is finally investing in the student unions, but the effort would have to be twice as big to cover the need. There was an investigation of what the student unions would need when the student union was abolished, but those sums never went out to the student unions. Instead, they became much lower. Now the government has added half of what is needed if you want the student unions to do the same work as they did when all students had to be members of the student union. I therefore welcome the initiative, but it is not enough.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-640	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that we are making an historic expansion. It is important to meet not least a changing labour market based on the pandemic. We follow this up with major investments in strategic research funding for universities and higher education institutions, which allows us to manage the research link when we also expand higher education. We do an education lift, we invest in student unions and we invest in student health. This, I think, shows the government's commitment to our having a high-quality higher education where our students at universities and colleges can feel good and pass their studies. Then, of course, you always have to work with higher education. It is something that has become even more evident during the pandemic. Many universities and colleges also bear witness to the fact that further efforts are now being made to provide distance education that has previously been provided on campus. However, I would like to say this: if there is anything that we should take with us from this debate on higher education and research, it is surely that we should be careful about facts and statistics. Then I think – it has nothing to do with belittling the problem, and I have also shown what we are doing – that it is a bit wasteful to make these comparisons as a percentage. We can look at Karlstad University. Yes, there are 215 dropouts, but there are also 1,881 new people admitted to education. It will be a more accurate picture of what has actually happened, for example at Karlstad University, if we use those figures. I think we need to take responsibility for this together.
i-RCwbsJCEkvewCmvZ6qGeuz	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 20 General Protection of the Environment and Nature. For the Moderates, it is a matter of course to cherish our nature and our waters and leave a better planet for future generations. The climate issue is, by its very nature, cross-border, and the ultimate objective of our climate policy must be global emissions reductions to keep the rise in temperature well below two degrees, preferably one and a half degrees, in line with the Paris Agreement. Within this framework, we in Sweden must show leadership in order to achieve our own national goals and do so in a way that combines climate with growth and prosperity, thus inspiring other countries to follow. Unfortunately, government policy is sprawling and ineffective. Sweden's emissions do not decrease at the required rate. On average, emissions have decreased by less than 1% per year since 2014, according to the Climate Policy Council, and this morning we received figures for 2019 confirming that emissions are decreasing too slowly to reach our targets. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind. It is easy to lose hope when the world is painted in gloomy colors, but where some see darkness, the Moderates see the light. The truth is, we know what has to happen, but we have to roll up our sleeves and do it. Politics must remove obstacles to the great technological leaps and hopeful progress that we see around us – SSAB that wants to produce steel without coal, LKAB with its fossil-free iron sponge and Northvolt that wants to produce sustainable batteries. Most car companies are now investing in electrification, and more and more are buying an emission-free electric car. The great technological leaps that we need here and now are based on one crucial thing: that there is access to fossil-free electricity so that it is enough for both industry and transport to be able to switch. While the government, against better knowledge, denies rising electricity prices and shortages in parts of the country, the Moderates think it's serious now. We are making a strong investment in increased electricity generation, expanded electricity grids and a charging infrastructure throughout the country. Both climate and growth require a policy that takes the big issues seriously and makes the transformation possible throughout Sweden. Until 2045, we will need 60 percent more electricity, probably more, as LKAB's new investment in fossil-free iron sponge alone requires an increased use of electricity equivalent to one third of Sweden's current energy consumption. Therefore, the Moderates want to develop all our fossil-free energies. We want research into and development of renewable energy sources, but also new nuclear power with small modular reactors. We want to see a new energy policy target of 100% fossil-free. We also require shorter licensing processes for expansion and investments in the electricity grids so that the electricity is there and when it is needed. In addition to industry, the transport sector also screams for more electricity. Today, politics requires people to buy an electric car but does not meet up at the other end. What could be more of a government responsibility than helping to build the necessary infrastructure? The Moderates are investing in their budget of 1 billion, twice as much as the government, in the rapid expansion of charging poles for passenger cars throughout the country and in support of charging stations for trucks. Technology development is rapid, Madam President, and the support must be technology neutral and can be used for electricity, electric roads and also hydrogen filling stations. Sweden's industry is at the forefront, technologically and environmentally. Through its exports of goods produced with small carbon footprints, it contributes to reductions in emissions globally. At the same time, industry accounts for one third of our emissions. That is why it is central to Moderate policy to bring those emissions down. We are expanding the industrial life to really support the industry in developing and investing in new technologies. We also want to put in place a large-scale effort to capture and store carbon dioxide, so-called CCS and bio-CCS. The technology can really create both large emission reductions and even negative emissions. As early as 2021, we want a financing model in place to support those companies that want to invest in this technology. Now that we see that our neighbour Norway is stepping forward and making a decision in the big city to build a storage site for carbon dioxide, we obviously want Swedish carbon dioxide to be stored there. We must keep pace and acknowledge the great opportunity that it means being able to capture and store carbon dioxide. In order to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, the transition to biofuels is also an important part. With a forest industry and agriculture at the forefront, we have enormous opportunities in Sweden to produce sustainable biofuels that are needed in our cars, for example. But despite the fact that in Sweden we already exempt about one third of our forests from use, the government wants to exempt even more, despite the fact that the forest is crucial in the climate change. The Moderates want us to build houses made of wood, make clothes made of wood and drive our cars on fuels from the Swedish forest. Then we cannot only protect more forest; we must also use our forest. We are investing in green fuel support to develop and support large-scale domestic production of biofuels. Madam President, I would like Environmental issues are more than just carbon dioxide. Sweden has one of Europe's longest coasts. Many of us live and work close and depend on our water. At the same time, we know that, not least, the Baltic Sea suffers from historical sins. Moderates are pushing for a clean and healthy Baltic Sea through both national and international measures to reduce eutrophication, environmental toxins and litter. We also focus on advanced water treatment, the recovery of hazardous waste and research, as well as on safe drinking water supply and a national knowledge council for drinking water. The Moderates are concerned that areas with high natural values should be protected but that they must also be taken care of. There is a management deficit today, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. We have simply protected more than we have been able to take care of. Moderates therefore increase resources for management of valuable nature and also strengthen biodiversity through pollination measures. We also know that people experience litter as a problem. Garbage gives rise to more litter and insecurity. Therefore, we give an extended knowledge assignment to Keep Sweden clean, but we also want to impose fines, a kind of penalty fee, for those who throw small litter like snuff, butts and gum in our nature. Madam President, I would like There is much to be said in this area, but clearly it is crucial that politics today and we in this House take responsibility for our common environment – both for the people and animals on our planet today and for future generations.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-658	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that I very much welcome Moderates' commitment to the environmental issue. Much of what Jessica Rosencrantz has raised is also something that the Social Democrats and of course the whole government are behind. Jessica Rosencrantz particularly highlighted SSAB, LKAB, Northvolt and the amazing intentions that exist when it comes to electrification. As a social democrat, I am truly convinced that the transition must take place, that it must take place now, that it must take place throughout Sweden and that it must be fair. I can't help but wonder that the Moderates have so warmly embraced the Industrial Cave but then completely miss the other part that exists with the Climate Cave. Jessica Rosencrantz particularly raised that the conversion needs to be made possible throughout Sweden, and that is something that I really embrace and think sounds fantastic. But the conversion will only be possible throughout Sweden if we get it to happen at all levels – in the business world, in municipalities and regions and with all the people who live around Sweden. We'll need both of them. Then we need the Industriklivet but also the Climate Klivet. I wonder, therefore, how the Moderates have reasoned when one is embraced but not the other, because they are intimately connected so that we can seriously reduce emissions.
i-Wg5kjxvjPCRKy3zdnsNhG	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Hanna Westerén! I can begin by saying that it is gratifying that we have a common understanding in many parts. I think it is important that we have a broad consensus in Swedish politics on many of the main features of this important issue. When it comes to climate change, it is no secret that the Moderates have been criticising this initiative for a long time. The government spends 2 billion on this individual budget line. The initiative has been condemned by expert after expert from, for example, Riksrevisionen and Konjunkturinstitutet. It is not that I doubt the good intentions of the government, but we are calling for our tax money to be spent on measures that we know are producing results. I note that the Swedish National Audit Office's review concluded, for example, that Climate Change is not part of an effective combination of instruments to achieve the transport target. I do not doubt, as I said, that there are good intentions, but I do not think it wise to spend the 2 billion on this effort that experts estimate is very costly in relation to the emission reductions that it gives rise to. I think there are smarter ways. For example, we are making a major effort to expand the charging infrastructure. There we believe that the state really has a commitment. The state has an even greater responsibility to ensure that there is a public charging infrastructure along our roads than it has to help install home charging. There, the government's efforts have been lagging behind year after year. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that if there is somewhere that one can go in from the state, it is where there are market failures, such as the public charging infrastructure. We are making that particular effort in our budget. We simply do not share the view that climate change is a smart way to achieve emission reductions. We can do better things for taxpayers' money.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-668	Madam President, I would like Of course, I respect the attitude towards climate change. One can certainly land in various conclusions in Swedish politics. However, I call for a perspective that goes hand in hand, that of course it highlights the change in industry – it is extremely central, as well as the fleet of vehicles – but it has to be connected and done throughout Sweden. I believe that climate change will increasingly prove to have very positive effects. I note in particular that Jessica Rosencrantz highlights our expert authorities. If you look at what the expert authorities think, you can see that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that emissions are actually going down. There are positive figures there. Another expert authority, highlighted by the honourable Member himself, namely the Institute for Economic Development, notes that the absolute best and most effective way to reduce emissions is to significantly increase the tax on petrol. Is there something the Moderates are prepared to do for the climate?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-671	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think that the Industriklivet and the Climate Klivet are two completely different things. The industrial life is about helping industries with investments in the billions class that can really reduce emissions radically in Sweden. Climate change goes to everything and nothing and is an incredibly sprawling support system that the Moderates or experts don't think is a sensible way to go. As far as CO2 taxes are concerned, I agree with the expert authorities who point out that the CO2 tax is one of the most effective tools we have. That is also why Sweden has one of Europe's highest fuel taxes, and we support that. Then we think that one can still discuss what level they should be at, because people must have an honest chance to change. We are making a twice as big an investment in charging infrastructure compared to the government. But until there is an opportunity for people to drive electric cars throughout Sweden, it must be possible to get their lives together here and now, and then we cannot have as high fuel taxes as we like. It is important to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time, we mean.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-675	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the only reservation in this report, and it is from the Swedish Democrats. Despite the pandemic, environmental and, perhaps, climate issues continue to be high on the political agenda. I'm glad to hear that. At the same time, the pandemic may call for some reflection. Despite a massive fall in demand of a rare kind in world economies, emissions are only expected to fall by about 7 percentage points this year. Oil prices are now at about the same price level as before the outbreak of the pandemic, and demand has been driven in particular by China and increased agricultural production in South America. We can count on emissions to increase again in 2021 driven by economic growth and dependence on fossil energy. Madam President, I would like This is also what must be the focus when it comes to climate policy: enabling a transition from fossil energy to fossil-free energy. The Swedish Democrats therefore advocate increased investment in research and development. This is about a major investment in a new research reactor in Sweden. In view of the fact that nuclear energy accounts for almost half of our electricity supply, state support for nuclear research has been extremely modest for a long time. In order to achieve new, modern and even more secure nuclear power in Sweden, a high level of national competence is also needed, and this requires increased support. We therefore want to invest in a state-funded fourth-generation nuclear research reactor in order to re-use the spent nuclear fuel. Madam President, I would like In addition to this effort, we also want to see a new grant for innovative environmental technologies. The idea is to support research and development globally and at an earlier stage than is the focus of the government's efforts. There we see today a great focus on subsidies and business support. It is often complex for politics to deal with this type of aid that is market-disrupting, and it is an area where it is often bad for politicians to try to anticipate winners and losers when it comes to new technologies. Madam President, I would like It is also this focus that is behind the Swedish Democrats rejecting national climate investments, which have been condemned by a wide range of expert bodies. These are projects which should have been carried out anyway, and the calculations made for the environmental benefit have also proved to be of very low credibility. However, what we need to invest in is the infrastructure. Here the state needs to take responsibility, especially in rural areas. We therefore invest resources in charging infrastructure. Madam President, I would like The government has two main strategies to reduce emissions from the automotive sector, and these are two very bad initiatives. First we have bonuses – the Malus system, which we reject and which we reduce in our investments in the environmental budget, although it actually has a net zero effect on the state budget. BONUS – the malus system has been evaluated by both the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development, which has identified a lot of things. The Economic Institute's conclusions are that the system is poor in cost-effectiveness, that it is associated with recoil effects that stimulate increased driving and that it slows the regeneration of the vehicle fleet, especially in the case of large emission-intensive cars. It is further noted that it is difficult to find well-founded motives for the existence of the system, that the analysis shows that bonuses – malus have little impact on emissions by 2030 and that the system should be phased out. The Bankruptcy Institute also expresses its views on the impact of distribution policies. It is found that the scheme is likely to benefit high-income people in cities who are willing to buy similar cars even without aid. We therefore have a system of subsidies and penalties for new cars that does not reduce emissions, entail socio-economic costs and benefit high income earners in large cities. How can this be reasonable policy? Madam President, I would like The second leg of government policy in this area is the duty of reduction. It is a reform that may not be so well known to the citizens but which briefly involves the blending of biofuels into the existing fuel that we are thinking of filling stations. Today, the reduction will be 21%, next year 26%, and by 2030 it will be 66% – a world-unique policy with unique consequences. For the citizens, this brings with it two things. On the one hand, biofuels are becoming more expensive – in other words, we now have another system that pushes prices upwards – and on the other hand changes the composition of fuel. According to the latest statistics available, 95% of the raw materials are imported into biodiesel or more specifically HVO, and then we are only at the beginning of the reduction level. No one can seriously believe that Swedish biofuel production will follow. And if it were to do so, then we have other reduction systems that are in place or about to be introduced around Europe, at a much more reasonable level to be said. It is not that Swedish biofuels will necessarily be consumed in Sweden, but trade takes place in a free, unregulated market. However, the most alarming is the environmental benefit of biofuels. According to the latest statistics, 44 percent of HVO consisted of palm oil-based products, which according to the research are significantly worse for the environment and climate than fossil diesel. How can this be a reasonable policy? Ruining the climate but tidying up the Swedish statistics is what the government and most parties in the Chamber do. Madam President, I would like Forests are, of course, an important part of this spending area and an important area for the Swedish Democrats. We are doing a lot of re-prioritising here. This is about cuts in funding, which in practice means an investment in Swedish forestry. We believe that Swedish forestry is a world leader. It has good profitability and is done responsibly, and our foresters are getting better and better at combining these things, as is evident from the fact that the Swedish Forest Board today predicts that we will have more older forests in the future. The problems in Swedish forestry policy could be briefly described as an unattainable goal of living forests and a problem with how we define protected forests here in Sweden. By using a Swedish definition that deviates from international standards, it is possible to construct that we would have problems with too little protected forest in Sweden. This is not the case if international definitions are taken into account. This is thus driving an unhealthy expansion of protected areas, which has had a wide range of negative consequences for both forestry and property rights. An investigation has been presented to address these problems for landowners. Unfortunately, the results of the investigation are sprawling and thus reflect the government and its fragmented view of the environment versus rural development. The forest investigation contains a number of positive proposals but also many negative ones. When it comes to the forest investigation, we want to realise a lot of things that strengthen the landowners' right to manage the forests that we all benefit from and that give rural areas, tourism and biodiversity a chance to flourish, but reject the proposals that are harmful to the rural population and to nutrition.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-694	Madam President, I would like Climate change and biodiversity are interrelated. A new knowledge compilation from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and SMHI provides a Swedish perspective on the strongly interlinked issues of limiting climate change and preserving biodiversity. Researchers from Lund University and SLU have developed a knowledge compilation based on the work of the climate panel, IPCC, and the intergovernmental platform for biodiversity, Ipbes. Global warming leads to the disappearance or shrinkage of habitats for several species, while other species may increase their range. This is the case in the world and in Sweden. There are good examples of measures that benefit both the climate and biodiversity, including the protection of forests and coastal beach protection. Climate action will not succeed unless biodiversity efforts are stepped up. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats a question. They have, of course, been very effective in the work here in the Riksdag over the last two years with them the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and sometimes also the Center Party and strongly and consistently voted against Sweden's work to protect biodiversity more effectively. Why?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-698	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to protect biodiversity as effectively as possible, so I do not agree at all with the description. For the world's climate, it would be good if more countries could follow Swedish forestry. We will be proud of our Swedish forestry and our Swedish forest owners who take responsibility and do an incredibly good job that hopefully can spread to the rest of the world.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-700	Madam President, I would like This morning, in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, we have received a report that the environmental objective of living forests is by no means achievable with today's situation and forestry. For us decision-makers, it is important to find synergies and prevent conflict goals. We must therefore understand that biodiversity is a prerequisite for coping with climate change, not something that we can ignore. In order to achieve a circular bioeconomy strategy, efforts are needed on biodiversity, carbon storage in the soil and more sustainable yield from agriculture and forestry. There's a need for housekeeping. Future international buyers of Swedish wood products will make demands on forests where the mountain forest has not been destroyed. What is the opinion of the Swedish Democrats?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-703	Madam President, I would like Biodiversity is important, but that does not mean that the objective of living forests is correctly formulated. As we see it, it is impossible to combine the objective of living forests and productive, viable forestry. It's nothing I'm alone in. We have heard it over the years in the forest debates in this House from a wide range of parties, including those on the left. For example, we have red-listed species that should be avoided at all costs. But we know historically that it varies. We will always have certain red-listed species. Species leave the red list and new species come in. It's a bit of a natural variation. We shall work towards biodiversity, but we must of course have reasonable goals that take account of reality. Rather, that is the problem. We have no problem with biodiversity.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-706	Madam President, I would like I have listened with great interest to Martin Kinnunen's speech and could not help but ask myself the question: where is hope and faith in the future? I believe that the climate issue, properly managed, can offer enormous opportunities for Sweden and all of us. I cannot help but ask myself which Sweden the Swedish Democrats want to pass on to our children. Sweden must change – it is urgent. The Swedish business community wants to change, as well as Swedish municipalities and regions. The transition presents major challenges but also enormous opportunities for jobs and development. Properly managed means the conversion means a lot of new jobs and fantastic export opportunities. To take the transition seriously is to protect Swedish jobs and Swedish growth. I therefore wonder: why do the Swedish Democrats not think that these are opportunities that Sweden deserves?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-709	Madam President, I would like I will tell you what we want for Sweden. We want a Sweden that maintains a fossil-free energy supply, which is threatened by government policy when one lets the Green Party decide. We want high economic growth in Sweden, but unfortunately growth has stagnated. Sweden has the lowest per capita growth rates in Europe. We want to reindustrialise Sweden. We do not want companies to flee with production to other countries; we want them to come back. For the more goods and services we can produce in Sweden, the more we contribute to a sustainable climate policy worldwide. The more goods are produced here, the better for the rest of the world. But it can be bad for the Swedish climate targets, because if we started to produce all the food here in Sweden next year, Swedish emissions would increase significantly. But the world's emissions would be reduced. It would therefore be better for the climate but worse for the Social Democrats' own statistics, which they have unfortunately made Swedish.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-711	Madam President, I would like I note with great interest, of course, what Martin Kinnunen says on behalf of the Swedish Democrats. Sweden will be industrialized. It is rarely agreed with the Swedish Democrats, but that we should reindustrialise and strengthen the Swedish industry we can agree on. On the other hand, we seem to disagree deeply on how this is to be done. I cannot understand how one can miss the opportunities that exist in Industrikliv and Klimatkliv and in all the work that is currently taking place in Swedish industry, where one actually asks for politics to point out the direction and help with the transition. I also wonder about the international aspect. I know that the Swedish Democrats think we should work on emissions elsewhere. How does this fit in with the desire to cut back on aid and hence also climate aid?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-714	Madam President, I would like It is of course gratifying that both we and the Social Democrats have the ambition to reindustrialise Sweden, which I would like to say it is about. But then it does not work that you have to wait years and years for permission, that decisions lie and collect dust at the Government Office and that we have not opened a Swedish mine for 20 years or maybe more. The important metals needed for the batteries cannot continue to be imported from other, dirty countries – we have them in this country. A more offensive policy is needed here if we are to make a difference. The Swedish Democrats are not very fond of this initiative as far as the industrial life is concerned. We don't think it's great that politicians should manage with business support in different ways. But we keep all existing bets. We can also note that not all the funds allocated by the government to the industrial life were used last.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-716	Madam President, I would like In the Left Party Budget Movement, The Way Out of the Crisis – a Plan for Equality and Green Conversion, we present comprehensive spending on welfare and a reformed tax system in order to increase equality through redistribution and create the conditions for success in the green transition. When everyone does things for themselves, regardless of the fact that our lives are bound together in a society, the rich draw away, the welfare collapses and the climate collapses. But when we do things together, it gets better for everyone. Then we can strengthen welfare, increase freedom for the vast majority, create justice and equality and succeed in the necessary transition. In the part of the budget that we are debating here today, there is a great deal of good from the government that the Left Party supports, such as investments in climate investment, the climate bonus and the Industrial Cluster. However, there are some things that we believe are missing, and we have therefore added an additional EUR 1.4 billion for the coming years in spending. This could have made it possible to carry out new initiatives. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants to see an initiative that takes us from words to action and that makes a workshop of the road maps developed within the framework of Fossil-free Sweden. The International Energy Council, the IEA, has recently stated that large-scale investments to promote the development, dissemination and integration of climate-friendly technologies should be a central part of governments' plans as this will both stimulate the economy and accelerate the transition to renewable energy sources. The Left Party shares that view. We believe that the industry itself should bear a substantial part of the conversion cost, but that, not least in the shadow of the Corona crisis, rapid state action is needed to help convert emissions and green jobs. Within the framework of Fossil-free Sweden, a number of industries have now developed their own roadmaps for how each industry will become fossil-free, with increased competitiveness as a result. The roadmaps contain concrete proposals for action for both stakeholders and policies. To date, 21 such road maps have been developed, for example for the construction sector, the shipping industry and the recycling industries. For this investment, the Left Party allocates SEK 1 billion for 2021 and a total of SEK 4 1⁄2 billion until 2023. In the budget, the Left Party is also investing in climate-friendly green cities. While the coronapander has hit us hard, it has also shown us that there are other ways to organize our lives and our time. We are more out in nature; we see air pollution falling in several cities and car traffic falling. Several cities have embraced this and promised their citizens to restart in a new way after the Corona – that there will not be a return to the traffic and air pollution that have been. In cities such as Milan, Rome and Barcelona, miles by car have been converted into pedestrian and bicycle routes. In Paris, 72 percent of the parking space has been removed, and London has introduced one of the world's largest car-free zones, to name but a few. The whole of Sweden will participate in the changeover, but in our cities we have the opportunity to make major changes quickly to, for example, drastically reduce car traffic. Then let's do it! Sweden's cities have great potential to follow the global trend and build transport efficient cities that reduce emissions and strengthen equality. Through consistent efforts that reduce the scope for motorism, we can create more equal access to public space and give everyone the right to access sustainable travel. This will benefit everyone, but especially those with low incomes. Through the Sustainable, Equal and Transport Efficient Cities initiative, we in the Left Party want to provide support to a number of areas, including car-free cities, smart urban freight transport solutions, the conversion of offices into housing and the conversion of parking spaces into parks, as well as a significantly expanded walking and cycling network. Emissions need to be reduced significantly faster than is currently happening in Sweden. Investment support needs to be increased in order to achieve the system shift required throughout the country in order to achieve the climate targets. In the case of new technologies, the market needs government intervention in the form of risk sharing and financing to invest in fossil-free solutions. Especially in the transport sector, there is a great need for investment in fossil-free solutions. The Left Party therefore proposes an increase in targeted support for climate investment compared to the government's proposed levels and beyond the current climate change environment to support co-financing with this focus. Through investment aid for the expansion of biogas and the production of other renewable fuels, we strengthen the potential of the soil and forest industries to contribute to both the conversion of their own energy use and the production of biofuels in Sweden, thereby achieving a higher degree of national self-sufficiency of fossil-free fuels. It is an initiative that also includes an increased allocation for the expansion of charging infrastructure and the expansion of hydrogen infrastructure. In addition to these new initiatives, the Left Party also proposes increased funding for both valuable nature measures and protection of a valuable nature. During the pandemic, the importance of both the right of public access and the availability of trails and nature reserves has become clear. Many have turned into nature, and it is perhaps no wonder that this year's Christmas gift became a storm kitchen. The cultural values of forests and social values must be protected according to our environmental quality objectives. The social values of forests arise, among other things, in people's improved health and housing environment, regional development and tourism. In order to strengthen public access to our nature reserves and national parks, but also to implement management measures to strengthen biodiversity, increased and long-term resources are needed. That is why the Left Party is raising the appropriation for actions of a valuable nature. In order to slow down biodiversity depletion, nature with high natural values needs to be protected at a faster pace. Sweden does not meet our national targets of 150 000 hectares of forest land with high natural values being formally protected. Nor does Sweden, with its current efforts, reach the target of at least 20 per cent of Sweden's land and freshwater areas being protected to achieve an ecologically representative and coherent network. The Left Party proposed in a motion that we submitted this autumn that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should be given the task of creating new national parks, and it is welcome that the Forest Investigations proposed just that. With the grant, we also want to increase the possibilities for landowners to receive compensation when creating, for example, a nature reserve. The level of appropriations as they are today is insufficient and landowners are in danger of remaining unremunerated.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-730	Madam President, I would like I thank Elin Segerlind for an interesting speech. Her speeches usually are, so it is by no means surprising. But there was one thing in particular that I found interesting to follow up in a line. It was about the social values of the forest. I think we are all in this House proud of the Swedish nature reserves. We are also proud that they have been associated for a long time with an ambition of making available. At the same time, one of the things that is really unique with Sweden is the right of public access to the entire Swedish forest. For most of the hours that we in the Swedish people spend out in nature – in Sweden it often means the forest – we are not in or adjacent to the nature reserve, but out in the alleman forest, in all the other forest land we have. It is also because we have a relatively well managed forest. What many think about when it comes to being out in the woods is actually a forest that is used in one way or another. I'd like to follow this up a little bit. I heard how Elin Segerlind described how her party wants to develop the nature reserve and have more. We can discuss that another time. But how does Elin Segerlind think that one should continue to strengthen the role of the individual forest owner and preserve the power and the ability of the individual forest owner to use his own forest in a way that delivers these particular values – a well-managed forest that people can also stay in? The risk if we undermine this is that we will have more forest areas that are closed or managed in a way that may be valuable to nature but that may not make them as easy to make available to the wider population.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-733	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek for the question. I hope that I will also include the question in my answer. A forest that is untouched, a natural forest, is not necessarily a forest full of sly. It can be a very beautiful forest that is pleasant to be in. I don't see that conflict line. We don't have to grow forests for people to be in the woods. Having said that, we do not mean in any way that all the forest should be uncultivated. We are in favour of active forestry. There's nothing weird about that. But of course we want to see a good balance in between.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-736	Madam President, I would like I understand that. I do not think anyone in this House dares to say that there are forests that are not pleasant to be in. It would almost be a crime against the Swedish people's soul. I think the honourable Member made the most important point in my question. What I was going after was precisely this – to hear that one wants to protect the ownership and use of the forest, which I believe contributes to these values. With this, I would like to thank Elin Segerlind for the answer to the question and for the speech.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-739	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Ek – it is always nice to hear that you answer within some sort of reasonable perimeter to what is asked. It is not always the case in this House. I might add that the level of compensation is an important element. If you are to make provisions and take care of your forest, you have to get sensible compensation for it, which I also mentioned in my main speech. I hope that in the future we will find a good balance between what was used to and what was preserved. I also hope that we may at some point be able to talk about the forest without making too much noise. Perhaps we succeeded in doing that now, one must say, which is nice.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-742	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' policy is based, among other things, on the principle of stewardship. Man has a responsibility to manage finite resources and natural values. We who live now will deliver an earth that the next generation can have as a home, an earth that hopefully is a little better than it was when we took over. The policy should therefore, based on the precautionary principle, be designed in such a way that public, our companies, civil society and individuals are given the opportunity to do the right thing, i.e. to steer towards good governance and sustainable development. In addition, we must balance so that the transition we are now in the middle of becomes a transition that is ecologically, economically and socially sustainable. We must show that it is both necessary and fun to change. It should be lustful and not weighty. Shame- and guilt-prone, rather than helping. Therefore, we should also be technology optimists and believe in both technology and the future. We cannot back down into the future and believe that we will then bring the rest of the world with us to change. We cannot say to the world's approximately 700 million people living below the extreme poverty line: you can stay there – we are changing. No, of course the world should develop in a more positive direction for all. Changing our lifestyle and reducing emissions can have a major impact on the everyday lives of individuals and families. In the environmental field, therefore, commitment is required of all of us. It is the task of politics to bring about solutions and a functioning infrastructure for this, but ultimately the success is determined by technical conditions and by the fact that changes are rooted in people's willingness to change and in their ability. That is why the decisions taken must be well-founded by research, lead to change and have a mandate for the people. Madam President, I would like Environmental policy is not just a national matter, as environmental problems do not stop at national borders. It is therefore a must that environmental issues are dealt with internationally. Many issues can be resolved at EU level, while global decisions are required for others. It is therefore gratifying that the EU has finally reached an agreement on a new 2030 target. We in Sweden have a higher target, but we are still heading in the right direction in the EU too. Then we must do what we can to stop some of the varieties coming from Brussels in this area. Some are perceived as mere placard politics, and some are not even, because it is not perceived as having contact with reality at all. This applies, for example, to taxonomics, which we have discussed earlier today or to the objective of strictly protected land. One should not be allowed to hunt and fish on the protected land but well have the opportunity to set up renewable energy facilities on the same land. Mr. Old President! Already in 2009, at the climate summit in Cancún, rich countries pledged to mobilise USD 100 billion annually to support the climate work of poor countries, a Marshall Climate Plan, the Green Climate Fund. The purpose of the fund was to raise funds to be used for climate adaptation in the countries most affected by climate change. The Green Climate Fund was launched to help developing countries develop in a sustainable way. The Christian Democrats propose that Sweden's contribution to the Green Climate Fund should be increased by half a billion annually in relation to the Government's proposal. Mr. Old President! The technology is moving forward, and one technology that we see is becoming increasingly in the cry now, as we have heard here before, CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage. In Sweden, what we now know is no rock formations or ocean depths suitable for carbon dioxide storage. In the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea, however, there are appropriate areas. In addition to individual project support, there are currently few incentives to invest in carbon capture in Sweden. Even if technology progresses, more research and development is needed. Today, Swedish bio power plants emit about 30 megatons of CO2 annually. This represents a great potential for extracting carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Growing trees and other crops bind carbon. When these are incinerated in bioelectric plants, CO 2 is released, which can then be captured and stored. The net effect is thus to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The fact that Sweden has such a large share of energy from biofuels suggests that Sweden should prioritise CO2 capture and storage technologies. This will enable us to benefit from this renewable fuel while helping to make a net take-up out of the atmosphere. By comparison, the Norwegian Government is investing just over SEK 16 billion in carbon capture. In the long run, there is an opportunity for integrated Nordic development that Sweden should support and promote with investments in, not least, network capacity. One example, Mr. Age President, is that Norway is investing just over 3 billion in Norcem's cement factory in Brevik. Norcem's plant is part of the same group as the cement factory in Slite on Gotland, which also makes the technology available there. This can be done on condition that the network capacity to Gotland is strengthened. This is something that we Christian Democrats call for Swedish power grids to do in the motion on Category 21. The potential that can be achieved there is enormous. So a favorite in replay, namely fast track for strategic climate projects. Today, important strategic investments in new climate-friendly production are delayed due to the long-term state-of-the-art processes. Among other things, this was highlighted on news pages when LKAB's initiatives were presented earlier this autumn. A permit case can go through the County Administrative Board, the Land and Environment Court, the Land and Environment Court and the Supreme Court. This can take several years, years that can be extremely valuable to an investor who wants to be at the global forefront in a quest for sustainable solutions to, for example, our energy and transport needs. Strategic environmental projects, as well as the entire innovation and development chain, in Swedish industries are unfortunately hampered today by our permit processes. As industries move from Sweden, emissions also increase globally. It is therefore of great importance that environmental and climate policy is not in contradiction with Swedish industrial production. Climate nationalism, where national emissions are considered worse than when they occur on a multiple scale in another country, must be countered. In addition, there is a need to carry out a major review of the review organisation and environmental legislation that stands in the way of reducing the scope of permit granting processes and thus shortening them. There is also reason to propose a fast track in the testing of strategic climate projects. This would enable us, as proposed by the Christian Democrats, to have a permit process lasting a maximum of 12 months. In order to ensure that the process can be carried out as we propose, in addition to the funds set up by the government to speed up environmental testing, a grant should also be introduced for the rapid testing of strategic climate projects. I note that my speaking time is drawing off, Mr President-in-Office. Finally, I'm going to talk about fossil-free flights. It'll be the last thing on the agenda. Air travel represents a small but growing part of the climate impact. In the past, it has proved difficult to find carbon neutral alternatives to current aviation fuel. On shorter distances, however, electric flights can be used, and together with the growing potential of hydrogen, the importance of electric aviation can grow. For longer distances, biofuels, so-called biojets, are also relevant. In order to quickly increase biojet production, we need more approved processes and more raw materials to make biojets. Increased local production of biojets is profitable for Swedish industry and important to strengthen our emergency preparedness, and it is extremely important for rural development and regional growth. In Sweden we can use local raw materials, such as residues from forestry. As we have proposed before, the Swedish Energy Agency's promotion mission towards sustainable biofuels for aviation is extended to include research and development of electric flights. That's where we spend more money than the government. Mr. Old President! I was going to finish with something that may be warmest in my heart, namely the forest. We've heard before about the forest advantage in the transition. My colleagues in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture have also heard me say this many times. I would like to refer to previous debates. I would like to wish the interim president, the President-in-Office of the Council, officials, MJU officials and my colleagues in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-768	Mr. Old President! It is quite common for Christian Democrats to start their speeches by talking about the principle of stewardship when they talk about environmental and climate issues. It always makes me think about what is part of the management principle. Over the past year, the Christian Democrats have worked quite effectively on issues that one might think are part of the principle of stewardship. This applies, for example, that we should not manage, account for and measure the carbon stocks that we have in forest areas in Sweden, The Christian Democrats have also worked to want to dismantle or lower the requirements of the environmental objective of Living Forests. The Christian Democrats have repeatedly pushed the issue not to take into account genetic diversity when it comes to the protection of species. The Christian Democrats even want to shoot all wolves in a territory without affecting the surrounding users. The Christian Democrats want to reduce the transparency of civil society in the environmental context, they do not want grazing animals in pastures that create biodiversity, and they want to increase the use of pesticides. Do the Christian Democrats mean that it is part of the principle of stewardship?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-775	Mr. Old President! It was a strange line from Maria Gardfjell where she puts opinions on us that I do not recognize at all. First of all, in her next line, Maria Gardfjell will be happy to tell you what she means by collages in the forest just so that I can get it straight. Actually, I don't understand that. Mr. Old President! The Green Party and the Christian Democrats have different views on some issues. It's perfectly clear. That's why we're different parties. One issue in which we have diametrically different views concerns the view of Swedish rural areas. For the Christian Democrats, we want the Swedish countryside to be alive. It should be possible to operate and live in the countryside. I want you to have your quality of life. It should be good to live in the countryside. Rather, with the policy of the Green Party and with the policy of the environmental movement, it seems that it would be best if no one lived in the countryside. It would have been easiest, because then everything could have become a big Skansen. We could have saved everything for posterity without using it. The problem is that much of what the Green Party here accuses the Christian Democrats of are things that put a brake on living, living and working in the countryside. There is absolutely no principle of trust in this at all if we are to force people to leave and if everyone is to be lumped together in cities. Then I have to ask Maria Gardfjell the question: who should manage all the green industries when the Green Party does what it can to chase people from the countryside instead? Who's going to run the woods? Who's going to run the fields? Who should ensure that we receive fossil-free materials for our cities, for example? There is absolutely no principle of stewardship in forcing people out of the countryside.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-782	Mr. Old President! Last week, on Thursday, we had a debate on regional development and on how to achieve a coherent rural policy. The Government has made great efforts to implement the Rural Committee's proposals, and two thirds of them have already been implemented. Here the Green Party is driving people to live and live in the countryside. My question, Mr. Age President, to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson was: What is actually part of the principle of stewardship when the Christian Democrats as a party consistently vote against the possibilities for Sweden to report carbon storage in forest land in accordance with LULUCF?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-785	Mr. Old President! It is quite simple: it is human rights. Human rights apply to all those living in rural areas as well as to those living in the city. No matter where you live, human rights are fundamental. Human rights include, among other things, property rights. I understand that these are the issues that Maria Gardfjell here is looking for. It also includes having a good life where you live, and many of the questions that Maria Gardfjell accuses us of here are quality of life issues. Maria Gardfjell is shaking her head. And of course – if you live in Uppsala, you have a vision, and if you live in the countryside, you may have a different view of different issues. This can certainly be the case, but I note that there is very little willingness to understand what it actually means to live and work in rural areas. It is sad when it comes from a party that sits in the Swedish government and unfortunately takes control of very many important issues for rural areas. That's why they're going the wrong way, Mr. Old President, and that scares me.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-789	Mr. Old President! Especially thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for highlighting Gotland, which is my home country! It always warms up a little bit. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and I have previously debated rural and climate issues, and I know that on an earlier occasion I was allowed by the honourable Member to call us both hillbillies. I thought I'd keep doing that because I know that concept is positive for both of us. What I especially think about when I hear this is what Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson lifts. Municipalities and regions should be involved in the transition, it should take place at all levels and it should be easy to do the right thing. To me it sounds absolutely fantastic and like something that I like to sign on. But for it to be easy to do right and for the transformation to take place throughout the country and at all levels, it requires instruments and efforts to get it moving. Earlier in this House, even today, we have debated climate change, which is an effort that the government is holding high and which we believe is the right step precisely to meet some of the smaller players and companies. It is about giving small municipalities and regions the opportunity to change so that there really is a transition that is taking place throughout Sweden. That is why I wonder, from one hillbilly to another: how will the conversion actually take place? How can it take place at all levels and permeate the entire community in Tanumshede, in Töcksfors and at home with me in Slite and Visby?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-794	Mr. Old President! Let me begin by underlining Hanna Westerén's words that the word hillbilly is very well charged, so that there is no doubt about it. As I said in my speech, it is extremely important when we say that we are making it economically, ecologically and socially sustainable. It's extremely important. It is important that the decisions we take here in this House are based on well-founded research and that they lead to change and have a mandate for the people. Then there are some large parts that we have to take as a basis, where electrification, for example, is one thing. We note that we are working hard to have a security of supply. If we're going to be able to adjust, the electrification is very important. One of our greatest competitive advantages, which would truly strengthen rural areas, is to use the forest. A managed forest provides the most climate benefit. That's why the forest should be managed – because it helps us in the transition. Like I said, we're tech optimists. We believe in technology. We believe in the future. As a result, what some former colleague was talking about is our Swedish companies: if they are to be viable, they must be at the forefront when it comes to conversion. Whether it's about buying new cars or whatever it is we're going to buy, our companies today have environmental thinking. This environmental thinking is what is with us and is taking us forward. We in Sweden want to be at the forefront. But as I said, we must do the right thing so that there is not a form of placard politics. There must be some things that are actually going to be right. That is why it must also be backed up by research. It must lead to change, and it must have a mandate from the people.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-800	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for your answer! I can't help but think it's not connected. As I see it, it has to be connected if the conversion is actually to work properly at all levels. Then we must have long-term, sustainable rules that are clear to everyone, to the small player but also to the big player. The small municipality far away from our big cities must know what applies and be able to invest in order to reset. These rules must be clear, and we must feel that there is a public force. That is why I think it is so important to take action like the Climate Centre. Maybe I should stay there because I really feel that this isn't connected. It will never work unless all levels are involved and there is clear governance and a clear governance year on the part of the state.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-803	Mr. Old President! I can only underscore what Hanna Westerén said about long-term rules of play. It is extremely important in this. It is important that we have a clear way forward in terms of where we are going and that everyone knows what is right for us to get there. We understand that this is about, for example, the Climate Klivet, which Hanna Westerén has now also mentioned in her reply and which we heard about here before. This is one thing that we have prioritised in our budget for several reasons, but not least because it has received such sharp criticism from both the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Swedish National Audit Office, among other things. We noted last year when we had our budget debate and it was up to us to say that it would now remove what was not positive and develop the Climate beyond. We also note that we still do not see anything clearly pointing out that way forward leading to the transition. That is why we are focusing instead on other types of measures that may be involved in ensuring that we not least reduce CO2 emissions. There, for example, electrification is a large part.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-808	Mr. Old President! No one can escape the situation of Sweden and the world. Early this spring, the whole world faced a pandemic. Covid-19 has forced us all to make great sacrifices. People's everyday lives have been put on hold. Many have lost loved ones. In parallel with the pandemic crisis, there are further threats to human health and welfare. The earth is getting hotter. Seas rise, and ice melts. Droughts, floods, fires and other consequences of a changed climate are already hitting people's chances of a good life. In parallel with the pandemic, climate change is a global threat to man, and the climate is the destiny of our time. We Social Democrats are ready and willing to take on the task of coping with the climate crisis. There is still time to reverse developments. By modernising Sweden and transforming it into a fossil-free Sweden, we can meet the climate challenge while securing new jobs and protecting our welfare. We have the technology, the know-how and the will. By gathering Sweden, we can become the first fossil-free welfare country. Mr. Old President! The Government's budget contains strong measures to reduce emissions and promote the transition to a fossil-free welfare society. The climate issue must permeate all relevant policy areas and take into account the different conditions that exist for Swedish citizens and entrepreneurs in different parts of the country. The Government therefore continues to develop and streamline climate investment programmes in the energy, transport and industrial sectors. All sectors of society at all levels need to contribute to sustainable and fossil-free development. The Climate College, which was established in June, is led by the Prime Minister and aims to work towards achieving the climate goals, driving the transition and implementing a green recovery. In the future, we will need more and new bio-based products to meet climate challenges and create more jobs. The green transformation of industry is crucial if we are to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. As one of the world's most innovative countries, Sweden has extremely good opportunities to take a leading role in the transition. Swedish environmental technology is an export product, and our competitiveness is very good. The awareness of sustainability challenges is high among the public, and Swedish companies are very motivated to drive development. We therefore propose industrial investments of SEK 950 million in the budget. We also invest in supporting industrial projects such as biofuel production, plastic recycling refineries, hydrogen production, recycling plants and battery production. The initiative ties in with the circular approach developed by the Social Democratic-led government. This is a necessity if Sweden is to reach the net zero emission target by 2045. As part of the industrial efforts, the investment programme Industriklivet supports the industry's transition to zero emissions through technological leaps. The Government broadens the industrial life by SEK 250 million in 2021. In order to further accelerate industrial change, the Government also proposes green government credit guarantees of SEK 50 billion to support sustainable industrial investments. Mr. Old President! The green recovery after the crisis gives us a unique opportunity to speed up the transition to a more circular and bio-based economy. It is necessary if Sweden is to achieve the global environmental and climate goals of Agenda 2030. But it is also important for Sweden to maintain its competitiveness and position globally. Swedish production and export of sustainable, climate-smart and circular innovations can contribute to more jobs and companies in Sweden as well as to sustainable development through reduced emissions. Innovation and entrepreneurship, based on circular material flows and business models, can promote the development of a resource-efficient, non-toxic, circular and bio-based economy. To increase the pace of the transition process, the Government has therefore decided on a national strategy for the circular economy that points to the direction and ambition of the transformation. Mr. Old President! I would also like to talk about transport. It is not only industry that has great opportunities for conversion. The transport sector, too, has, of course, major challenges ahead of it, but also great opportunities. Greenhouse gas emissions from transport and machinery today account for nearly 40% of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions. But they are also extremely well placed to reduce their emissions through electrification and by moving from fossil fuels to sustainable renewable fuels. Reduction obligation is one of our most important instruments for reducing emissions. Therefore, the Government proposes that the reduction levels be gradually increased to 2030. This is expected to provide long-term conditions for increased production of sustainable fuels in Sweden and will have a significant impact on reduced emissions and Sweden's ability to reach the 70 percent emission reduction target in the transport sector by 2030. In addition to instruments, the production of sustainable fuels needs to get off the ground. Biogas is a renewable energy source with very high environmental performance. Much of the material used to produce biogas comes from agriculture and the food chain, such as manure and residues from dairies, food processing and slaughterhouses. These industries have a central role in the transition to a circular and bio-based economy in Sweden. In the process of achieving this, Swedish rural areas will be absolutely crucial. Therefore, we have proposed SEK 200 million in support to extend the production of biogas during 2021. Mr. Old President! Sweden has a tradition of taking the lead shirt in international contexts. This also applies to climate issues. In addition to pushing for ambitious global implementation of the Paris Agreement in line with the 1.5°C target, we are also pushing for the revision of the European emissions trading system in the forthcoming review. By adjusting the ceiling for the number of allowances allocated each year, we can make it easier for European industry to switch. It is worrying to see some post-pandemic countries announce a decline in ambition on the climate issue. It should be exactly the opposite. This is why the Swedish Government is working towards an EU climate neutrality target by 2050. It should apply to the EU as a whole as well as to each individual Member State. We need to strengthen our global cooperation in order for our countries to recover from the pandemic and for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The Commission's green gift is central to this work as well as cooperation in the Nordic countries. The Government has therefore offered Sweden 2022 to host a high-level meeting 50 years after the UN's first environmental conference in Stockholm in 1972. The focus of the meeting is the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, but also provides good opportunities to review and support the work on green recovery and transition. The Government works through the regional cooperation in the Nordic region, the Arctic and Barents to implement the climate policy objectives. Mr. Old President! I would like to conclude my speech by specifically mentioning our efforts on biodiversity and ecosystem services that are crucial for the survival of humans, animals and plants. Biodiversity is declining globally. Ecosystem services are deteriorating and 1 million species are at risk of extinction from the face of the earth. In Sweden, the proportion of species at risk of extinction has increased by 11% over the last five years. Well-being and viable ecosystems are important for the human environment. Therefore, we propose a total of SEK 2.2 billion for Swedish nature. These include resources to protect our valuable nature through care, outdoor facilities, such as hiking trails, and the creation of more nature reserves. The government is making strong efforts to clean up contaminated areas around Sweden that threaten human health, biodiversity and the marine and aquatic environment. Climate change continues at a raging pace and risks people's well-being and health. In order to reach the climate targets and restart the Swedish economy, the government has presented a strong budget for green recovery. The resources we spend on re-setting the Swedish industry and transport sector will also create more jobs while achieving our global emissions reduction targets. As a social democrat, I believe in an active climate policy which is also a policy for the jobs and well-being of the future. Because Sweden takes precedence and invests in climate-friendly technology, our companies' competitiveness is strengthened. Swedish companies must be able to be ready to sell the innovations that the world is asking for. It creates jobs and export revenue. It also creates the tax revenues that we need to continue to build the world's first fossil-free welfare country. I would like to conclude by saying Merry Christmas to my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and to all the fantastic employees in the Swedish Parliament Administration. I hope you get great weekends and that 2021 will be far, far better than 2020. I would also like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-830	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for an interesting speech. We agree on many elements, as we noted earlier, and I share the commitment to these issues. That is precisely why I shall say that I am genuinely concerned about certain aspects of our success. The solution to the climate issue in many areas is spelled electrification. We are reached by data on rising electricity prices and electricity shortages in southern Sweden. We hear about municipalities that refuse companies to establish themselves in the area because electricity is not enough. We hear that municipalities feel that even the expansion of the charging infrastructure may be threatened because electricity is not enough. We hear about the major investments in northern Sweden that several of us celebrate time after time: steel without coal and most recently LKAB's fossil-free iron sponge. How will electricity be sufficient to electrify both transport and industry? We have heard Minister Ygeman stand in this speaker's chair and talk about that we have no power shortage in Sweden, which has upset quite a lot of people in southern Sweden. We see how fossil-free energy production is closing down, again in southern Sweden. I meet people who say: How can I buy an electric car when we don't even have enough electricity to do it today? I believe that all of this is threatening our transition, and therefore my genuine question to the government and to Hanna Westerén as representatives here today is: what is the government's plan for us to be able to get all the electricity we need? Experts say that up to 60 percent more electricity is needed by 2045. Where's that power coming from? What's the government plan? Does the honourable Member share Mr Ygeman's view that we do not have a shortage of electricity in Sweden today?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-835	Mr. Old President! I know that this issue has been involving the Moderates for a long time. Of course, it also involves representatives of the government and associated parliamentary parties. I believe that Sweden's potential in the area of renewable energy is large and untapped. I believe that we have solutions for the future, and I do not think that those solutions necessarily need to be spelled. I would also like to remind you that it would have been extremely beneficial for Sweden if we had had another commitment to energy issues, if we had had a consensus on what was once called the Energy Agreement and which the Moderates unfortunately left. I very much regret that. As far as Anders Ygeman's assessment is concerned, it would be very presumptuous of me to override his assessment of the asset. But I think that what I have presented in my speech earlier and which has also been presented by the government in different contexts regarding both the climate issue per se and the energy supply indicates that we have the situation under control, given that we allow these efforts to be linked together and hold on to issues of transmission capacity, impact and electrification.
i-DpmtYjzU2MzUHheZaDhfKq	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for your answer! I remain concerned, and I really lack a strategy from Sweden and ultimately from the government. I believe that we are facing a future when we will need to increase the use of electricity and thus electricity generation to a great deal more than today if we are to succeed. The truth is that on the car side we are talking about buying electric cars, and we know that for the industries the solution is spelled electrification. Regarding the major investments in northern Sweden, many warn that it will not be so popular to send more electricity down to southern Sweden when LKAB, SSAB and Northvolt need amazing amounts of electricity just to make their own fossil-free products and make their transition. So the question to the government remains: Where are we going to get the electricity? How are we going to change? Is it the hydropower you want to expand? Is everything going to come from solar energy? Why this lockdown when shutting down certain types of fossil-free energy production?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-842	Mr. Old President! I don't think I'm going to talk my time out, because I think there are fairly short, simple answers. Of course, Sweden will be electrified. There must be no doubt about that. Of course, Sweden will change, and of course the pace of climate change will increase even more. That is the very ambition of the budget that we are debating today. Finally, I would like to point out that the government is not shutting down anything. Rather, I think that nuclear power, as many of us who were born in the 1980s may be used to it, has played its part. The energy of the future is spelled much more sun, wind and water.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-845	Mr. Old President! Sometimes we'd sync our planned lines. Jessica Rosencrantz just asked the question I was going to ask: how are we going to meet the security of supply? Where do we get the regulatory power that we need to have with more sun, wind and water, which Hanna Westerén finished with? I shall ask another question about something that Hanna Westerén mentioned in her speech. That is something we support, namely the reduction obligation. That is great, because it is quite clear that we need to get more biofuels into our thoughts. The problem is that at the pace that the government is now aiming at, we see a number of rather influential people going out saying that it will not work. How are we gonna do this? Where's the biofuel coming from? If we are to go at the pace that the government is pointing out, which in itself is well-lawed, we will unfortunately have to fall back on palm oil again. I find it very difficult to believe that Hanna Westerén, the Social Democrats and the government in general want to do so. Then the question is: How can we take more out of the Swedish forest? The government is now very clear that we should protect more and use less. There is a different view of the used forest than many of us other parties have. Where should the biofuels be taken from if we are not going to use palm oil and if we are not going to use Swedish forests?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-850	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for refreshing questions! It's always exciting to try to predict what questions you're going to get, and I didn't actually see this one coming. As far as the reduction obligation is concerned, the short answer is that the government's assessment is that the rate is quite reasonable. If we had to lean on the palm oil, which Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentions, we might, for example, be able to examine a trail around certification of palm oil so that we know that it is acceptable. As far as the Swedish forest is concerned, I want to make it clear that the forest is a resource in the climate transition. Forests are a resource for biofuels. I would like to emphasise this if there were any doubt that I or my party would feel otherwise. Of course, the forest is an amazing resource in the transition. We have discussed many times in committee – in which we both have the privilege of being Members – that there are equal goals for forests. We may need to remind ourselves of them at times. Of course, we should protect what is protected should, and of course we should take advantage of the fantastic resources that the forest offers us in the transition and in terms of jobs and growth throughout the country.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-854	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that Hanna Westerén is clear about the fact that the forest is a resource. It's extremely important. Does this also mean that the Social Democrats and the government stand up for ownership and use rights? Hanna Westerén mentioned in her reply to my speech long rules of play, and if there is somewhere where you must have long rules of play, it is in forestry where there is very long circulation time. We note that ownership and use rights are being flinched. Ownership and use rights are clearly regulated in the Swedish Constitution, at EU and UN level – thus at three levels. Yet we note that the right time after time is nibbled at the edge here in Sweden. Will the Social Democrats and the Government stand up for the right of ownership and use? Will the government at all times replace those whose forest or other land the government authorities want to take?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-857	Mr. Old President! It will be difficult to answer the question in such a short time. The short answer is that of course the Social Democrats, the party I represent, and also the second party in the government, respect the Constitution. We must be clear about that. I'm well aware of both use and property rights. These rights are incredibly central in Swedish administration and are important parts of what many of us take for granted in forestry policy. But I would like to emphasise once again the equal objectives of the forest. It is important to remember them because they correlate with the commitments that Sweden has in the broader perspective. Of course we respect fundamental rights. I will not precede the outcome of the inquiry into the issue of compensation, but that is absolutely my hope.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-860	Mr. Old President! Hanna Westerén spoke a lot about the duty of reduction as an important part of government policy. I am grateful for that because that is what I was going to ask Hanna Westerén about. Swedish reduction obligation is as far as I have been able to determine unique in its kind. There are reductions of 20% today, and we are going up to 60%. What we can see is that politics could not be possible if it were not because we are destroying rainforests. We are totally dependent on palm oil-based raw materials. The latest available statistics show that over 40 percent of the biodiesel – HVO – consists of palm oil-based fuels, and we import over 90 percent. Scientists agree that palm oil fuels are worse in terms of emissions and environmental benefits than fossil diesel. It would therefore be better to put Lundin Energy oil – one of the more climate-friendly oil companies, if one can talk about it – in the fuel instead of palm oil. The problem for the rest of the world is that it looks nicer in the statistics when the government decides on the reduction obligation. Despite the fact that emissions occur in the world, emissions from combustion occur in Sweden. These emissions are, of course, lower. Is it a good environmental policy to import fulbiofuels to enable the transport sector to achieve its objectives?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-864	Mr. Old President! The short answer is that conversion is ongoing. It is consistent work towards our goals. As far as the parts of the reduction obligation are concerned, we are not in any way finished, but we are working steadily towards high targets. I hope that the reduction obligation will be an important element of Swedish environmental policy for a long time to come precisely because it is effective in reducing emissions in the transport sector. In the case of palm oil, or other fuels to be included, we must screw the system so that it becomes another system of things with other compounds so that they become more and more sustainable. But the reduction obligation itself is an important tool to protect.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-866	Mr. Old President! Work's in progress! But every year we import fuel that is up to three times worse than fossil fuel. We put it in people's thoughts in the belief that it will be better for the climate. But we know it's not. The fuel's getting worse. Wouldn't it be better to set a more reasonable level of reduction? The Swedish democrats think that the principle of reduction is good, but the level must be reasonable. There are no researchers or experts who believe that it is possible to reduce by 60 percent in a sustainable way in the future. It would be reasonable to move to a more sustainable level. Although we can double Swedish biofuel production, triple or quadruple, it is unlikely that it will still be enough because there are more countries that use these fuels. It's a free market.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-869	Mr. Old President! I'm of the opinion that the stick wins. I believe that the path we have taken is the only sustainable one. I also believe that we must remember what the objective is, namely to reduce emissions at global level. Of course, we are going to reduce emissions here at home, but we are also going to help bring them down at global level. At home, of course, we can invest in more biofuels, as is the case in the current budget. In fact, one of what Martin Kinnunen is asking for is already in the budget. It seems that the honourable Member has listened attentively to the speech in general, so I hope that he took particular note of the funds allocated to stimulate access to biofuels.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-872	Mr. Old President! For me, this is one of the most interesting debates of the parliamentary year. Maybe it's also one of the heaviest. What we are debating today is, among other things, environmental policy in the next year's state budget, an area in which I am pleased that the Center Party is involved, and I am pleased to be here to tell you how the Center Party has affected. What we also do is to receive an account of the Swedish environmental objectives system. We broaden and review Swedish environmental policy. This year, like all other years, we regret to note that we are currently failing to achieve the Swedish environmental objectives. At the moment, we are not even about to achieve a majority of the Swedish environmental objectives. Although we can discuss the formulation of the objectives and how the reporting is done in committee, the fact remains that if we are to manage to hand over a society and an environment to future generations who are feeling better than the environment and nature that we have from previous generations, we have a great deal to do. We all know that the climate is the destiny of our time. We know that this is a global challenge, where Sweden must take an active role in meeting the climate threat through efforts both at home and internationally. We know that all the other environmental objectives, except perhaps a few, depend on us being able to solve the climate challenge. And we know that although Sweden is in many ways an example in climate and sustainability, we still need to strengthen our climate policy if we are to meet the jointly agreed climate goals. I will not be able to explain everything that would have to be done in the field of climate, energy and transport, but let me dwell on certain reforms in this state budget that I am proud that the Center Party has received in order to sharpen, sharpen and develop Swedish climate policy. This is, for example, about the green cut, which could simplify the way in which more people could make climate-smart investments. When Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson puts solar cells on the roof at home in Värmland, he should not have to wonder when he gets the money, but he should know exactly what cost it will entail for him. That kind of security needs more people to be able to feel in order to dare do their part in solving the climate challenge. Let me mention the big effort on bio-CCS to store carbon dioxide. CCS has been mentioned earlier here in the speaker's chair, but then often in terms of us catching and storing in Norway or in other ways. It is a very important part if we are to be able to meet the climate targets for net zero emissions in the long term in 2045. But bio-CCS is something we could start with right now. We need more solutions in order for more actors, such as those in green industries, to be able to contribute to the storage of carbon dioxide. We will spend 200 million on this in the coming years. I think it is extremely important to get technological development going. I would also like to mention the commitment to EU cooperation on innovative solutions in industry as well as the research effort on how Swedish forestry can contribute even more to reducing emissions that will be done as a result of this state budget. I will come back to forestry, as many of my colleagues have done here today. But it is not only about how we currently produce renewable raw materials and renewable energy, but also about how to use forests in a more sustainable way. There, this research effort and its successors will be an important tool for those who want to contribute even more in forestry to save the climate. I will not be able to dwell more on the climate because we have 15 other environmental objectives, and I would like to touch on at least some of them. I would like to go on to mention the circular economy strategy that has now finally come into place in Sweden as a direct result of the January agreement and the agreements the Center Party has made together with the government and the Liberals. If we are to be able to achieve our climate goals but also to use the earth's resources better in Swedish society, then we need to move as quickly as possible to a more circular economy. It's an economy where we don't have straight resource production – that is, we take a product, it usually and then it's finished – but where products and goods spin in the economy and where more actors can make money by circulating and making Swedish society more sustainable. At the moment, the first action plan is being negotiated on the basis of the Swedish circular economy strategy. Unfortunately, I cannot present the results in this House today. Then I have at least a couple of colleagues who would be somewhat pissed off – excuse me, Mr. Old President! But I can mention what has been important entrances for the Center Party. It is to ensure that we take advantage of the Swedish opportunity to build a bio-based circular economy and do not continue to build on fossil fuels. It is to make it easier for entrepreneurs, innovators and companies to come in and be the ones who actually put a spin on the Swedish economy. And that's making it easier for us as individuals and consumers to make sustainable choices and know what climate impact the goods, products and services we buy have had before they come to us. I would also like to mention briefly the increased efforts on wetlands and on cleaning up contaminated areas and cleaning up old environmental sins that are added to the state budget. These are important elements in meeting the environmental objectives related to Sweden's marine environment, coast and watercourses. Mr. Old President! My last few minutes I would like to dwell on the issue of biodiversity. It is quite rightly a dear topic of conversation in Swedish environmental policy. We know that we have major challenges both globally and at home in Sweden if we are to manage to protect biodiversity. All too often this boils down to a discussion about the Swedish forest and how we use it, as has been said very wisely about here in the pulpit, or at worst to such a simple discussion as the one about the wolf hunt. What we in Swedish politics need to be better at is to realise that the majority of the species on the Red List are in or in connection with the Swedish agricultural landscape. It is not necessarily wrong that the majority of the red-listed species are here. It is not an ill will that has led us to do so. But we have had a change in land use in Sweden over the past 60-70 years. My grandfather's father devoted his entire life as a farmer to farming the land with the help of scythe and horse. Now that I'm taking over agriculture at home, it doesn't really look like that. This also has an impact on the Swedish landscape and the habitats of species in that landscape. The major issue of biodiversity is how we ensure that those who protect these shrinking, disappearing habitats actually benefit from it. It is the only way to reverse that trend. And let me say that although I believe that the Center Party has many answers to this, many answers to how we benefit those who actually use the land and preserve habitats, we should be honest that no political party has been able to present today a credible roadmap for how we ensure that we meet the goals of a living agricultural landscape in all these parts. This is a real fate challenge for us. Finally, I would like to say that when we talk about protection and preservation, we have another problem, which we address through the January agreement and which we are still negotiating. It is a question of reporting protected land. I just want to say one thing there, Mr. Old President. It is that I find it bizarre that we have people who take a great deal of ownership but that we do not report it in the same way as our neighbours and friends in Europe do. It looks like agriculture and forestry in Sweden are worse than in neighbouring countries that take less responsibility. We just can't have that. Mr. Old President! The time is too short to be able to address everything, but I hope I have had time to raise some of the things that the Center Party wants to do to tighten up Swedish environmental and climate policy. It's going to be necessary. Last but not least: G od Christmas! Gud bless you all!
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-893	Madam President, I would like I was very pleased that Magnus Ek began his speech by saying that we need to invest more in achieving the national environmental quality objectives. We really need to strengthen environmental policy and invest in achieving environmental objectives. Sweden has systematically developed environmental work. For the past six years, with the Green Party in the government, the pace has increased dramatically. The clearest examples are that the climate policy framework has been decided, that a multi-annual environmental budget has been adopted and that strategic cooperation with industry to create roadmaps for climate change has been formulated. Sweden has strengthened its role in international environmental policy. This is work that produces long-term results. Evaluations show that several of the environmental objectives are difficult to achieve, but also that the fact that we have environmental objectives is a reason why we are at the forefront of the work on Agenda 2030. Magnus Ek mentioned in his speech that other environmental objectives are affected by our meeting the climate target. But it is also the case that biodiversity targets are a prerequisite for achieving other targets, including the Agenda 2030 objectives on social and economic justice. Madam President, I would like After all, our two parties are working together on the budget and January agreements. I wonder whether the Center Party could in future consider prioritising work on national environmental objectives, including biodiversity.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-897	Madam President, I would like If you wait for something good, you don't wait too long. It was perhaps worth waiting two hours to have this line shift about a sharper and more effective Swedish environmental work. I would not say that only in the future can we be willing to give priority to the achievement of environmental objectives. I'd say there's something we're doing. I would say that that is why, in the budget we have jointly negotiated, we are not only developing the environmental budget in terms of scope, but actually also tightening it up and making it more efficient. I may be a party to the case, but I would argue that it is not least thanks to the Center Party that we, for example, develop the link with business and entrepreneurship throughout Sweden. There is a reason why I devoted most of my speech to talking not only about environmental objectives in general but specifically about biodiversity. I think there is a job we need to develop there. That work, I want to repeat, is not least about thinking about how those who use the land, those who care for the landscape in this country, can benefit from working with biodiversity. I think we're missing something there today. We all too often think that things should be protected or excluded from use. To some extent, it is easy to lay a dead hand when doing so. These are things that we in the Center Party are trying to balance with each other. With regard to biodiversity in particular, not least in relation to what is linked to the living agricultural landscape, with pastures and other landscape measures, it is equally important to encourage and promote farming that rewards biodiversity. Last but not least, I'll thank Maria Gardfjell for giving me the opportunity to score another point. We want the Center Party to review the entire Swedish environmental policy system, so that it better connects to Agenda 2030. Out in the country we notice that not least many of our municipal representatives find it a shortcoming that Agenda 2030 and the environmental objectives system link too badly to each other.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-902	Madam President, I would like In the work on Agenda 2030, we have commented that the environmental objectives system, public health targets and other national target systems that we have decided on here in Parliament are very closely linked to Agenda 2030. There is a great potential for improved and coherent governance towards environmental objectives, for example through the extension of intermediate targets. We now also have the continued work of the Environmental Objectives Committee ahead of us. The question of agriculture and environmental objectives is particularly important. It is gratifying that Magnus Ek highlights that particular connection. How does the Center Party feel about giving real priority to environmental objectives within the framework of the food strategy?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-904	Madam President, I would like I think that is something that we are really prioritising. But you should be very clear here, because it may be that Maria Gardfjell and I mean different things when we say that this should be a priority. Does it mean that biodiversity should be given priority over the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture? Then we are going against the food strategy. What I am talking about here is that there are synergies. We could do something that is extremely important for biodiversity in Sweden and that actually also benefits Swedish agriculture. But we have not quite managed to get there from politics. We have had too much of the preservation glasses on us in the sense that we want to exclude environments from use. Unfortunately, what we all too often see around the country is that what the state has said should be protected are things that are then unable to protect and assert. That is precisely why we are actually losing environmental values and biodiversity. That's absolutely not supposed to happen.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-906	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 20 General Protection of the Environment and Nature. It is part of the state's activities that have long been dear to us liberals. In 1904, the Parliament approved the Liberal Member Karl Starbäck's motion to set up national parks, and Sweden set up nine national parks as a second country in the world in 1909. Liberal politicians have always had a strong commitment to the Nature Conservation Association. Karl Starbäck was also included there when the association was formed in 1909. Hugo Osvald worked hard during his time in the first chamber in the 1950s and 1960s to draw attention to the risks of the unclean discharges into air and water that were then the practice. Our party program from 1962 was the first from a Swedish party with its own section on environmental issues. In the same year, we began to demand general emission limit values for the country's industries, which met with strong resistance. When Ola Ullsten, Kerstin Ekman and Bengt Westerberg fought to save the last rivers from expanding out, the attitude of the then People's Party was seen as extreme. At the same time, fossil fuels caused serious acidification problems. Nuclear power solved both of these issues in one stroke. The expansion of nuclear power remains one of the most important climate actions decided by this Assembly. In 1989 we aroused our first party movement with a comprehensive environmental policy. At the end of the 1980s, we also suggested that the polluter should pay for it. It was certainly not obvious at the time, as it is thankfully today. But it is a principle that we are still holding high and which has proved to be important for effective environmental and climate action. Our environmental policy has not always been loved. Over the years, industry, trade unions and a number of interest groups and parties have been rather critical of our proposals. Over time, however, most people have realised that environmental policy is important and that what we have achieved is not so bad. Madam President, I would like Today it is climate that is our most important environmental issue. Climate change is fundamentally affecting ecosystems and is rapidly changing the conditions for life on earth. Overcoming climate change is essential to halt the terrible development we see for biodiversity and to stop the acidification of the seas. In line with our proud tradition, we liberals take the climate issue seriously. It is not a question of reducing greenhouse emissions; they should be eliminated. That is why we would have liked to see the EU's 2030 climate target tightened up further, not only to at least 55%, as we have now agreed. It is, however, to be welcomed that the objectives are being tightened up, and we will take the floor at least. The EU has an important role in being the forerunner of other parts of the world and should take the lead in developing climate-neutral solutions. At the same time, we liberals see that the only way to do this is through entrepreneurship, free trade, effective solutions and hard work. In short, there is a need for strong economic development. Poor people have the right to be better off, and we who are well off have the right to dreams and to freedom to make them a reality. Madam President, I would like Liberals have made a difference in this year's budget for expenditure. What I want to highlight in particular is that we will now take concrete – and adequately funded – steps towards getting large-scale bio-CCS, C argon C apture and S torage, at our district heating plants and our paper mills. The growing forest collects carbon dioxide, and if we make sure to take care of it instead of letting it back into the atmosphere, we create negative emissions. The potential is great – at the largest plants we can collect carbon dioxide equivalent to up to half of our emissions. A cheap and important climate measure, although it has a little less potential than bio-CCS, is to recreate previously drained wetlands. When marshes and marshes were drained to create arable land, the peat came to light and began to decompose. Lands still leak large amounts of carbon dioxide. There has long been money in the state budget to restore wetlands, but the climate has not been the driving force. Liberals have now made sure that there is more money and that the climate effect can be the argument for actually restoring our wetlands. As you all know, the Liberals are the driving force in speeding up the electrification of the transport and industrial sectors. In this area too, this is a budget in the right direction. The long-term work of liberals for our seas continues. Eutrophication and the sound management of fish stocks are the major issues. However, we are also pleased with other issues raised in the budget – the negotiations with the government, for example, led to the strengthening of the funds to tackle the littering of the seas that we received in last year's budget. Madam President, I would like Liberal environmental and climate policy is based on the idea of stewardship. We shall use the resources of nature responsibly, but we have no moral right to hand over a world to our children who are poorer than the one we received from our parents. Ecosystems must be viable, not only for the sake of flora and fauna, but also because we humans and our economy are completely dependent on them. Our liberal approach and policy have been clearly reflected in this year's budget for Category 20, and we are pleased about that. Once again, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-920	Madam President, I would like There is a particular politician whom I would like to thank and send my Christmas greeting to today: Sweden's Minister for the Environment. Isabella Lövin has led the work at the Ministry of the Environment to produce this draft budget, which is very well written. It is also the case that MJU has supported the proposal, and I therefore support the proposal for a decision. Isabella Lövin has taken leadership in Sweden as well as internationally and placed Sweden and the whole of Europe on a new course in the conversion work. Isabella Lövin's persistent work has not only led to crucial climate and environmental reforms but has also built a completely new system within which the transition to a sustainable society continues. Isabella has introduced order and order into climate policy. When she ends up speaking in just over a month's time, she leaves with the knowledge that conversion is taking place at an ever-increasing rate. Her impressions in Swedish and international politics will continue for a long time to come; we have only seen the beginning of the results that her progress will have on our society. Isabella Lövin may not be like most others. She has kept pushing matters forward step by step rather than engaging in populism. It was most noticeable when she sat in the European Parliament and changed the whole fisheries policy. With an approach similar to the journalistic work, she investigated how politicians from different camps could support that direction. When the work was at hand, she added to her political opponents as much as they praised her. Isabella Lövin's delivery is that of a visionary realist. She has shown to everyone that the Green Party's vision is actually realistic. She has shown that the Green Party has an industrial policy that many other parties now want to adopt – not least the Moderates have talked about it this evening. Isabella Lövin has pushed through changes that will consist of knowledge, commitment and cooperation. The green ideology drives us green politicians, and the green ideology has gone from opinion to implementation with Isabella Lövin at the forefront. In concrete terms, Isabella Lövin has pushed through the reform of EU fisheries policy and clearer rules for sustainable fishing, against the dumping of fish and much more. Many fish stocks are already feeling better. She has put a clearer focus on maritime policy and ensured that maritime issues are given priority at the UN and that there are regular maritime conferences to save the seas. She has pushed through the Swedish Proposal. She managed to bring the whole of the EU along Sweden's line to make it more expensive to emit carbon dioxide, and now carbon power is reducing rapidly in Europe. She has made the Hybrit initiative possible by pushing through support for Swedish industry, which has led Sweden to be the first in the world to produce steel without coal. This is a revolution that in itself can reduce Sweden's emissions by 10 percent. She has pushed through the climate law and the climate roadmap, which forces all future governments, regardless of colour, to prioritise the climate. She's stopped Preem's expansion. We know that the expansion would have increased Sweden's emissions by 1 million tonnes and made Preem Sweden's largest emitter. She's introduced the B rind change. The Green Party has pushed through that most of all fuel that is refuelled at Swedish gas stations in 2030 will be renewable, even for it as petrol and diesel tanks. She's been protecting the climate. The entire Swedish aid budget will continue to be an example in the development work, and it will have a major impact on the world's most vulnerable people that climate work is incorporated into the aid. She has broadened the responsibility for climate issues through the Climate College and initiated the climate justice investigation, which will create further order in climate policy and accelerate the transition. She has taken decisive steps to push through the circular economy strategy. For four years Sweden has been ranked best in the world. I would say that with Isabella Lövin we have a world-class environmental minister. Madam President, I would like The year 2020 will go down in history as the year when a pandemic hit Sweden. People have been affected by illness, and those who work in health care have had an extremely important and exhausting job. But I think that in the future, when they think back to 2020, many people will think about how many forest walks they took this year. The security has been greater in the forest, and the spread of infection is less outdoors. One way to measure our outdoor stay is that the sale of barbecue sausages has broken record and that the storm kitchen is this year's Christmas present. My New Year's resolution for next year is to be out much more in nature. With this budget, we make it possible for many more Swedes to find their gems or their favourite forest and experience fine nature. It is not in all countries that citizens have been able to go into the forest and land. The reason we've been able to do that is because we have the right of public access. It is a right that the year 2020 has become the salvation of many from becoming total prisoners. Madam President, I would like Access to protected nature within one kilometre of the dwelling has increased, from 23 per cent in 2013 to 29 per cent in 2018, mainly due to the consistent policy pursued by the Green Party on protection of a valuable nature. In the 2021 budget, we further increase efforts on nature protection and management of valuable nature. Some other major investments in the climate and environment budget area are climate change, climate investments, the climate bonus and the industrial environment. There are investments in climate adaptation by reducing the risk of race and scrambling at Göta River, increasing the clean-up of contaminated areas and environmental research, to name but a few important things. Madam President, I would like A green recovery is needed after the pandemic. Sweden will become a fossil-free welfare nation. We're going to have a fair climate transition. It is extremely important that we give strong priority to this work in the Swedish Parliament during 2021. We will be able to do so with the amazingly strong environmental budget that we will have. Merry Christmas!
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-945	I would like to remind you that it is not a depreciation but a budget debate on Category 20 that we have right now.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-946	Madam President, I would like I don't want to dwell on the pick-up bit. Nevertheless, I believe that there are certain things in the list that we are several parties that are proud to have been involved in contributing to here in Parliament, in the European Parliament and not least in Sweden's offensive role in international climate negotiations. Perhaps the undersigned can also be considered to have contributed something to the strategy and the forthcoming circular economy action plans under way. Enough about that. Maria Gardfjell took a previous line on how we take advantage of biodiversity in the January agreement and the work on implementing Swedish rural strategy. I would like to take this opportunity to put a similar question to Maria Gardfjell. One of the things that we have seen and which is often mentioned as a threat to the green transition, not least from the business community, is the long-term prerequisites for getting involved in the green transition. You want to know that there are long-term conditions, you want to know what role the state intends to take and you want to know that the basic conditions exist. This applies not least to forestry and those companies that want to use the resources in Swedish forestry to help transform Swedish society by producing more biofuels, sustainable textiles and chemicals and not least building materials. In the light of this, my question to Maria Gardfjell is how the Green Party, in addition to the points contained in the January agreement and on which we have jointly agreed, for example, to protect and strengthen property rights, looks at the long-term nature and conditions of forestry, for example. How can they know that we will be able to use the forest raw material in Sweden to change Swedish society?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-950	Madam President, I would like That's an interesting question. I received exactly the same question in the debate on Thursday when we discussed Category 23. It is, of course, the Green Party's main branch to be the party that puts both climate change and biodiversity at the top. It is precisely by combining this work that we get the long-term vision that Magnus Ek demands. We now see that the industry itself is beginning to give much higher priority to biodiversity in its own work. The international buyers of the forest raw materials we produce in Sweden – this is an important export effort for Sweden – will also make demands, not only on climate-smart production but also that it is smart from a biodiversity perspective. Then we must have a forestry policy that is really based on two legs, which prioritises both the environment and production. When I was interviewed last week in Land Agriculture, speaking of the Swedish Forest Investigation, which is the investigation that Magnus Eks and my party have ordered together, I said that I think we really need a forestry policy that is based on three legs: on the environment, on production and on the small forest owner, the small forest farmer who is the one who is going to do the job. We need to be better at prioritising that the public's environmental efforts should also pay off for the individual forest owner.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-954	Madam President, I would like I can inform the honourable Member that she has one of the small-scale forest owners right in front of her in the Chamber. Me and my nearly 100 hectares, which in itself is large for a forest owner in southern Sweden, where I and my forest company are included, is also part of the production. When you talk about the threat to production, it is also about our ability to run our companies, in order to keep them, pay the bank loans and one day hopefully hand over to future generations. This is not a contradiction. That's what worries me a little. I am often pleased when we debate the issues in this House and in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. We have a fundamental agreement that the forest raw material should be used to change society and that the forest industry is important for Sweden, for our production, for job creation and for us to build growth and confidence in the future throughout the country. But now, in my opinion, Maria Gardfjell is taking this back to other things. My question was precisely how Maria Gardfjell and the Green Party intend to protect the conditions for forest owners like me.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-958	Madam President, I would like I must say to Magnus Ek : Here you have a forest owner. I'm a forest owner, too. I own 200 hectares of forest land in northern Västerbotten. 25% of it has been set aside as a voluntary provision. I understand very well the challenges facing small farmers. You often sit in the hands of the big forest companies. They are now pushing strongly for climate change in the forest to be only about one thing: substitution, replacing plastic, petrol and diesel with forest products. But it's not just about that. It is also about carbon storage and biodiversity.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-961	Madam President, I would like I note quite often in the general debate that representatives of the Green Party are talking about a transition that is disconnected from growth. In view of the tribute speech that Maria Gardfjell gave instead of a budget speech, now that the Green Party is about to change its mouthpieces, I have noted that even spokesperson candidates stress that we must have a transition that is completely decoupled from growth. Then I must ask the representative of the Green Party if the Green Party is behind it. Where will the money for the conversion come from? Or does the Green Party possibly mean that we should back into the future?
i-DycpkLikrEPj4mxtxP76Sa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! I think that is something that many people are interested in. How are we going to meet the future and the economic challenges of the future? It is absolutely no coincidence that the Green Party is sitting in a government that is working for us to have a fossil-free welfare country. It is absolutely no coincidence that the Green Party is working to achieve a fair climate change. It is no coincidence that the Green Party is working to ensure that the business community is involved in the development of climate and environmental work. And it is no coincidence that the Green Party is working for a strong economic development throughout Sweden.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-965	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, we note quite often that the representatives of the Green Party are talking about having a transition that is disconnected from growth. However, if we are to set an example for the outside world and bring the outside world into the transition, we must show that it is possible to combine the transition with growth. Unfortunately, many of the countries we want with us have far too fresh in mind what poverty and hunger mean. Growth is also needed in order for our industries and others to be motivated to stay in Sweden. Otherwise, there'll be a CO2 leak. Maria Gardfjell pays full tribute to the environmental policy of the Green Party. Yet the party has representatives who clearly point out that we must stop growth, otherwise we will not be able to make the transition. I ask the question one more time because I did not get an answer: where will the money come from?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-970	Madam President, I would like There are many who have criticized that I have hailed Isabella Lövin. But the fact is that every point I raised about her work is about the budget that we are working on today. Some things are linked to European policy which also governs our environmental policy. As an environmental party, I have no problem talking about growth. I want more environmental cars and bicycles, and I want a thriving food industry and more organic farming. I want growth in a variety of areas. But as an environmental party, I also know that there is a problem with the concept of growth itself, and that is that it is so closely linked to the oil economy. It is this part of the growth that we in the Swedish Parliament must now wind up together to cope with the climate.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-973	Madam President, I would like It took the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government eight months into the Corona crisis to come up with a proposal to help people with individual businesses. Eight months. We are talking about hairdressers, craftsmen, musicians and others who have had to wait unreasonably long because the government and support parties C and L have handled corporate subsidies unmanageably. For months, companies in the form of partnerships have asked the government without getting an answer: Will we get help or not? Companies that have been hit hard by the crisis in late summer will have to wait six months and a long time until 2021 before they can get help because the government and support parties C and L have handled business support unskillably. It's like the Prime Minister usually doesn't say okay. I choose to start this debate with the crisis that faces so many businesses and entrepreneurs. Some have done well, such as parts of industry and grocery stores. A lot of others, rarely buying, transport, culture, sports and not least the tourism industry, continue to be under pressure. A lot of companies have lost some of their turnover in a short time. Tourists have missed, there are fewer guests in hotels and restaurants and there are sparse visitors to the country's shops. Madam President, I would like Overall, there is great respect among Swedish entrepreneurs for the fact that restrictive measures must be taken with the infection that exists in our society. At the same time, there is probably a will, a desire and almost a requirement that if you as an entrepreneur do this, you should receive compensation for being restricted and given a form of ban on business. However, this has not always been the case. Several of the aid, such as tax deferral and lay-off aid, have worked well for many. For others, there are long processing times and a great deal of uncertainty. The government therefore waited eight months for the crisis before coming to Parliament with a concrete proposal that could help people who run an individual firm, even though it has been clear to everyone that it has been problematic for hairdressers and other entrepreneurs for a long time and that the parliament had made a decision to demand this very thing from the government. I think it has been handled unskillably by the government and the support parties C and L. In addition, the trading companies ended up side by side because it wasn't handled. It was also unmanageable. Entrepreneurs who lose a lot of their turnover have been able to receive conversion or turnover aid during the year. It was basically a wise measure. But in practice it has been poorly handled. First, it took the government and support parties a long time to agree at all whether to help entrepreneurs who have been affected by the crisis. Since then, it has normally been months before concrete legislative proposals have been submitted to Parliament. After the Riksdag has made a decision, the authorities must adapt their computer systems, and finally an entrepreneur can apply and receive money. Let us take a concrete example. What happens to an entrepreneur in the tourism industry who has had a tough summer and applies for, for example, August or September? The January parties promised that support would expire, and some have probably believed that the money would soon be in the account. But in practice, not even a bill has come to Parliament to help these entrepreneurs. It won't be until January next year. At best, entrepreneurs can have the money in their account in March or April. At the same time, the crisis is rolling on, and the risk is that companies will end up waiting for the aid. It is a bad thing that the government and the support parties do not handle this better, and in the meantime, entrepreneurs and people are affected throughout the country. Madam President, I would like We also need to look beyond the acute crisis and see what measures we need to take in the long term that affect business conditions in Sweden. There are a number of issues that remain beyond the crisis. Sweden has no long-term migration policy, and we must continue to do more in terms of talent attraction. We continue to see problems with shootings and other crime affecting the country's attractiveness, and even before the crisis Sweden had problems and challenges with tax levels, tax problems, the inflexible labour market and a housing market that does not allow you to move to a job or an education. So it was before the corona, and so it is now. We must take this forward in order to strengthen the Swedish business community. Electricity has long been a competitive advantage for Sweden, but this is challenged when we see that Sweden is no longer the country in Europe with the lowest total costs for the electricity system. We have had three electricity crises in the space of less than a year, and an increasing number of companies are expressing medial and other concerns about both capacity problems and large price fluctuations. There must be a change in the interests of business and green change. Madam President, I would like 5G is another area. In the past, Sweden pioneered in areas such as NMT and GSM, but now we are seriously behind other countries. At the same time, we know that the need for 5G in society and business is huge. Connected vehicles, sustainability in agriculture and forestry, a developed food sector and developing health care or education, yes, there are great needs. Of course we should take into account the safety of this, but we also need to gas on so that Sweden and Swedish entrepreneurship do not lose out here. Another area, Madam President, is the state of the environment, which we must do something about. It does not really matter whether we are talking about a municipal waste water treatment plant, a power line, a multi-residential building or the establishment of a mine or an industry. The common denominator is that it takes far too long to obtain an environmental permit and that it costs far too much money. In addition, such a situation is common to many entrepreneurs – that you do not know exactly what to do to meet the requirements and get a necessary permit. For example, it takes about ten years to get a new electricity line in place. For the famous Hybrid project, a delayed electricity line can affect and delay the project and thus jeopardise Sweden's ability to reach the climate targets. The other week LKAB presented a huge investment in Norrbotten: SEK 20 billion per year for 20 years. This is welcome to them and welcome to Sweden, but it could quickly be noted that our permit processes are one of the things that can threaten, endanger or advance in time such an important project. I regret that the government has not consistently addressed this issue. It threatens entrepreneurship and economics, and it also threatens the green transition for Sweden. My goal is that we can combine strong economic growth with a green transition, but then we need to change the state of affairs processes. Finally, the most important thing now seems to me to be to resolve all the mistakes made by the Minister for Enterprise, the Government and the support parties in terms of crisis aid for businesses. Otherwise, the risk of Sweden losing a huge number of companies and jobs is completely unnecessary.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-992	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for a good speech! It fits in with this time that doesn't look like anyone else. You brought up a few things that I was going to mention, so it was very good. It became a curtain for industry when the former Moderate Prime Minister told everyone in Davos that the industry in Sweden was fundamentally loose. The same moderate-led government barely had time to take office in 2006 before it removed the Norrbotnia railway from the infrastructure plan, which is now being built after the turn of the government and which is important in order to transport in a climate-smart way the raw materials and goods that ensure that Sweden's exports are strong. There was also a need for a new government to ensure that educational places are increased throughout Sweden, which sees that the collaboration between the highest political leadership, research and industry is important if we are to jointly meet society's challenges and who dare to take new initiatives such as test beds, climate and industry. What we are now seeing in northern Sweden, just as the honourable Member mentioned, is something absolutely fantastic: a climate-smart industry that delivers a wealth of jobs that create confidence in the future and, not least, bnp for this whole country. I think there is a need for a strong political will to ensure that infrastructure is built throughout Sweden and that there are training places and that it is invested in research, innovation and collaboration. My question to the honourable Member is therefore: does he share that analysis? Does the honourable Member see that the industry is not gone at all, but that it is constantly making itself sustainable, that large infrastructure investments such as the Norrbotnia Line are creating growth and that the government's investment in test beds, climate and industrial life bear fruit?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-997	Madam President, I would like I myself have a longer background in the industry and worked with aircraft engines and rockets before entering politics, so I think I know better than many in this House that industry is important to Sweden. There we still see what potential really exists. Not least as a West Swedish, I can see this, given the amazing vehicle cluster that we have there. Looking at the crisis that we are in right now, the industry overall has managed quite decently. You should know that. Aid for lay-off has been strong and well-functioning measures for industry. I would say that the problems we have seen with the government's mismanagement and inability to deal with crisis aid have rather affected important areas such as tourism, trade, culture, sport and the like. What affects the industry now, I would say, is an ongoing restructuring. If we look at a company like Volvo Cars, we don't really see the effects of the coronapandemin in the first place, but the shift from fossil combustion engines to electrification and a major change that has to happen. What we need to do as a country is to decide on important structural reforms. As I said before, it is clear from before that Sweden has both advantages and disadvantages. We know that we are often a well-functioning country with a fairly widespread trust between people, and we usually have a high rating in terms of innovation. We also know that the housing market is failing and that we have an inflexible labour market. Tax levels and tax burdens are further areas highlighted by criticism from the World Economic Forum, OECD, the European Commission and others when Sweden is compared with other countries. We are an open economy – it's known since before – and may actually have a tougher competitive situation since we don't have our own internal and large market. That is why I believe that there are several other areas that we now need to address, such as permits for things to be put in place more quickly. We have to go ahead with 5G and make other reforms, because otherwise we are sold in terms of competitiveness.
i-GwAoWs3agLzknusraxvd44	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Lars Helmered! Although I did not really get an answer, I suppose what the honourable Member said was that he shares my analysis that it is necessary to invest in large infrastructure investments and expand a knowledge boost throughout Sweden. Perhaps we had seen a completely different development in northern Sweden if the Norrbotnia Line had already been built. Now we see that things happen in Skellefteå, Kiruna, Gällivare and Luleå. We see amazing things happening, and there is a belief in the future. Policy can decide that it should run companies ahead of it or that it should work together. I did not really hear anything but that the honourable Member does not think that the former Moderate Prime Minister, that the industry is basically go, but that investment and skills are important in conjunction with the industry if you want to get investment.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1005	Madam President, I would like I know better than many others that industry is extremely important. What you do in Trollhättan with aircraft engines and space rockets is one of the most advanced things you can do. The pharmaceutical research that takes place in Mölndal, for example, is crucial for curing and mitigating diseases and is important for export revenues and everything else. If we are going to take this on board, we are going to see the joys that exist and the real benefits, but I also think that we should talk clearly about some of the problems. The electricity situation is one of those. We can listen to what the chemistry cluster in Stenungsund or, for example, the chemical company Kemira in Helsingborg has said. They warn that the government does not take seriously the price fluctuations that strike industry hard, and there is concern that capacity is not enough. Or one can look at such a thing as permit issues in the mining area or other areas, where it is said that the government must act. And then there's no bill from the Minister for Economic Affairs. There must be penance and repentance.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1007	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation on the state budget under Category 24. Unannounced and completely unannounced, the Chinese virus turned the daily life of Swedish traders upside down at the beginning of the year. Some have done relatively well while others have had to take down the sign or just managed to keep their heads above water, so far. Unfortunately, it is not over yet, neither the pandemic nor the economic crisis that has followed in its wake, despite all the measures taken to either limit the spread of infection or the economic consequences. The crisis we are in is not like a classic financial crisis. No particular market can be identified or held responsible for the situation we have ended up in, as in the 2008 financial crisis and the overvalued and over-borrowed housing market. Instead, we see that the economic crisis is caused by the measures taken to limit the spread of infection and by the general changes in movement patterns and behaviour followed by it. Against this background, some sectors have been hit harder than others. Initially, we saw how large Swedish industrial companies, depending on the global value chains that they themselves form the top of, saw a shortage of inputs and therefore stood still. Tens of thousands of Swedes were in danger of being given notice and becoming unemployed. Fortunately, we politicians acted quickly, at least to be politicians. We secured extensive lay-off aid, which allowed industry, in particular, to overwinter during the early pandemic crisis. As a bergborger and Skövdebo, I know very well how important the lay-off support has been. I have family, friends and acquaintances who have been laid off from the Volvo factories at home. Although they found it understimulated to be unable to work at the same rate as before, they were happy that they still had a job. Madam President, I would like Not everyone's had a good time. The industry did relatively well, partly thanks to the policy support measures put in place and partly as a consequence of the relatively rapid re-availability of inputs. Global and international trade recovered. Worse has it been for those industries whose consumers failed as a result of the above-mentioned contamination measures and behavioural changes. This applies, in particular, to the tourism industry and trade. Skara Sommarland, the big amusement park at home in Skaraborg that I myself spent time on as a child, could not open at all during the season. Other tourist attractions as well as hotels, restaurants, passenger transport, bars, cafes and so on have had a nightmare year without end. For a politician and economist with confidence in the market's own ability and a fundamentally sceptical attitude towards political and public involvement in the market and subsidies it has been a different year to say the least. The extraordinary situation we continue to find ourselves in has, in fact, called for unprecedented incentives to business. I am pleased but not satisfied that we managed to get on-the-spot support for short-term work, conversion aid, rental aid, temporary reduction of social security contributions, support for individual traders, etc. This has happened despite the fact that the recurrent demand has been made for the opposition to press the government ahead of it. Madam President, I would like I even dare to say that most of the support measures would never have been put in place or extended if it were not because a more or less concerted opposition was pushing for the same thing. Unfortunately, the government has been both slow and stingy in terms of the more generous support measures that came into place in our neighbouring countries and in other comparable states. Having said that, however, the pandemic has brought political parties closer together. I believe that on the whole we have acted relatively constructively and unitedly to try to take the necessary support measures to save the Swedish business community. However, no one should believe that I and the Swedish Democrats are satisfied. On the contrary, we are still in the process of extending and simplifying existing aid. The operators affected by any new vectoring measures taken shall be reasonably compensated. And we must ensure that the conditions are in place for a quick restart as soon as possible. In addition, we must also work urgently to ensure that aid actually reaches traders. I am reached by far too many traders whose fate is determined by whether or not the Swedish Agency for Growth succeeds in paying out support. This is where the government must act. Madam President, I would like Some of these much-needed industrial policy measures are contained in this report, not least in our reservation. Our targeted initiatives mean that we have higher funding than the government for tourism promotion measures, the Swedish Agency for Growth, business development and more. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is probably the wet dream of many politicians that the committee in which they sit is given significant money in the budget bill. However, I can only say that I look forward to the day when industry is no longer in need of the support measures which are now temporarily blowing up our spending area.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1023	Madam President, I would like I share the view of some of what Tobias Andersson said in his speech, including what was about short-term lay-offs. There was no such thing at all during the financial crisis, even though other states already did. Moreover, the legislative proposal began to be prepared long before the pandemic came. It was a measure that this government really wanted to do. In fact, we have a Prime Minister who has previously stood on the other side and demanded from the previous Government that it introduce this. But this is not what I was going to talk about in my line. Industry by industry in our country submits road maps to Fossil-free Sweden, which is a national initiative that will make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It's about 22 of them now. They show that they can increase their competitiveness by becoming fossil-free or climate-neutral in 2045. These are industries such as concrete, construction and construction, grocery stores, forests, ski facilities, aviation, haulage, to name a few. The roadmaps currently cover more than 70 per cent of Sweden's emissions. And it is Sweden's industries that tell us what measures they are prepared to take, but they also talk about what politics should contribute. When I read the Swedish Democrats' budget motion at the same time as I read what Swedish industries want to do to change and become more competitive, I do not see that they go hand in hand. I would therefore like to ask Tobias Andersson how the Swedish Democrats view the national initiative Fossil-free Sweden. What – if anything – do the Swedish Democrats want to do to make the industry's roadmaps a reality?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1027	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. It is appreciated to hear a social democrat who realises that business can take precedence over politics and that it does not always have to be the other way around so that politics should put the framework and push others ahead of it. As we have seen in Sweden for a long time, Swedish industry has not rarely had a higher level of ambition in this area than Swedish politicians have. Neither I nor the Swedish Democrats intend in no way to limit their conditions or ambitions in this area. What is very worrying, however, if Sweden is to reduce its emissions is undeniably the fact that we repeatedly need to import electricity into Sweden. It is often electricity produced under unethical forms with a high fossil footprint. Instead, we could have created conditions in Sweden for domestic production of non-fossil electricity. It is an opportunity that the Social Democrats have actively contributed to limiting. This is not least a consequence of the closure of one and soon two reactors for nuclear power that in no way affect the fossil footprint that Sweden does. Instead, it has chosen to celebrate renewable energy production, despite the fact that it is not at all enough to produce enough to cover demand in Sweden. As a result, we have ended up in a situation where we need to import fossil-produced electricity closely. It worries me very much. I believe that this is a considerably greater problem for Sweden, for the Swedish business community and its transformation and for our emissions than is stated in our exercise in this area.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1030	Madam President, I would like As a social democrat, of course, I believe in the collaboration between research and industry and the Innovation Council under the Prime Minister, where one is seen to develop the main features, where the climate threat is actually one of the biggest challenges. What I heard the honourable Member say is that if nuclear power is built, we have solved the 22 road maps. That is all I heard the honourable Member say about how the Swedish Democrats want to contribute in 22 road maps which, I can speak of, are not about nuclear power. The only answer I received from the honourable Member was to build nuclear power is to solve these 22 road maps for a more competitive industry in Sweden. I have to say, I find it hard to believe.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1033	Madam President, I would like AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg seems to have a selective hearing. I began my reply by stating that the Swedish Democrats in no way intend to stand in the way of achieving and enabling these road maps. On the contrary, I think it is wise that the policy can take a step backwards and let the business community work to achieve its full potential without any detailed regulation or intervention of various excise duties that limit our ability to adjust or achieve the desired result. At the same time, the fact that we have a situation in Sweden today where power stops are becoming a common word in the industries where we cannot produce as usual as a consequence of the energy policy of the current government. It's troubling. The fact that industries of various kinds need to invest abroad instead of in Sweden is a problem. That is what I would like to focus on in this change of line.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1036	Madam President, I would like The Coronandem has really challenged and continues to challenge us as a society. The consequences are seen. Swedish small businesses are hit hard in most areas. The hospitality industry, local commerce and small-scale production have had to pay an extra large price. We are reminded of how vulnerable we are in the global world, where much of our raw materials and products are imported from other continents. Perhaps we need to rethink the question of how companies should be run, what production should look like and how we should really support our small businesses. The Left Party has a budget that is committed to reducing the huge gaps that exist in Sweden today. Our budget is also aimed at strengthening welfare and transforming society into a greener society. We do this by reforming the tax system in order to allocate resources where they are most needed. If it is something that this pandemic has shown, it is that we all benefit from having a strong, common society. It also shows that crises hit those already affected by economic and social inequalities hardest. Inequality creates worse conditions for companies. Housing shortages, poor maintenance and electricity grids that do not cover needs, lack of extended rail traffic, lack of access to public transport, impoverishment of rural and suburban areas and a segregated school system do not provide a good basis for developing innovative, sustainable businesses. Our policy provides a solution to this. In our budget, we spend about 70 billion more than the government. It is money spent on reforms that could start work on building a stronger, fairer and greener society for all. We are in a pandemic that has generated an economic crisis. Unemployment is particularly worrying. To counteract this, we need to take a major interest, strengthen society and prepare to create new opportunities for jobs and the future. We believe that this is the time to invest in the common, to change, to renovate and to drive development forward. Therefore, we present an investment plan for the future. It is large public investment that stimulates the economy and creates jobs. Through these investments, we also ensure that we meet the great societal needs that have long characterized large parts of the common. The investment plan includes major investments in green conversion, housing construction, infrastructure, energy efficiency and new technologies to change the economy in a more climate-friendly direction. We therefore want Sweden to make massive investments in the coming years. Over time, we are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars that need to be invested at government level. Our proposal includes a total investment of approximately SEK 30 billion in the investment plan as early as 2021. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a gender-disaggregated labour market. Entrepreneurship is no exception. The main responsibility must lie with the companies themselves, but there are ways of moving things in the right direction. We believe that support for women's innovation is a neglected area. Many of the state aid available for innovation and experimental studies show a certain imbalance, and many of the women concerned are experiencing difficulties. That is why we want to see an active, equal innovation policy that allows women to innovate. The state's support for innovation must take into account women's innovation. We also propose targeting support for women's entrepreneurship by supporting female professional networks. Creating such forms of cooperation has proved to be an important tool to compensate for gender injustices in entrepreneurship. It is also important that equal entrepreneurship becomes a priority objective also in the business promotion work carried out at different levels. We believe that sustainable, democratic companies are the companies of the future. It has also been shown that these companies have been best able to cope with the crisis. We want to see a greater diversity of operating and ownership forms in entrepreneurship, where, for example, cooperatives and employee-owned companies form an important part. A cooperative is a form of cooperation where the members both own and carry out an economic activity that they need and benefit from. Members are in many cases involved in the activities, thus gaining influence and increased responsibility. Cooperative and worker-owned companies have proven to be long-term and sustainable. It is an important way forward from the crisis, and we must support that. One way is to save companies that are threatened with closure, even though they have a relevant production, is to transform them into workers-owned companies. Today, however, it is not an easy task for staff groups to take over a company and save their jobs, for example in the event of a generation shift or when other companies want to buy up and close down in order to reduce competition. There is no direct support for, for example, resolving the debts that the company may have incurred, while at the same time having initial capital to start the job itself. This is a particularly pressing problem in the wake of the Corona crisis, where many companies are threatened with closure. New initiatives are needed to increase the possibility of co-operation in Sweden. Therefore, we propose that the government company Almi should receive a supplement to issue loans in order to enable employees to take over otherwise closed-down companies. After reviewing the business plan for the cooperative, Almi could contribute to more employees themselves being able to save their jobs. The Left Party proposes an increase of SEK 100 million compared to the Government in 2021. We also believe that it is necessary to look at ways of facilitating the creation of cooperative enterprises and the taking-over of enterprises in order to strengthen and expand cooperative enterprises. Climate change requires a major shift in the business community. In some respects we are well on our way, but in other respects we need a push forward. That push goes through our proposed investment plan. The Investment Plan includes a wide range of proposals. One of them is the conversion of the paper industry. The Swedish paper industry has great opportunities to contribute to further production of renewable energy. Therefore, we propose a two-year programme for green conversion of the paper industry of a total of SEK 600 million. This will go to investments for energy efficiency and increased production of renewable fuels. Other proposals covered by the Investment Plan, but relating to other areas of expenditure, are a new national climate support aimed at the industries with state aid for investments and development and research for a fossil-free Sweden, such as electrification of roads and making recycled materials more competitive. In total, climate aid amounts to 1 billion. Madam President, I would like I advocate a fair trade policy that puts people, social justice, animals, climate and the environment first. It should be a trade policy that focuses on social benefits for all and not just on profits for large companies. Trade with the outside world is crucial for Sweden's prosperity and development, but I want a fair trade policy that does not mean any deterioration for the citizens of the countries involved in trade. The present world order is not fair. Resources and power are deeply unequally distributed throughout the world. The opportunities for participation in international exchanges and trade are therefore different. With the coronap pandemic, the economy of many countries has been severely tested, and trade has fallen both within and between countries. The fact that the pandemic can trigger a huge economic crisis is almost natural in this case, and many countries and companies are cautious about the investments they make. In order to recover economically, countries with a lot of money need to give more and countries with less opportunities. Furthermore, if the recovery is carried out through climate-smart investments, the potential for achieving climate goals will increase. There is a misconception in trade policy, namely that one does not see the whole. It is about the consequences of the proposals and not using the tools of trade policy to promote democracy, human rights and climate. Trade agreements are being drawn up to increase the volume of meat imports into Europe, but it is known that meat imports will have consequences for human rights and the environment. Another example is the voluntary partnership with Honduras, which is now being discussed in the EU Board. Forest felling there today is a major problem in terms of both human rights and the environment. At the same time, there is a major democracy deficit in Honduras, and there are many human rights problems there. You threaten and kill social leaders. Although the agreement in this case gives a stamp that timber is produced and harvested legally, it is unlikely to produce the expected results. That is why we first need to strengthen democracy and create agreements that have binding cross-functional requirements for it to work. Here, Sweden needs to make a position that favours human rights and climate change by imposing legal requirements on companies and their chains as well as through trade agreements. I refer to our specific opinion and do not take part in the decision in favour of our own budget.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1063	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats want to create the conditions for a society of good economic growth and a strong business environment in global competition. There is a need for well-thought-out labour market reforms. In fiscal policy, people's conditions for leaving unemployment and exclusion need to be improved. To do this requires leadership and the ability to prioritise. Sweden's best must come before the respective January party's favorite reforms, where no one is currently taking responsibility for the whole. The measures that governments around the world have had to take to stop the spread of infection have resulted in Sweden and the outside world having been in a particularly deep recession. In Sweden, there is a risk that unemployment will remain at high levels for a long time to come, which would have negative health effects and cause social problems and undermine public finances and hence the long-term financing of welfare. The job reforms that we are proposing are aimed at employers wanting to hire people who are currently unemployed rather than, as government reforms, providing support for jobs that already exist. During the past year, various business support has come into place, but it has taken too many times unnecessarily long time and not infrequently these decisions have been made through the Riksdag. Once the government has communicated restrictions or various support, the issues have only become more numerous. Many companies are still waiting today for answers on short-term aid. The processing times are far too long, as the Swedish Agency for Growth is well aware. Regulatory frameworks and application paths are often perceived as a jungle. Support for individual traders was decided by the Riksdag in June this year. Now a proposal has been presented, and hopefully they will be able to benefit from support sometime in the next year. We know that four out of five jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why it is incredibly important to support those companies, which are often small businesses, which, due to the pandemic, have lost revenue. This, in turn, has been due to restrictions to prevent an increase in the spread of infection. Madam President, I would like The situation of Swedish business has changed dramatically over the past year. I would like to stress the importance of structurally correct reforms being launched now in the run-up to 2021. Only then can they bring Sweden out of the crisis. There is a need for broad, rapid, accurate and powerful job reforms that break mass unemployment. A key factor in the recovery is a good business environment where investment is stimulated and where it is easy and profitable to employ. New jobs are not created by politicians either here in Parliament or in the government. They are created primarily by people who find it worthwhile to start and develop businesses, realize an idea or risk their savings. It is therefore extremely important that laws, rules and taxes are designed in a way that makes it easier for people to start and run businesses. Madam President, I would like Some elements that we Christian Democrats believe are necessary for Sweden's business environment are regulatory simplifications in line with digitalisation. I believe that all parties have promised that once they are in a government, they will work on regulatory simplifications. But then we need to move from words to actions in the right way. One example that we have included in our budget, and to which I would have preferred the Parliament to have decided to allocate funds, is a grant for setting up a central regulatory platform. Here we have set aside SEK 3 million for this purpose. Today, regulation is being carried out by a number of public actors, and companies find it difficult to get an overview of ongoing and planned actions. Through a central platform, I mean that it could have been more transparent for companies when different regulatory work starts and ends and how companies should proceed to submit comments. This would strengthen the corporate perspective of regulation. We also believe that it is necessary to have an infrastructure that suits our geographically elongated country. This applies, in particular, to domestic flights. Here we must ensure that the policy does not go any further and stifle Sweden's competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of Europe and the world. Flying is an important part of Swedish business. Sweden's electricity supply is another part, which currently divides Sweden. Over the past year, there have been huge differences between the different price areas. Companies should be able to trust that the electricity is there when it is needed. Stability and security of supply are extremely important for Sweden's entrepreneurs. Finally, government service and commitment. This may be crucial to the development of a company. We Christian Democrats want to introduce service guarantees for companies in order to contribute to faster, more qualitative and more predictable government services. There is a lot on the wish list, and in the coronap pandemic in which we are now in the middle of it, strong action needs to be taken.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1078	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for an exciting speech. I agree with a lot of that. I just need to ask if I heard right. After all, we have spent hundreds of billions on resources to cope with companies, workers and the care under the coronapndemin. I hope the honourable Member did not say that she thinks that the government should decide for itself, but that we take those decisions in the Swedish Parliament. The honourable Member will have to make that clear to me. I heard something there. What I was going to ask the honourable Member is the tourism industry, which exists and is important throughout Sweden. Last term of office, when I was on the Industry Committee, I worked closely with the Christian Democratic Member. We both burned for the hospitality business. For example, we started Parliament's first network together with Visita. Right now, none of us have any idea how travel or the tourism industry will rise when the pandemic is over. There has been a study sometimes other UK that shows that young men in big cities are the first to leave right away while everyone else will be a little more hesitant. This summer, we started to do hemestra, which meant that the cities in Sweden could somehow maintain the infrastructure even if they did not have as many guests as before the pandemic. The government is now investing in Visit Sweden being given another assignment, that is to sell Sweden not only to foreign guests but also to domestic guests. We are also investing in a restart of the tourism industry with an announced strategy. This particular initiative rejects the Christian Democrats, so my question is how the Christian Democrats want to promote the tourism industry.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1086	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the questions. There were a lot of them, but I'll try to get in them. The tourism industry in Sweden is an incredibly important industry, and we see that it is particularly vulnerable right now. You wait for the support, you wait in vain and you get the answer The processing times are far too long, and you don't know how to get through the next day. That's the short perspective. In the longer term, we see that the tourism industry needs help and support, absolutely. But we also see that what companies in Sweden generally need is good access to health care and a security system that can be trusted, and at the moment this is missing. For our entire tourism industry or whatever industry it may be, we have added funds to be able to meet the basic needs of all Swedish entrepreneurs. Here we see different parts that we have pressed on, not least in the area of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights with regard to the threats that exist to different sectors. Then we must also take responsibility for ensuring that the basics work first and help and support those companies that actually need the help. It is short-term, and here we think it has taken far too long for the government to get the subsidies in place.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1091	Madam President, I would like I thought the honourable Member said that there was good access to care. Then I was happy, because of course we should have good access to health care. We will have that all over Sweden. It should also be as needed and not after wallet, so it gets even better. The honourable Member did not really answer my question. In the short perspective, she replied, but she did not answer how she wants to see the restart. This is, of course, a strategy that has been developed together with the industry that will now be put as a restart for the tourism industry that they so badly need when the pandemic is over. The Christian Democrats do not want to spend their money on that very thing. I therefore wonder how we want to promote the re-launch of the tourism industry.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1094	Madam President, I would like We see that the tourism industry is an important part. We also see what the basic needs are and what we invest in in our budget. The tourism industry also needs to take on its responsibilities, but it is no secret that one can streamline through digitalisation and so on. We need to ensure that we have good efficiency in all the different authorities, but also in organisations that carry out these activities. Here I know that an enormous amount of work is being done by, for example, Visita, which I hope the government will listen to when it comes to restarting. This applies to all of Sweden's different parts and industries, but the tourism industry is a particularly vulnerable sector at present.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1096	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member mentioned that the companies are the ones who create the jobs. But new jobs are also created through the public and by creating the conditions for companies and their workers to be able to work. I have looked at your budget a little, in which, despite the pandemic and unemployment, and although you are keen to protect companies in order for them to stay afloat, you choose, for example, to lower the unemployment fund by stopping the extension of the compensation levels. You also want to save money by removing the part-time rule. I agree that companies should be saved, but why do you not want to save the workers' economy during this crisis?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1099	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We Christian Democrats believe that all jobs are important and that it is better to be in work than to be unemployed. Here we need to find and pursue a responsible policy, because we know that four out of five jobs are being created in private business. Four out of five jobs are created by SMEs. If we could make it easier for all companies to hire another person, then we would not have any unemployment left. Here it is therefore incredibly important to see what gives the most bang for the money. We believe that we are pursuing a responsible policy on this.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1103	Madam President, I would like We are also happy to look at what is around the companies. Workers should be able to maintain their economy during this crisis and still contribute to society without being locked up in any effect. We also believe in investing to create jobs. There'll be a time after the crisis. But you have cut back on, for example, building subsidies, which would make it easier for workers to get housing and be close to businesses. What future do you want after the crisis for entrepreneurs?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1106	Madam President, I would like It is great that the honourable Member talks about the construction subsidies. The construction industry has been fairly subsidised for a long time. We need to find a good conversational climate, so that the money goes to the right places. We must invest in our future if companies are to get out on the good side after the crisis. I think everyone in here agrees with that. But then we need to give the right support to the right companies and industries in order for this to provide an opportunity. One should not oversubsidise certain parts or oversubsidise the public. Municipalities and regions have been given huge tax bags during this crisis, and there are a great many municipalities that currently do not really know where to spend their money.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1107	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, which deals with one of the important elements of the creation of a stronger society, namely the policy on nutrition. The goal of enterprise policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations. Madam President, I would like In Sweden and around the world, the spread of infection is again increasing. We need to do everything we can to stem that trend. Covid-19 has been and is a serious threat to people's lives and health but has also had consequences for companies and employees. The tourism industry is an example of an industry that is having a difficult time, especially in the big cities, when foreign guests stay at home. The food industry has gone well, but not the border trade. So there are regional differences even during the pandemic. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had the situation that through the management of Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson we had saved in the barns, and we had the lowest public debt since 1977. This is a conscious economic policy that has enabled the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, in 2020 to put forward proposals for support measures of over 200 billion. In addition, there have been guarantees and liquidity enhancements of hundreds of billions more. Never has Sweden so quickly invested so much resources, and it has made a difference. Only through short-term lay-offs have hundreds of thousands of Swedish employees escaped the risk of becoming unemployed. The companies have thus been able to afford to retain the skills of their staff. There has been a great deal of unity among the parties. That is why we in the Swedish Parliament have also been able to decide quickly on twelve additional budgets. Madam President, I would like At this time of major societal challenges and an increasing need for a fair transition to a sustainable and inclusive welfare society, we need to act wisely, jointly and quickly. It is therefore important that we continue to promote innovation. Today, Sweden ranks second best in innovation throughout the world and best in Europe, which is of the utmost importance for our small export-dependent country. We should be proud of this, but we should not take it for granted. I am therefore pleased that the government continues to work to develop and stimulate the pace of innovation, including through the Innovation Council, the collaborative and innovation programmes and announced initiatives on RISE and within the framework of the research and innovation policy bill. Madam President, I would like Innovation and innovation are key areas of efforts to strengthen Swedish competitiveness while contributing to the global goals of sustainable development. In the climate crisis, it is important that our business community is given the right conditions for green change. The Government has also already carried out several measures within the Smart Industry strategy with the intention that the industry throughout Sweden will increase its competitiveness and its participation in primarily the highly qualified parts of the global value chains. This has given a clear direction to the transition in terms of digitalisation, sustainability, skills supply and innovation and research for Swedish industrial companies. Madam President, I would like Last Sunday, Lucia lit up the darkest time of the year. But there are other flashes of light I would like to mention, such as the fact that digitalisation during the pandemic has jumped forward for several years in its development and that we are achieving a long-term supply of competence through the expansion of the Knowledgelift. By 2021 there will be 144 400 more training places throughout Sweden. Why, then, is that important, Madam President? Because we want the establishment and expansion of companies to be possible throughout Sweden. There are other sparkles of light, such as the climate-smart industry that is emerging. In Skellefteå, Northvolt is building Europe's largest battery factory, which is expected to create 10,000 new jobs. Northvolt says that half of the raw material for the batteries will be recycled by 2030. The state-owned mining company LKAB has announced that they are making one of Sweden's largest investments ever to switch to fossil-free production in Kiruna and Gällivare. The investment will reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of the company's customers by an enormous 35 million tonnes per year and create 3 000 jobs. Volvo Cars announces that they are investing in electrical engine production in Skövde, which is expected to lead to 500 new jobs. Stockholm Exergi scale up to capture even more carbon dioxide, which they are world leaders in. Scania is investing billions in Södertälje to electrify its vehicles using battery cells from the Northvolt battery factory in Skellefteå. SSAB, together with Vattenfall and LKAB, will be the first in the world to produce steel without coal. Our Swedish companies are at the forefront, and it is important that all subcontractors and staff are also on the journey. Madam President, I would like For the Social Democratic-led government, trade policy is an important political area. We are a small export-dependent country far up north, and it is important that we find trading partners in our environment. The time of protectionism and closed borders that challenged both European and Nordic cooperation must be over. To this day, we are still reading about our border traders, whose customers previously consisted of requested guests, but who are now faced with empty premises and shelves. We still don't know what kind of Brexit we're getting. We must go back to a time of belonging, open markets and welcoming borders. Madam President, I would like The spread of the Corona virus is a global crisis. The economic impact is evident also in Sweden, not least for our many small businesses, self-employed and particularly vulnerable industries. One of the most sought-after opportunities for businesses and entrepreneurs has been to arrange skills for short-term work in order to secure staff skills and prepare the company for the post-corona period. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government commissions the Swedish Agency for Growth to get to work with skills in short-term work. The state's total budget for 2021 is staggeringly SEK 105 billion. It contains both measures to create jobs here and now as well as long-term reforms. At the same time, it is important to point out that we still cannot even see what the pandemic and its consequences will do. There will certainly be a need for further action in the economic and social fields. To sum up the most important of the budget for Category 24: It is a policy of strengthening competitiveness, the recovery of business, the green transition of business, skills development, digitalisation, life science, a strong and sustainable tourism industry and the simplification of businesses. Madam President, I would like In my village Åre, where the tourism industry Christmas and New Year usually beat record year after year, it will of course be very different this year. Here as in other tourist resorts, the industry has done everything to change to manage to receive guests throughout the winter without spreading the infection. For the tourism industry, the initiative on the restart, the strategy announced and Visit Sweden's new mission will be very important. In this time, it is important to remember two things: we are going to stand up, and we are going to reset. We will be there for society and our neighbours, and we will follow the recommendations and advice. We will switch to digital meetings and homework if we can, because then we will help them with essential services that have to work at the workplace.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1122	Madam President, I would like It took the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals eight nine months into the Corona crisis before coming to Parliament with a concrete proposal to help individual entrepreneurs. Many of them – it may be hairdressers, craftsmen or musicians – have not yet received the money and are in the middle of an application process, even though the crisis has been rolling for an extremely long time. Madam President, I would like Dagens Nyheter wrote a longer article on this theme as recently as yesterday, with the Hallgren He says this: When this spring it began to be discussed at press conferences on billion-dollar subsidies, I thought, like all other entrepreneurs, that there might be a chance of surviving this. But then it turned out that it did not apply to individual entrepreneurs. ..................................................... This entrepreneur, Daniel Hallgren, is far from alone. We're talking about a lot of people in important areas – hairdressers, musicians and a long line of others – who were left entirely alongside the work of the Social Democrats and the others. Many have now literally fought for the survival of their businesses and their private economy. My question, Madam President, is whether Mrs Sätherberg thinks it reasonable that they have had to wait this long and that many of them have still not been told whether they can receive crisis support at all.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1127	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for an important question. We who sit on the Committee on Economic Affairs had the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency just to ask why it takes so long with the payments. It is being pushed to money precisely to the Swedish Agency for Growth in this budget to ensure that the subsidies will come out, but some have waited a very long time. One should also know that there have been many different support. Not all the support has met all the companies, but I think almost all the companies have found some support in the flora that has existed. It is still the case that 200 billion have been paid out, and it is a lot of credit and deferred tax that is above that. There have been historical efforts that we have managed to actually stick through in the Swedish parliament – twelve extra budgets! Had we experienced a pandemic before and practised on it I think we had had much more in place than we had when we started. But one thing we learned during the financial crisis was short-term layoffs. Then we had a government that did not want to listen to industry's demands for lay-offs, as many other countries had already arranged. This led us to work on this issue much earlier and that it was ready for this pandemic, which was lucky. However, I share Lars Hjälmered's concern for small businesses when payments take too long; I share that concern.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1132	Madam President, I would like Short-term lay-off has worked very well for many companies, not least in industry. However, if you have an individual firm, you are by definition not employed and cannot therefore be laid off. It is not long processing times at the Swedish Tax Agency or the Swedish Growth Agency that have been the problem, but the problem has been that the Minister for Economic Affairs took almost nine months into the crisis before he and the government came to Parliament with a concrete proposal. Many have had to fight for their personal finances and for the survival of their company. Another part, Madam President, has been that support has gone very much to those with limited liability companies and that this far into the crisis it has been shown that many with partnerships have been left behind for some inscrutable reason for me. The second question I would like to ask Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg is what reasons she and the Social Democrats had for excluding them from partnerships so that they did not receive emergency support even though they had received it with limited companies.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1136	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered said the second question. The one about the trading company, however, was the only one I understood, so I'll take it. It has taken time, but now these subsidies will soon be in place. As far as individual companies are concerned, it has taken time; it is true. There have been 12 additional amending budgets in this House. Of course, the main aim has been to save people's lives and to cope with health care, public transport and what enables people who have to do the important jobs of society to be at work. There has also been a huge amount of support paid to Sweden's entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, some have fallen between the chairs. However, this will now be addressed, as the honourable Member knows very well.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1139	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating business in Sweden. There has been quite a lot of focus on the support that the government has decided on and which includes billions. Every day I, and certainly also Mrs Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg, get calls, emails and text messages from entrepreneurs who stand there on their knees and pray: When do I get a message? This has also escalated after the restrictions that came in November – we see not least how it has affected the restaurant industry. At the same time, not communicating what applies to this industry is a bit irresponsible in this situation – during the pandemic we face – when you also know that communication is incredibly important in this situation. My question is: Do you, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, think it is reasonable that the processing times have become this long and that the Swedish Growth Agency does not fully focus on paying out? We both listened to the Swedish Agency for Growth last week. There you also spend time and energy looking up companies and actually see them as villains in the whole from the start. You make sure everything goes right. Here I wonder whether the Social Democrats think that aid should actually be paid out at a much faster rate than is being done today.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1142	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Brodin for the question. I'll start with the last one. I think it is extremely important that we have control over the aid we are paying out and that they really go to those who need it and who are entitled to it. I am not someone who thinks that aid should be paid out and not controlled; I think the control function is as important as the time aspect of aid. But we were at a meeting, and the Swedish Agency for Growth told us about how other authorities have helped you and how you have hired several hundred people. However, it takes too long. I share the honourable Member's view – I think the whole committee does. We don't want it to take this long. It is about the liquidity of the smallest companies, and it is running out. As you say, we've all been courted or called or e-mailed. We know that for some – certainly not for everyone – it is a very strained situation, and we do not want to see it. That is why in this draft budget, as I have just said to the other Member, there is money both to ensure control and to ensure that more can be employed so that subsidies come out. I think, of course, that both are equally important.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1146	Madam President, I would like We see here the need for a more rapid process of government. When we demand companies to digitise and reset, Government Sweden should also be able to cope with this at a much faster rate. We need to tell these companies. Policies need to be credible in terms of the information they give. This is not the news. Individual traders are still wondering how they can pay wages at all. They're waiting for word. They do not even know if there is any news and wonder: What does this mean for me? I believe that the Social Democrats and the government are responsible for delivering a message. What do you say to all entrepreneurs, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg? It's almost Christmas. Will they be able to receive support? How will it be paid? Every day that goes by means of a loss of revenue.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1149	Madam President, I would like I, like the honourable Member, think that the subsidies should be paid out on time. It is about companies and their liquidity, about knowing that you can last the rest of the months. I am not sitting on the authority myself and cannot tell you exactly how long it will take. We had an appreciation. We were told that they would have managed to pay 75%, I think it was, of the subsidies before Christmas. That message is also the only thing that you and I, who have a dialogue with the authority, can give, Camilla Brodin. I agree that it should take less time to get the subsidies. At the same time, I understand the Swedish Agency for Growth, which has received a variety of assignments regarding forms of support that they have never worked with at the same time as time is of such great importance.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1152	Madam President, I would like As both I and Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg have pointed out in this debate, it is clear that the tourism industry is the industry most affected by the pandemic. As a consequence, the industry has tried to change as far as possible. Restaurants, restaurants, cafés and so on have started to offer and deliver take away to a greater extent throughout the country. It has been an opportunity for them to reset, an attempt to generate any revenue at all. But it has also, of course, made it easier for the spread-conscious consumer who does not want to eat out there. In other words, it is a profit for both business and public health. Nevertheless, work is under way by the Social Democrats to implement an excise duty on disposable plastic articles in the coming years, including just take away products. In addition to the fact that it is essentially another symbol tax, it is undoubtedly in danger of making things more difficult for an already hard-pressed industry, while it is in direct contradiction to the ambition that fewer people should move out, eat at a restaurant, etcetera. Madam President, I would like I understand that AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg cannot answer on behalf of the government. The question therefore concerns the position of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal. Do the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs intend to support the proposed excise duty of up to SEK 7 on a coffee cup or a take away lunch box and thus make it more difficult for business and risk increased spread of infection?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1155	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member is right. Take away has really increased during the pandemic. It is good that more and more people buy take away to support the restaurant industry when you can no longer sit tight or be many in the premises. Shop at your restaurant on the way home! It's incredibly good. I don't know how many times I bring plastic cutlery when I buy take away. I don't usually bring any cutlery at all; it's usually sticks to the food I eat. I also usually have cutlery at home, if it's home I'm going to go. Otherwise, they are also usually made of wood. I think you'll have to discuss excise duty in a tax debate, Tobias Andersson. But we can still have a small tax debate, now that you're talking so hot about the restaurant business. I wonder how, in this particular situation, it can be thought that the best idea to help the tourism industry is to raise the restaurant VAT. Why is that?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1158	Madam President, I would like I can see that there was no answer to the question. I think it is a key aspect. We have all helped as Members of Parliament to try to create better conditions for the tourism industry to overwinter in the crisis they are in. To continue with a proposal on excise duty which would greatly restrict the possibility for the industry to switch and to offer us as consumers a safe alternative to consume food and, at the same time, to support the business community, seems to me to be quite remarkable. Even politicians can err. Theory may conflict with practice. But then one must also dare to admit it, stand back, think about it, and in this case perhaps delete one of the points in the January agreement. I would like once again to try to find out how the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs will stand up to this excise duty. It will significantly reduce the possibility of offering take away as an alternative.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1161	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer either with regard to the restaurant VAT and the increase that I believe the Swedish Democrats are the only party that wants to implement. If it's something that the restaurant business definitely doesn't need, it's raised restaurant VAT. It applies to the whole amount. With regard to a plastic debate, I have to say that I would like to see the forest used instead to make such disposable articles. I want other things to be used than oil-based products, if possible. We are not going to deal with the excise duty on plastic here. However, I am sorry that I did not get an answer as to why the Swedish Democrats in this situation are going forward with an increase in restaurant VAT.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1164	I would like to remind you of the rules that we have in this House, so that you all remember them. I know it is difficult, but a Member who speaks to another speaker in a debate, for example by responding to arguments, should use the speaker's first and last name. That is a good rule for the continuation and applies to everyone in this House. It's not always easy.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1165	Madam President, I would like It is not always easy to stick to the rules of debate. I have a question for Mrs Sätherberg. We are in a situation where we must save our economy. At the same time, we have a rut side move that is not self-financing. I think every job in the route service sector costs about SEK 1.5 million a year. The groups that have to pay the costs are therefore groups that do not even make use of those services. The groups that use the services are largely the richer part of society. Apart from waste, it also leads to greater inequality. In fact, we need to spend the resources on investing in order to create jobs. I personally believe in getting well out of the crisis by investing climate smart and so on and by training so that people are really on their feet. But you choose to bet billions on expanding the rut side features. I wonder if that's wise.
i-V35Tyq7UjGyvERXgBRmVX8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for the question. In the pandemic, we must ensure that every job is kept. I think that is the most important thing, no matter what industry it is and no matter what it looks like. Unemployment has increased. I therefore do not believe that we should change any reforms so that fewer jobs are created in any industry. Right now it is important that people have a job to go to. I take note of what Lorena Delgado Varas says about the chance to educate or do something else. What we did together with the Left Party in 2014– 2018 and now with others is to expand the Knowledgelift and ensure that there are educational places throughout Sweden. Next year, we're up to 144,400 places since we took over power. This is super important, and it is also important that they exist throughout Sweden. We want companies to be able to grow and provide skills throughout the country. Today, the jobs that exist are incredibly important regardless of the industry. During the last parliamentary term, 300 000 jobs were created, of which over 100 000 in welfare, and welfare workers are the most needed right now.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1172	Madam President, I would like It was good that Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg raised the issue of welfare. The Corona report that came today shows that, in the relaxed care of the elderly, divided into 1 000 companies, there is often weak job security, low wages and poor skills upgrading. This can be a contributing factor to the situation in care for the elderly. Is it not time to clean up and prioritise right among welfare companies, so that our tax money goes to what they are going to do, such as hiring more people and providing them with secure employment? It is also a way to create jobs, secure jobs, so that we can move forward.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1174	Madam President, I would like Together with the Liberals and the Center Party, the government is investing a great deal in elderly care. It is one of this year's largest budget lines with, among other things, an elderly care lift in order to be able to train at the workplace from a nurse to a nurse and beyond. During the pandemic we have seen what shortcomings there are in the care of the elderly, and therefore it has been easy to get all four parties involved that there needs to be big investments for 2021.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1176	Madam President, audiences and viewers! Three weeks ago, a woman called me. She and her husband own a handful of restaurants in Stockholm. For many years they have spent their soul in the company and invested both time and capital. It's their life's work. Next week it may be so bad that the woman and her husband have to put the restaurants in bankruptcy and lay off their staff. It was supposed to be a hit on the couple and their employees. She told me that they have lost 90 – 95% of their turnover recently, and after five months they have still not received corporate support. Well, support was rejected because she happened to make an administrative error that she was not allowed to change. This is the reality for this couple and for many other entrepreneurs around Sweden. The Center Party has therefore taken the initiative to invite Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan to the Committee on Economic Affairs this Thursday, something that the other parties have also welcomed. The initiative stems from concerns that business support is being handled too slowly by the responsible authorities. We need to know what the minister and government are going to do to solve the problem. Although the January parties have decided to provide more money for this purpose, which I am pleased about, one cannot wait until some time after the end of the year when there is a crisis today as an entrepreneur in an unsustainable situation. Every day that goes by is crucial for many companies. To tell the truth, entrepreneurs are increasingly in despair and worried that the management of conversion aid and short-term work is so slow. Politics has set aside money, and I am proud that the Center Party, together with most other parties in the Riksdag, has done their part to make this a reality. It is not acceptable, then, for aid to be stuck in the system rather than helping businesses. Madam President, I would like There are many of us, not least in this House, who have heard testimony both via the media and directly from entrepreneurs that the management of aid takes a long time, makes entrepreneurship difficult and creates uncertainty. I therefore hope that on Thursday, the Minister for Enterprise and Industry will report on what has been done and what will be done to speed up the payment of aid. We and, above all, hard-pressed entrepreneurs need answers to whether and if so, when handling can work better. The country's hard-working entrepreneurs do their utmost to save jobs and avoid the destruction of themselves. I heard about those who have borrowed everything they can from Almi and even pawned their houses to keep their employees. It's pretty heroic. At the same time, they are waiting for support that they do not receive, and they do not know whether or not they will receive it. Madam President, I would like Many thousands of entrepreneurs throughout the country are fighting for life. It's about saving your own life's work and your own livelihood. As I said, it is also about being able to keep their employees. It is jobs that are incredibly important for the local economy and absolutely central to the lives of individual individuals. We all know that the pandemic and restrictions have made that fight tough. It's getting smaller between the customers and harder to get the plus and minus to go together. For many fundamentally healthy, well-liked and well-managed companies, there have been red figures since March. That is why the Riksdag has decided on support measures that will facilitate and help companies to endure in anticipation of better times. As I said earlier, in principle the entire Parliament has been involved pragmatically and has contributed to this support. That's good. There's money for business support. Madam President, I would like Yet it works very badly. Business support has been allowed to remain in the hands of the authorities, where long processing times and extensive red tape cause entrepreneurs to live in fear and uncertainty. There are examples of entrepreneurs who have called to find out when payments can be made and met by the agency hanging up. That, of course, is beneath any criticism. I sincerely hope that does not happen often. Madam President, I would like When entrepreneurs struggle and turn on every sausage ear to make the business go together and politics produce support money, it simply must not work this bad. We cannot have companies that go bankrupt and people who are kicked out into unemployment because the public does not deliver. The government must take responsibility for this. Many companies have now been waiting for months to hear from the Swedish Agency for Growth about continued support for short-term work but also compensation for conversion aid. You end up in a really weird place here. You can't plan for the future. It is not acceptable to have it that way. The new support that is determined for next year will also be decided by the Riksdag in mid-February. When we had the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency with us last week, they told us that it will take up to eight weeks before new systems are in place, and then we are in April. Today, entrepreneurs are looking at whether or not they can keep their staff. In the meantime, they have to spend money to pay staff salaries. I know the authorities are doing the best they can. I also know that the Directors-General of the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Administration told us that they have received instructions from the government to curb cheating. This is one of the reasons why different cases are examined manually, and that is why it takes such a time. In Germany, a different path has been chosen. There, aid is paid out at once and you choose to claim back money afterwards if that is the case. We have simply chosen different models to manage the payments. Of course, taxpayers' money should be used in the best way and the possibility of cheating should be minimised, but if companies go bankrupt and staff lose their jobs, what have they really won?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1193	Madam President, I would like I think Helena Lindahl really puts words on the situation that many entrepreneurs find themselves in. It is far into the crisis and has been struggling for a long time. Perhaps measures have been taken, fixed-term workers have been laid off, own capital has been used, and perhaps new money has been paid, and in other ways they have really tried to make their life's work work work work work and survive. I think Helena Lindahl well describes the problems that the authorities have here, i.e. long processing times. The fact that it takes five to eight weeks to adapt a computer system to a parliamentary decision seems to me to be rather absurd in this context, when entrepreneurs have the problems they have in vulnerable sectors of society. Then, Madam President, the Center Party has a great responsibility in the situation we are now in. We do not come from the fact that the country is governed by a coalition of S, MP, C and L, which has negotiated various types of crisis aid. It is a fact that it very often takes a long time for the four parties to agree whether to support and help businesses at all. When you have done this and had a press conference or debate article, it has usually taken months for the proposals to come to Parliament. When the Riksdag is finished, it takes as Helena Lindahl described when it comes to authorities and hassles afterwards. For the so-called turnover aid, it has been announced that it will be extended for the months of August onwards. The proposal is currently being referred to the Riksdag next year. At best, an affected entrepreneur may receive money in March or April 2021, just over six months after the month in question. I don't think that's good enough. Therefore, my question is: what is the responsibility of the Center Party, and what do you intend to do to correct the errors that have occurred?
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1197	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered is right that it has taken time, many times too long, to negotiate the support. But I can say that I am delighted that the Center Party has been at the negotiating table, because otherwise I am afraid that it might have been less money for the companies. Then I will not say that others have not contributed to putting pressure on the negotiations. Of course, it has helped us. What I really find most remarkable is that it takes such a huge amount of time before existing subsidies can be paid out – there is actually money set aside – and that it should go so far that people call every day and are told that you cannot answer when they should be told. In the meantime, they may choose to put their business, their life's work, into bankruptcy. That's not really the idea. We're trying to do what we can. We are putting pressure on the government and Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan on this issue. We were involved in calling the Minister for Enterprise to the committee. The Minister for Industry is very well aware, I would guess, of this problem. This has got to work out. The government has, of course, given instructions to the authorities, because it is the government that makes the decisions and has the ongoing contact with the authorities, not us. For example, tax evasion should be curbed, which has taken a very long time. That is not to say that it is not important, but you have to be able to hold two balls in the air. It should be possible to examine and pay out. As I said in my speech, Germany has chosen a completely different path. It might be interesting to look at also for Sweden.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1201	Madam President, I would like There are several problems with the management of crisis aid to businesses. As has been said, it takes time for the cooperating parties to negotiate and to be able to give a statement as to whether they intend to help businesses. The government has found it very difficult to quickly come up with proposals for the Riksdag. It may take months for several of the proposals, which is completely unreasonable in the acute crisis that we are in. I think that the authorities within their missions can often act faster, more quickly and more resolutely than they have done. We also have the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government to govern the authorities, which, frankly, they have not been able to do. In between all this, Madam President, there are many entrepreneurs in the country. I have said this before: those who run an individual firm have had to wait eight nine months in the crisis before the Minister for Economic Affairs has returned to Parliament. For me, this is nothing more than an accident, and it is splashing in part, I think, also over at the Center Party, which must take responsibility in this.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1203	Madam President, I would like Again, the Center Party has been very driving both for the support that is available now and for the support that will be available next year. The problem is the bureaucracy surrounding the handling. I think you should focus on this now, not really on whose fault it was, why you haven't done this or so or why the decisions took so long. I believe that we are currently going to make sure that we get the money out to the entrepreneurs, because it is often on the brink of ruin. They are not helped by the fact that we are pointing the finger, but now it is just to ensure that the aid allocated to entrepreneurs also benefits them. After all, companies that have gone bankrupt and had to lay off their staff do not pay taxes to the state, and then it is an even greater loss, both to the state and to the individual, of course.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1205	Madam President, I would like Thank you to previous debaters. It feels like there has been a debate that has highlighted much of what the proposal before us is about. I would like to start in a slightly different place, Madam President, than where the debate has been in the past. I will be involved in my speech to Corona, the situation of Swedish companies right now and the long-term economic development, but I think we are missing something here. I think that we are perhaps a little mystifying what a company and business is. For example, when you listen to the broad, collected left, it sounds like businesses are something abstract and complicated, something other than ordinary people – that entrepreneurs are something else. But that's not the case. A company is just two, three or more people who have joined forces and agreed to do something together. They have signed a contract with each other that one does one thing and the other does another thing, and then you share the burden. You do something in common. Then they have found other people – sometimes individuals or other associations and contacts with individuals who do or offer something else. Maybe they have money and they want to buy something. Maybe they have a product and they want to trade for something else. Then, through companies, it has been organised so that one can easily help one another with the needs one has. Madam President, I would like I do not understand how one can talk about this with such contempt as is sometimes done. Sometimes you don't understand because it's just ordinary people who come together, cooperate and do something for each other. When you are an entrepreneur and if you are good and do things that others like – you may make something that others need or have a service that someone else wants to use – you can get a money for it. After a while you can if you are lucky and are skilled take out some of this money in profit. This profit is the wages of the entrepreneurs. It's no more complicated than that. When you listen to the collected left, it sometimes sounds like profit is bad and pay is good. But it's exactly the same thing. It's about people doing something for others. Maybe you go to work in a factory, in the public sector, in a store, in an office. Perhaps you invest your time and work in running a business. Then you pick out a salary. Sometimes we call pay profit, and sometimes we call it a regular wage. In the end, it's just that you've done something for others. Madam President, I would like Industries, large and small, as well as small businesses, individual companies, trading companies, collectively owned and workers-owned companies, which the Left is happy to talk about, have this in common. If you do a lot for others and if you create a lot of value for others, you can pick out a little higher profit. For example, if you produce many face masks, if you are able to quickly produce a lot of breathing support for the care, if you are able to produce a lot of vaccine quickly or if you are good at building hospitals, as others need, you can get a small profit for it. I don't understand why the left thinks this is so ugly. These are small businesses which also challenge and create dynamism in the market. They drive innovation. It's something absolutely amazing. Earlier today, it has been said that four out of five jobs are being created in business. The truth is, Madam President, that five out of five jobs are financed by enterprising people and business. One could not hire a single nurse, teacher, police or anyone else in the public sector unless an enterprising person had first created value for others and made a profit that we could tax. Every penny comes from an effort and an investment by someone who has been an entrepreneur. I do not understand how the left can be against the kind of freedom of organisation that it entails when you voluntarily join together and start up a business. Madam President, I would like If two or three people come up with a good idea or a good innovation and want to do something for others and voluntarily organize themselves in company form, they may encounter some different problems along the way. It can be too high taxes that make it difficult to save up for a start-up capital so that you can make a reality of your idea. It can be hard to hire someone more. It can be difficult to get space to drive innovation beyond the core of what you are doing. This, of course, hits the people who initially have the least money. If you are really rich from the beginning it is quite easy to get start capital, because you do not have to save anything or stretch and gneta to get this together. You have it from the beginning. The person who suffers from high taxes is the person who initially has small margins. Madam President, I would like Other things you can encounter are regulatory problems, bureaucracy or tough and long state processes. This is again something that is particularly affecting those enterprising people who have little resources from the outset. It may be people who come from a background where you may not have a lot of friends who work as lawyers who have to work on how the bureaucracy works. They may not have any social contacts to help them with all the problems that arise for entrepreneurs. These people are hardest hit by red tape. It is not about the largest companies that make the biggest investments. Yes, it can be more expensive and some company can not because the bureaucracy is too hard. But those who are most affected are the people who are the toughest in the first place. I am therefore surprised when the Left Party talks about making room for women's innovation. So do I. What stands in the way of women's innovation is too high taxes, too many rules, too much bureaucracy and too long and complicated permit processes. What stands in the way of a guy from the suburbs starting a business and succeeding with it is once again high taxes and tough regulations. He may have grown up in a family where both parents do not work and may have friends who do not train. It is for these people that the state stands in the way. I wish that, as the Left Party talked about, we could jointly create space for innovation and entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like In this budget, we have, among other things, received EUR 30 billion in tax cuts on labour and entrepreneurship. It is precisely what we have been talking about, namely to stop standing in the way of people's innovation and stop standing in the way when people want to voluntarily join forces and create value for others. But we have to do more. It is, of course, a matter of continuing to ensure that taxes move towards at least ending up on an OECD cut so that we can compete better with other countries in the world. We must ensure that we always have electricity and energy so that it does not restrict people in their life choices and restrict entrepreneurs. Furthermore, we must have an educational system that works. We need to make it easier for people with the right skills to come here and work. It is simply a matter of seeing people's own creative power and allowing people, regardless of their background, to have space. It is only then that we can see a business and an economy that is growing throughout the country. It is only when we unleash this power that we can obtain funding for future police officers, infirmaries and teachers. I support what we are debating.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1225	Madam President, I would like A lot of entrepreneurs in Sweden are now under pressure in the ongoing Corona crisis. Some industries have done well, such as industry and grocery stores, but there is still a lot of pressure for many entrepreneurs, not least in areas such as retailing, tourism and parts of the service sector. We know that there has been a major problem with the management and management of all the crisis aid that has existed. Several of them have been absolutely right to implement, such as tax suspension and lay-off, which has worked well for many companies. This also applies to the conversion aid, which has been an entirely correct measure in principle and has been directed at those who have been particularly affected. But there have been major shortcomings in how the January parties have dealt with this. Only yesterday Dagens Nyheter wrote about Daniel Hallgren, who runs a concept and interior design company. He said, "When last spring it started to be discussed at press conferences about billion-dollar subsidies, I thought, like all other entrepreneurs, that maybe there's a chance of surviving this. But then it turned out that it did not apply to individual entrepreneurs. This is one example among several. We know that many entrepreneurs believe that the extended conversion aid is already in place. There, a proposal has not even come to Parliament. It is now out for consultation. The idea is that it will not come until January 15 next year, if I remember correctly. That is why, Madam President, on the subject of the forthcoming legislative proposal, I would like to ask Joar Forssell what he and the Liberals will do in concrete terms to avoid the same mistakes in the extension of the conversion aid, the support that his party and others have received in the past with the problems that have been.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1230	Madam President, I would like In fact, I would like to start by thanking Lars Hjälmered and the other members of both the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance for the fact that during this very tough time we have had a very constructive job. I have attended meetings in the Finance Committee where all parties have balled up ideas and proposals and caught up and recorded things from outside that have then become reality in one of the now quite many amending budgets that have been tabled. I would like to thank Lars Hjälmered and other Members who have been involved in this work for, because this is an extremely tough and difficult situation. From the Liberal side, we have repeatedly wrapped up exactly the things that Mrs Helmered is now highlighting. We have suspended taxes, layoffs and conversion and turnover subsidies. We have brought Almi and Företagsakuten together, and we have also raised the problems raised by Hjälmered in his speech. Madam President, I would like In a negotiation with other parties you do not always get everything through. The things I'm talking about now I'm very happy that the Liberals have got through, also with pressure from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. In fact, Madam President, I believe that this is exactly what will be the way forward: that we have a good, constructive job in the Swedish Parliament and that at the negotiating table, in this case with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, we are ensuring that we push for reforms that are about saving entrepreneurs and ensuring that people get the support that they are actually entitled to. I am also critical of the fact that it has taken too long, but it is not actually the Liberals' fault. I know that Mrs Helmered has put this question to other parties during this debate. I think that is right, because what is at issue here is that our negotiating partners have sometimes not met with us.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1236	Madam President, I would like I do not think this is easy in the difficult crisis that we are in. When this came as a tidal wave, figuratively speaking, into Sweden, action began quickly. Some became right, others didn't get right, but I think a common problem has been that the four January parties have been slow to give information. For example, will conversion aid be extended to affected companies or not? Why does it take so long to give targeted support to those with an individual firm? Why have commercial companies just been thrown aside without any reasonable explanations from the Minister for Economic Affairs? In addition, we have this whole government control system. If you are to act faster, it should be acted from there. Liberals and others have a responsibility to influence future legislation. Should there be a requirement for an auditor's certificate? For which turnover should such requirements be made? How to find the balance between efficiency and control? There, too, the Liberals can influence.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1240	Madam President, I would like I can only agree. It is clear that, basically, this is about people who have been banned on many occasions in practice. Moreover, tax money from the outset comes from enterprising people who are working hard and doing the right thing, and it is clear that you should quickly get the support that you need. Something else would be unreasonable. It is also the case that if we want to be able to finance tax in the future, we need to have a business that not only survives but also lives and prospers. Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that we need to look at the points raised by Mrs Helmered in future in the legislative work. Another lesson to be drawn from the situation in which we find ourselves, I think, is that when restrictions are presented in the future, compensation needs to be presented at the same time. It is not reasonable that one can do one without seeing the other cost. This would be done if, at the same time, we were required to present compensations.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1243	Madam President, I would like It is a high note about what the Left Party thinks and does not like companies. Firstly, I would like to say that we are absolutely not against companies. But we look at things differently. We see that things belong together. They affect each other, and you support each other. Madam President, I would like For others, companies do not stand for themselves. The three people you mentioned have been trained. They probably have somewhere to live, they get care and so on. There is probably a path that goes all the way to the company, and you may have received innovation support to be able to continue working and develop your products. No – The Left Party is not against companies. On the contrary, we are putting forward proposals to support, for example, the social security of small businesses. J ag thinks you need to think about that picture and perhaps also read in our budget to see what we have to offer especially small businesses.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1247	Madam President, I would like I have read both the Left Party budget and Karl Marx Capital. It doesn't make me any more confident that the Left Party likes companies. There is a fundamental problem with the Left Party's view of entrepreneurship, and I actually wrote down something that the Left Party said here earlier in the debate: Our companies need to organise themselves in a new way. Our companies. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I do not believe that this is about companies owned by the Left Party Party. Nor do I think that Mrs Lorena Delgado Varas refers to the company of her own workers' collective. I believe, Madam President, that when she says that our companies should be organised in a new way, she is talking about the companies of enterprising individuals that they have built up. She talks about people who have signed contracts with each other and voluntarily chose to do something together for others and perhaps get a money, a small salary, a small profit for this hard work. She's talking about deciding how other people volunteer to organize themselves. But it is no longer very voluntary how to organize yourself when the Left Party comes and says that our companies are going to organise themselves in a new way. Madam President, I would like I object to this picture. Companies are owned by private individuals and run by enterprising people who want to do something better and who want to contribute. It is also when you manage to create value for others that you can make a profit. It is not dangerous; it is what makes the economy roll and society work.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1253	Madam President, I would like The hard tone continues. To explain a little to Mr Forssell: Yes, the companies need to organise themselves properly, because what we saw when the pandemic started and the crisis came was that very many companies that made a lot of profit over very many years were not prepared even to face a few weeks of crisis. That is what we saw at the beginning, and thanks to the fact that the state supported these companies in different ways, they have managed to keep some of their staff and keep their business alive. The second thing I wanted to mention was the OECD that you mentioned. A report just a month ago showed that Sweden has the seventh most competitive taxes in an international comparison. We have low property taxes and low wealth taxes. It is not really so bad to be an entrepreneur in Sweden.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1257	Madam President, I would like Normally, a liberal would have been happy when the Left Party says that the state should do less. It's just that this crisis is not a common crisis. This is not about companies that have been poorly managed and therefore in distress. This is about the state saying that if you are an entrepreneur, you who run a restaurant or have a travel company – you are not allowed to carry out your business. Those of you who have been customers are not allowed to buy what this entrepreneur is offering. In practice, it is reasonable to give support when banning a business. But then, Madam President, let us remind ourselves that every crown that will go in the form of business support for an enterprising person is a crown that has originally been created in the business world and not at the Ministry of Industry in Powerpoints or at the Left Party Chancellor's Office. Every penny of business support comes from the start from entrepreneurs because that's where the economy and bnp really are created.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1259	Despite the late hour, I humbly remind you that our parliamentary practice means that the speaker formally directs his speech to the President and thus indirectly to the Members of this House. Simply put, one might think, this means that the members of Parliament talk about each other and not to each other. Members speak to the President and tell him what they think on various issues. A Member who speaks of another speaker in a debate by responding to arguments should use the speaker's first and last name. This means that direct appeal between the speakers, such as saying you or you to each other, should not occur. This was a little evening reminder.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1261	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is once again here with full force. We heard here in an illustration that it is like a tidal wave that washes over us. It's a fitting illustration. There is, unfortunately, once again an increase in the spread of infection, and this is likely to happen this time of year. The companies are having a tough time. They're fighting. People lose their jobs, and their life's work goes to waste. To meet this, the government and the cooperation parties have worked for everything the fabric holds to get support in place. No one could be prepared for that kind of crisis. We have delivered amending budget after amending budget. Of course, some things have gotten a little crazy, and some things have come too late, but it has been a continuous effort to improve and try to see what has fallen between the chairs, catch in and improve. It is good that Parliament's parties are helped to capture and constantly push for the best interests of Sweden. The support for short-term lay-off has been put in place. It is the most widely used aid. As we have heard before, nothing came into place during the financial crisis when the industry wanted it. In December, as many as half a million employees benefited from short-term lay-off aid. The issue of the smallest companies has been raised several times. I would like to remind you that employers' contributions and social security contributions were temporarily reduced in the first four months. That drop hit all the companies. Targeted support has been given to the cultural sector, which has many individual traders. Of course, support for individual traders could have come earlier, and it is important that we now lower the turnover limit – the threshold – so that more people can benefit from the aid. There will also be an amending budget in the future. As regards the Swedish Agency for Growth's processing times, there is a continuous dialogue between the Government Office and the Authority; further information is given to the Committee. We are now pushing to 15 million in the budget to improve the work of the Swedish Agency for Growth. When the crisis began, the Swedish Agency for Growth was not equipped for this type of payment of large aid. The work has borrowed staff, tried to remove double reporting and automated as much as possible. Improvements are needed, but much improvement is also being done. Then there is the question of control. Aid must be paid out quickly, but there needs to be a check, not least for entrepreneurs, so that they do not become reimbursable afterwards. It is also not a fun place to end up as an entrepreneur. But not only are we in a global pandemic, but we are also in a climate crisis. It has been called an existential crisis by many. It affects what our lives will look like on the planet now and in the future. We are also in a crisis of species in which biodiversity is declining at a raging rate at what is called the sixth mass extinction. The UN went out about two weeks ago that we are heading for a three-degree heat. It is clearly linked to the economy. The World Economic Forum identified climate and biodiversity as the two main risks to the economy in the future. We cannot get back out of the crisis because yesterday was the problem, but we must move forward with a green transition. Here the government and the cooperation parties have developed a climate action plan and a circular economy strategy that points the direction for this. The Green Party has been called the Green Industrial Friend in the autumn. To sum up our industrial policy, it is about long-term and clear rules of the game, structured collaboration and sharing risks with the business community. For the long-term rules of the game, the Climate Act is in place, the Fuel Change etc. For the structured collaboration there are collaboration programmes for the business community in the climate area. Furthermore, it is Fossil-free Sweden with all these climate roadmaps. In terms of risk sharing, the total amount of research, innovation funds and green credits is 50 billion. It is therefore a question of preferential loans for industry that wants to convert to fossil-free. We have seen in the autumn that Preem was a debated issue. They finally decided to withdraw the application that could have made them the largest emitter of carbon dioxide in Sweden. Instead, they invest in biofuels. It was the result of a massive crowd storm and a combination of long-term rules of play and sharing risks. Both DN, Today's Industry and Flame have paid attention to this. Today's industry shows that a change of government is in reality a business risk if the green pressure on the business community disappears or weakens. I would also like to mention the circular economy. Here, too, there are budgetary initiatives. Here it is simply a matter of us not being able to continue digging up and taking material out of the earth's crust unbridled. We are consuming today as if there are four planets, and that is not sustainable. We have a planet. Ultimately, it is natural resources that set the limits, not the economy. The budget includes an investment in metals and minerals from secondary sources that will roll in 2021 and 2022. There, SGU has previously had a mission, which will now continue to develop. The previous assignment showed that in slag heaps in Sweden, half of the EU's need for vanadium is in place. In order to meet the circular economy, the industrial life has been expanded and broadened to include battery production. But this is not only about a shift in technology but also about a shift in skills. We have heard in the past about the extremely important knowledge boost. I would also like to highlight digitalisation. Digitizing or dying was a concept coined with Corona. Almi supports small companies to pilot them in how to reset digitally. There are also collaborative and demonstration projects where the government invests money to develop digitally. Then there is the collaboration programme Skills Supply and Lifelong Learning, which the government has launched before. It has also been valuable in coronatides. We have constantly cut off companies there. Now a change is being made so that short-term work can also be used to take the opportunity to develop skills. It should not only be a matter of lay-off, but also of changing and acquiring new skills that benefit individuals, businesses and society.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1277	Madam President, I would like In recent years there have been a number of tense and exciting projects. Hybrid is an example that is often mentioned in the political debate. The other week it was LKAB's big planned investment in Norrbotten. And there's a series of other projects. A great deal of this is about prominent industrial efforts which in some sense combine economic development and growth with green transformation. In her speech, Amanda Palmstierna spoke about Fossil-free Sweden's action plans, which I find very stimulating. One of these is a so-called battery strategy, where the possibilities of batteries in the society for vehicles and a lot of other things are a little simplified. It talks not only about energy supply, which is a critical point, but also about environmental conditions. I have noted that the Deputy Prime Minister and the spokesperson Isabella Lövin have cherished this strategy. But here too, Madam President, we can see that one of the problems in Sweden is environmental permit processes. So it is not just the Moderates who lift this. It is enough to read today's industry or call almost any industrial company to see that there is often a huge will. You have money that you want to invest in new projects on the theme of sustainability. But you can see that the licensing processes take a long time and cost a lot of money, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about the outcome. Important industrial projects and things that can enable Sweden to achieve its climate and energy goals can thus be jeopardised because we have such permit processes. So far, I have not seen any concrete initiatives, but I would still like to ask Amanda Palmstierna what initiatives she and the government parties have that they intend to come up with that can greatly shorten the processing times for industries and other companies.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1283	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! I would like to say that we have a number of initiatives under way. We have an investigation to shorten the time for environmental assessments, which is also agreed in the climate action plan. It exists, and the work is in progress. As for things that have already come into place, we provide money to the county administrative board. This is in order to cope with environmental tests more quickly, because it is also a resource issue. This needs to be investigated, and the proposals need to be made so that we get this on the ground. This is an extremely important issue. I would also like to say that a common misconception is that we in the Green Party would only be negative about changing environmental conditions. That is not true, but we think it is important that we do not take more time than is necessary. On the other hand, it is important that environmental issues are not dealt with and that legal certainty is there. Sometimes there can be complex balances, and then they need to be done as they should be done. We want to cut the death time that exists, but we do not want to tax environmental protection. As I said, there are investigations in progress, and the County Administrative Board has received additional funds to do this better.
i-3f1dbc83dd32f305-1289	Madam President, I would like I hope that we can come back to discussion and also decisions. I believe that we need to strengthen the right to change permits, ensure that we do not have a double regulation of industrial emissions directives and environmental testing in Sweden and take several other concrete measures, because it can take both five and ten years. Madam President, I think that Amanda Palmstierna had an important point in her speech on the circularity of mining and mineral issues. I would like us to be able to increase recycling and reuse. But just as true is that we need more mining operations in Sweden. What is picked up is needed to build in Sweden, for renewable energy, for mobile phones and much more. Here I think there is a problem, Madam President, because the government has had ready-made mining applications for, for example, the Kallak and Laver projects on its table for years. Then we'll come back to the permit issue. We are happy to cut the processing time, but if it is for several years on the Minister's table, for example, it is a problem. When will decisions on such important mining projects be made?
i-GEWfcYdVcR5QH5jtqB453P	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! I cannot say when the decision on this will come because we are now waiting for UNESCO to speak on Kallak. It also depends on how long it takes for them. I will also say, as I said earlier, that we are concerned that the environmental review is carried out in a good way and that we are looking at a sustainable society in the long term. Then I will not stand and defend the fact that it has taken a long time on the Kallak issue. Our member of the Constitutional Committee has also made that clear. It's like suffering both for them living on the site and for the company. Here we simply need to work better in the future.
