i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-4	Madam, take the lman! David Josefsson has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration what concrete measures he is prepared to take in the near future to reduce the crime exposure of entrepreneurs and their employees. The interpellation has been handed over to me. David Josefsson highlights two studies on the perceived concern about crime among entrepreneurs. Both the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Trade Unions Security Panel show that too many entrepreneurs are worried about being exposed to crime. The government takes a very serious view of crime affecting entrepreneurs and has taken a series of measures to reduce crime and increase security. Sweden should be a safe country to live and work in, and it is therefore worrying that entrepreneurs feel worried about the risk of being exposed to crime. It is better to see some reductions in corporate crime. Both the number of registered store robberies and the number of shop burglaries have decreased sharply over the past ten years. The government is currently making a major effort to combat both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. The government has developed the first national crime prevention programme in 20 years, with common objectives in all policy areas. It is very positive that the Swedish Police Authority, together with Svensk Handel and actors in the grocery trade, have taken the initiative to discuss how increased cooperation between police and industry can help reduce crime in vulnerable areas. Furthermore, since 2014, the government has taken the initiative to impose some fifty penalties. Among other things, the scale of penalties for several serious violent crimes has been tightened. A new camera surveillance team entered into force on 1 August 2018. This means that most companies can now conduct camera surveillance without having to apply for a permit from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. In addition, the Government intends to come back with proposals for a regulation on a ban on access to stores during the spring. Overall, the government strengthens the judiciary and creates better conditions to increase security and combat all forms of crime. Sweden's entrepreneurs should be able to feel safe.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The grocery store that puts up physical obstacles to nobody being able to frame the entrance with a car, the factory that gets to reschedule because the employees do not dare to get to and from work late evenings and early mornings, engineers and developers who shake their heads and refer to the security when the big company asks if they want to come to Sweden and work – it's the reality that companies describe to me when I talk to them about how it is to run companies in Gothenburg and Sweden. In a survey among members of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, 72 percent said that they are concerned that crime can lead to negative consequences for their companies. It's almost three out of four. Of these, 81% had increased their concerns over the last two years. In total, 62% replied that they believed that their companies' costs of crime and crime prevention would increase over the next five years. None of the entrepreneurs surveyed felt that their concerns had diminished over the last two years. Neither did any of the entrepreneurs believe that costs would decrease over the next five years. Uncertainty affects our companies' opportunities to grow and develop. This also puts growth and employment at risk. Sweden has ended up in a situation where insecurity and crime affect not only individuals but society as a whole. I do not doubt the intentions of the Government, Madam President. I believe that Ibrahim Baylan really means what he says about the government taking crime seriously and that Sweden should be a safe country to live and work in. And not just Ibrahim Baylan – I think the whole government is behind those words, just as all political parties are behind them. We all believe in the rule of law and believe that law and order should prevail. What we possibly disagree about is how and by what means we best get there. Madam President, I would like The Government states in its response to me that the Government has initiated a dialogue with the Swedish Commerce Federation, that it has developed a national crime prevention programme and that it has implemented a number of criminal measures since 2014. Good, but during the same period, insecurity has increased significantly among entrepreneurs. The effectiveness and, above all, the adequacy of the measures can therefore be discussed. At least entrepreneurs do not feel more secure today than in 2014, nor do they see the future brightly. And my interpellation did not concern what measures the government has taken, but what concrete measures the government intends to take to reduce crime exposure and increase security for Swedish companies. Let me paraphrase a well-known LO election slogan: It is one thing that the Government is proud, but I sincerely hope that he is not satisfied. I ask the question again: what further concrete measures is the government prepared to take to reduce crime exposure and increase security for Swedish entrepreneurs?
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-20	Madam President, I would like I had a similar debate a year and a half ago with the Minister of Justice. The answers were about the same. It was about what the government had the objective of producing proposals – 50 actions – and that one thing after another would come into force. For example, the criminal action decided in July 2017 and the possibility of camera surveillance have now been introduced. It is a serious situation when entrepreneurs have to spend more and more of their company's money defending themselves against attacks in different ways. It may be that you have to set up fences, that you are exposed to shop thefts so that you can't keep the store – a problem especially in rural areas that is a bit remote – that you have to get watchdogs or whatever it may be. There are very many different measures that cost. 55 billion was set as the cost of keeping this going. Nevertheless, it has been a year and a half, and the cost has hardly decreased, but should have increased instead. As David has already pointed out, companies are being hit very hard by this. We're all supposed to live in communities. There are also industries that are hard hit by the establishment of criminal gangs that may not allow companies to operate. That puts jobs and jobs at risk. This is very serious, and I think the Minister is also taking the seriousness of it. But I call for efficiency and action to be taken forward.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-25	Madam President, I would like Nor do I doubt the commitment of Members to this issue. I think you should take this worry very seriously. Both the threat of crime and the victimisation of crime are a violation of one as a person and, in this case, also a financial burden on the company. That is why we need to take it seriously and take action. But it is also important, Madam President, that these measures are based on a real reality, that they are based on facts. When we get this type of investigation or this type of measurement, we go through them thoroughly. In this case, reference is made to a measurement by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. 20 000 companies have been contacted. 12% of them have responded. When the response rate is so low, it may be suspected that it is primarily those who have been affected by this response. Of course, these concerns should be taken very seriously. It is against this background, Madam President, that we have worked with and continue to work to ensure that there are more police workers in our country. The goal is to hire 10,000 more police officers by 2024. It is not enough to tighten laws – we have tightened up about fifty – unless the crimes are also prosecuted. It is a question of having police officers and police employees who are responsible for investigating and who ensure that criminal suspects can be prosecuted with prosecutors and courts. We have also introduced – and I think we agree that this is effective, especially in shopping centres – the possibility of setting up security cameras. We know that where they have come up, this has led to a calmer situation and a safer environment for entrepreneurs too. We have ensured that we have further opportunities to prosecute those who commit these crimes. As I said, it's about fifty years of law enforcement. In addition, in the spring we will be presenting a proposal that could prohibit access to a store, for example, for persons who have committed crimes there. Madam President, I would like I think we should take this seriously and continue to work on it, but not on the basis that there are more crimes today than, for example, ten years ago, because it does not. You can look at the statistics and compare with 2019– I'll say that there are still preliminary statistics, but there's still a pretty clear difference. For example, one can take such a serious crime as the robbery of a store with firearms. Ten years ago, in 2010, 345 such crimes were reported in our country. Last year it was preliminary 114. There are 114 too many, but it is still a marked decrease compared to ten years ago. I could mention more crimes where we have this development, but I think we all understand what the growing concern is basically about. It is about the fact that we, Madam President, have seen far too many serious crimes in our streets in recent years. We've seen blasts. We have seen gang arrangements that have meant that people have lost their lives. Of course it worries me as a citizen, but I also think it worries our entrepreneurs. It is against this background that the government will continue to strengthen the police's ability to prosecute crimes and to tighten the penalties so that those who go there do so properly. But it is also about the possibility of preventing crime, so that we do not have to be involved in this. Some are about guarding. Other things are about social work, so that people, often young men, find a different way in life than crime.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-34	Madam President, I would like I'm listening to the answer. The only concrete thing I hear, as is said to be done in the spring, is a ban on access in shops. That's good. It is an unreasonable situation for traders and staff one day to be subjected to theft, perhaps even robbery, and for the next to see the same perpetrators enter the store without any intervention. However, if the ban on access is one of the few concrete measures that the government intends to present in the near future, it is quite illustrative of how the government is acting on this issue, Madam President. The Parliament took a decision on an announcement of a ban on access already in March 2017 – that was three years ago. Then the Social Democrats and the Green Party reserved against it. Just over a year ago, an investigation was presented on access bans, but since then nothing concrete has actually happened. In an interpellation debate with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson last September, I asked a question about when a sharp bill could come. At the time, the Minister of Justice was positive and replied that the question was a high priority. But a month later, in October, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven saw the idea instead in an interview with TT. Then a concrete proposal felt very far away. The day before Christmas there was new news again. Then the Attorney General put his foot down and said he was going to propose a change of law. That's a good thing. But it was two and a half months ago, Madam President, and we still have no sharp bill. Now, in this debate, the Minister for Economic Affairs says that proposals only wait later this spring. Then remember that it is under threat that the Riksdag otherwise chooses to enforce sharp legislation on its own. Madam President, I would like The second point raised by the Government in its reply is that we see a reduction in certain reported offences against companies. That should be good news. It is until, as I said, we look a little more closely into the statistics. First of all: One of the things that the Swedish Commerce Federation warns about in its security report is that the propensity to report among criminal companies is low and on the way down. More than half of those who have been victims of theft respond that they have not reported. Two out of five people who have been subjected to threats or violence and almost every tenth who have been subjected to burglary do not report either. Then you can talk about store robbery. It can be said that the reduction in the number of robberies is essentially about technological development. Ten years ago, a very large part of the trade was cash-based. Today, the use of digital money is largely limited to digital means of payment. At the same time, traders have invested large amounts of money in safes and various security systems that simply prevent staff from accessing theft-seeking goods and are therefore not robbed of them. Most seriously, it is to look at the statistics on how entrepreneurs actually view the crime exposure, which is the background to this interpellation debate. I feel that the Minister is not really taking it seriously. I do not doubt him when he says that he takes the situation seriously. But I'm surprised when you say you don't really believe in the background. The government may see a light on the horizon, but the entrepreneurs don't actually. That is what I am trying to point out here. Ultimately, this risks hitting growth and employment across society.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-43	Madam President, I would like I was going to mention what David Josefsson was talking about, namely that this is not really being taken seriously. The Minister refers to a 12% response rate. That's the answer I got from time to time. David Josefsson must have a different amount, or it is even lower. I feel that there is a disillusionment that you do not get anywhere with the questions. You're tearing your life apart to make it work. Then I wonder: how does the government deal with this? Is that a dark number? What about crime in the country? We're all out visiting the companies. I was in a store in Borlänge, in an area that the Swedish Commerce Federation lifts up as one of the toughest and most affected. I have since continued to other Swedish municipalities and been out listening. When you talk to those concerned, you hear that this is a huge problem. What does the response rate say, and what does it really look like when you ask? There is a lot of dejection that means that you don't report. It's a very dangerous way forward. Jobs, growth and everything must work.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-46	Madam President, I would like We are in complete agreement on this. It has to work. But the measures taken must also be based on facts, research and proven experience. Just starting from anecdotal events, as Members are doing now, I think is dangerous. They can sometimes be an expression of a larger trend. The greater trend in this context is that there is concern among entrepreneurs in our society about the increase in crime, and I believe that this is very closely linked to some of the serious crime that we have seen in recent years and which we should not only take seriously but should also combat with all the means of society. The political means are about ensuring that there are more police officers and police employees so that the crimes that take place can be prosecuted. This has happened in recent years, and it will continue to happen this spring, this autumn, next year and the following year. We should certainly not give up on those who believe that there is a success in being able to give up in our society by committing crimes, whether it is stealing or gross crimes in the form of shootings. We will also ensure that the police are given the tools they need to follow up on this. As we heard earlier, we know that although technology has moved forward in shops, for example, it has also moved forward with criminals. We know that more and more encrypted ways of communicating with each other are being used, and so it has been important for the government to have the opportunity to make secret data readings also in the case of encrypted messages. We have introduced about fifty penalties. Not all but most things have started to work, and it is clear that it also has an impact. Take armed robbery, for example. If you are caught today with a weapon on you, it is quite different from what it was, for example, when we had a moderate government in our country. We agree on this today, and that is a good thing. It's a sharp signal to the criminals. Now we're going to finish the work. There are proposals in a 34-point programme that specifically deals with penalties for young people, based on the fact that we have seen the crimes creep down at an age. We will gradually deliver this programme in the form of proposals to the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I can, as the honourable Member now does, surely also have expressed a frustration that the government was not faster when I was in opposition for eight years. Why does it have to take so long? The difference, of course, is that the Riksdag is free to make any decision the Riksdag wants. Parliament is the representative of the people and the highest decision-making body we have in our country. However, the government must comply with the preparation rules contained in the Constitution, for example, with regard to the ban on access that we are talking about. David Josefsson is well aware that we have presented a legislative referral to be dealt with in order before we can deliver a proposal to the Riksdag. That's how it works. Madam President, I would like Of course, we should take the concerns and the crimes seriously, but when we design our policies it must be based on facts and on research and proven experience so that we also do effective things. This brings down crime and, therefore, the fear of crime. Trying to base politics on a feeling can work to score party political points in the moment. But in the long run it can even be dangerous if you do not do the right things to ensure that the entrepreneurs in our country and the people are safer.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-55	Madam President, I would like So we have traders who have to think about how to build a grocery store so that it cannot be framed by a car and employees who cannot move safely and safely on their way to their workplaces, even though the workplace is a common factory in a common industrial area. Key competence chooses not to move here, as media reports about Sweden are dominated by bombings and shootings. Bombs are happening everywhere – from Volvo's staff parking at Hisingen to the gate in ordinary residential buildings or as tonight, towards a café in Vasastan here in Stockholm. You could call it anecdotes. Or you can choose to realise that the situation is actually serious and that strong action is needed to break the spiral of violence and restore confidence in the rule of law. For me, as a moderate, it is a question of building the police force up forcefully, expanding police training and raising salaries, reassigning police officers who have stopped and complementing them with security guards. It is also about providing the police and traders with tools to facilitate the exchange of information about suspected offenders, to strengthen the Swedish Customs' authority to search for stolen goods taken out of the country and to give the police more tools to work against systematic crime. It is also a question of tightening penalties by abolishing the current form of quantity rebates, introducing a ban on access to shops and making it easier to expel professional criteria. I do not doubt the good intentions of the Government, Madam President, but I call for more concrete measures. Otherwise, insecurity and crime exposure will also hit hard on growth and employment. I'm not the one who's frustrated. I'm the entrepreneur in Sweden. With this, I would like to thank you for a good debate on a very important subject.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-60	Madam President, I would like We shall take it seriously, and we shall fight it with effective means. I understand, of course, that it belongs to the political game between opposition and government to say that it is not done enough, and so the government should say that yes, it does. I'm one of those people who think you can never say we're doing enough. Because society is constantly changing, and as soon as it is thought that we have done it here and now it will work well, new developments are emerging – sometimes new technologies, sometimes innovations in crime – that make it necessary to keep the focus on it. It is against this background that the government has taken more measures than any other government has ever done. I am pleased that David Josefsson points out that we need more people to train as police officers. Now we are training more, far more than when the Moderates led the government. I am pleased when David Josefsson says that we need more tools in the form of data storage, the ability to share information and, not least, the ability to monitor with both guards and cameras. These opportunities are increasing strongly compared to what it was like in the past. Will that be enough? I believe that we must constantly continue to work on this and ensure that we not only catch up on the crime that is taking place today, but also consider how we can prevent tomorrow's crime. What's it gonna look like? We know that changes are taking place there too. Madam President, I would like We take this seriously. This is an area where the government during its five years has had a great focus both on developing new tools and more police officers and on tougher penalties. We will continue to focus on this, for we must never give in to those who believe that there is success in demeaning their fellow human beings. It should never be like that in our society.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-66	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that state companies procure transport that complies with the rules in force. I assume that state-owned companies comply with laws and regulations. In addition, companies with state ownership must act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. For the state as owner, it is of particular importance that state-owned companies work for a healthy and safe working environment as well as good and decent working conditions. It is the starting point of the government's corporate governance and something that the government continuously follows up in dialogue with the state companies. In addition, the Government has decided on 27 February on a new ownership policy for companies with state ownership, which states that the companies must impose labour law requirements on suppliers and subcontractors. As manager of one of Sweden's largest corporate portfolios, we will act with a good example. Having said that, I note that there are reports of unauthorised cabotage, which I take very seriously. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has therefore invited the management of Postnord to a special meeting on the measures taken by the management of the company in terms of order and order in the supply chain.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Ibrahim Baylan! I note in the last paragraph of the reply with pleasure that Postnord is being called to the Ministry of Industry to explain the situation that prevails. We heard in the previous interpellation debate about the problems of crime and how traders experience their situation. If you are going to develop the reasoning a little about illegal cabotage traffic and the problem surrounding it, crime can take different forms and look different. I have been struggling for several years with a problem that Sweden's hauliers have experienced, and that is the illegal cabotage traffic. It is a form of criminal activity that destroys serious transport companies and not only Swedish ones but also foreign ones. These activities are often governed by criminal networks operating on the roads. The companies that use this type of transport indirectly sponsor criminal activities as they support the networks with money. A criminal in the traditional sense has a mask for his face – you think of the Bear League in Ankeborg. There are so many in their imaginations see criminals, but criminals today have taken another form. They are usually well-dressed and eloquent and in the fine salons, but they have an underlying agenda. It is a huge concern, and here you have to put in all the resources available to tackle crime. Therefore, it becomes even more remarkable when the State is an operator that actually uses that type of activity. It is not that long ago that we stood here and debated the issue. Then the Government said that it was important for the state to act exemplaryly in the business and not use rogue companies. I am absolutely convinced that the Government has the will to get to the issue, but at the same time it becomes contradictory when, just a week after the debate, one reads a newspaper article showing that Postnord is once again using companies that do not comply with the rules. In this way, the state is involved in funding criminal activities. I am not saying that Postnord is criminal, but it uses companies that are largely controlled by criminal networks. Since they do not clean at their supplier's level, this type of activity occurs in principle in the courtyard. I sincerely hope that the meeting that will take place at the Ministry of Industry will also lead to a clear improvement in Postnord's procurement of transport.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-76	Madam President, I would like Yes, we will set an example. Crime is the ultimate expression of something that is not a good example but a bad example. Nowadays it is unfortunately not Ankeborg we are talking about, but it is sometimes a matter of advanced crime. It transcends national borders, and it means trying to make and not sticking to the laws, rules and conditions of our employees – what we want in our country. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that we are not only conducting a dialogue with state-owned companies to set an example, but have now also decided to tighten the regulatory framework in the form of state ownership policy. In the next step, the state as owner will push at the general meetings that this also goes into the articles of association. It is not voluntary work. Not that I doubt the will or intent of Postnord or of the other state-owned companies, but it will be further clarified. It is not just a crime issue – it is of course serious – but it should also be the general conditions for the procurement of goods and services both by suppliers and further down the subcontracting chain. There have also been problems in the past. Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell is very committed to the issues. I share the view that it is a matter of constant vigilance. I said in the previous debate that although one feels at a certain time that one is in control and that things are going well, it is important to follow up on this. It is against this background that we have conducted and continue to maintain a continuous dialogue with the state companies and Postnord – there have been problems here – and in cases where it does not work, it simply procures new ones. It cannot be that with our tax funds or with our joint ownership in the state-owned companies we contribute to crime or to Swedish employees being subjected to unfair conditions. There is no doubt about this. I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus. To underline this further, two weeks ago, on 27 February, the government further tightened its ownership policy. Now this will also be included in the articles of association and will be included in the general meetings so that it is clear in terms of law and crime and in terms of acting fair, i.e. that the procurement in the state companies will contribute to employees in Sweden having collective agreements or collective agreements. We're not supposed to contribute to unfair competition.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-80	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The last sentence was very important, namely that you should lead by example. The state has an extremely important role to play, namely to set an example. If the state fails to comply with the rules and does not have consequences in criminal matters, it gives the green light to others who are slowing down the rules. This is an extremely serious development. What happened shortly after the previous interpellation debate was that the police arranged a special week in Helsingborg. You know that the traffic police in Helsingborg are extremely effective in getting to those who cheat in the transport industry. During this week, eleven unauthorized cabotage operations were carried out. This is quite a lot considering that there are not many officials out on the road working and that it takes a long time to report a case. I will read what was said in a newspaper article in connection with the week, which led me to write the interpellation that we are debating at the moment: and During one of the traffic police's training efforts, four traffic police officers and as many car inspectors had mobilised themselves at Flåssmyr's checkpoint(E4) at Skåne's Fagerhult. Early in the morning, a trucker had been caught driving unauthorized cabotage. A couple of hours later, it was time again when one of Postnord's combinations rolls into the arena. ..................................................... It was this article that made me write the interpellation. During that week, eleven unauthorized cabotage were found. The article goes on to say that the day began when one of the very first combinations that were waved in was found to be driving unauthorized cabotage. The tractor is based in Estonia. A few hours later, it was time for the next one. The blue chapel behind the Romanian tractor carries a white, well-known logo – Postnord. ..................................................... It's serious when Postnord's logo– it's our joint company; the state is the owner– figures in such activities. It bothers me a lot. I myself have been on roads for 12 years and have been controlling professional traffic, and I have seen all the variants of breaking the rules. When eight people catch eleven unauthorised cabotage during a week, including one of the state's companies, they understand the scale of the activity. The government is talking about increased resources for the police. That's absolutely right. And you have to get more staff on the way. Whatever the case, the criminal activity has its roots in moving itself or goods out on the road. In order to create confusion in the activities of criminals, there must be officials on the road who are actively and intensively working to limit the leeway for the criminals. They have grown uninhibited in the transport industry in recent years. That is why we see this extent of unauthorised cabotage. There are other things in this; weapons, drugs, and stolen goods are smuggled into and out of the country. There is much branching into the business, and it is a pity that the state has been an actor who has supported that business.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-91	Madam President, I would like I am also disturbed when I read about such things. The first thing I do when I read about it is find out if it happened. If it's a violation of the law, we have a special order for it. It is to be investigated by the police, and if it is of the nature that it is to be prosecuted, there is a special order for it. When it is a state-owned company that – without purpose but nevertheless – ends up in a situation where it contributes to a crime or, for that matter, contributes to the deterioration of Swedish employees' conditions, then I am not only disturbed. I also get energy to try to get a different order in this by ensuring that the regulatory framework is clear and that expectations of what our joint ventures should do are clear. If it does happen – none of us are perfect; it can happen anyway – I think it's important to keep your eyes on it all the time and not to think that now we've taken all the steps, now nothing else will ever happen, but be on it like a hawk. Yes, I am also disturbed when I read about such things. After all, Madam President, in addition to state transport, this is an industry that we know has had many problems. It has not been sufficiently regulated because it takes place across national borders, and it is mainly regulated by an EU regulatory framework that has not been good enough. It is against this background that my colleague, Tomas Eneroth, has pushed for stronger rules. It is against this background that we have not contented ourselves with only stronger rules, but also developed tools for different types of fines and the possibility of bumping cars so that one cannot ignore the penalty fee and continue. We have ensured that another 400 police and car inspectors have been trained to improve controls on these heavy-duty vehicles. A clear regulatory framework is therefore needed, and that is still not good enough. That is why the government is fighting for us to have clear rules within the European Union and here at home and tools to prosecute such things. We will have police officers to catch those who engage in the organised crime that Thomas Morell is talking about. In addition, Madam President, there should never be any doubt. Even if it is revealed that not everyone is doing well, there should never be any doubt as to what expectations we have of our joint ventures, whether they are wholly owned or partly owned as in the case of Postnord with the Danish State. I think that compliance with laws and rules is a minimum; it doesn't even have to be said. In addition, it will contribute to fair conditions and fair competition so that those who win a procurement as suppliers or subcontractors will do so because they are good, not because they run around laws or around employees' conditions in terms of wages and working hours and more. That's not how it's supposed to be. There have been such examples. We must continue to work hard to get rid of this in our country.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-99	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is important that state companies set an example. But in the way it has been and we have been able to read about in the newspapers, some serious business owner has lost a transport assignment there because Postnord has chosen to buy the transports from someone else, less well-calculated transporter. That is what is at the heart of the discussion we have today – that the state has been actively involved and, so to speak, knocked away the legs of those who are serious entrepreneurs. I sincerely hope that we will see a change in the future. I am basing myself on the last paragraph of the Government's response – that the Ministry of Enterprise has called Postnord's leadership for a conversation. I hope that we will not have to read articles about Postnord and also other state-owned companies in these contexts. I hope that they comply with laws and regulations and ensure that it is the nicest transport they procure. It is very important because, as I said, the state is an example and must live up to this. Otherwise, it gives the go-ahead for less well-calculated operators. I would therefore like to thank you for a good debate.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-102	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Thomas Morell for a good discussion on an urgent issue, namely how to ensure that we use our joint ventures so that they set an example not only in their own activities but also when they procure from suppliers and subcontractors. The government has quite recently presented a proposal and made a decision to tighten the regulatory framework further. This is not just about something as obvious as compliance with laws and regulations, but also about making demands on those you procure because they treat their employees fairly through collective agreements or collective agreements. This, Madam President, is because we are unfortunately living at a time when some are trying to get, economically and sometimes even criminally. That is something we will certainly pursue by having clear laws and more police officers who will allow those who try to get there and may also be prosecuted and punished. In addition, Madam President, we shall have companies that contribute to the Swedish conditions and salaries in our country and are fair to all employees. These companies shall not, through procurement, contribute to the breach of that principle. I'll never buy that as Minister of Enterprise. Whether it's about Postnord or any other company, I will continue to do that work.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-106	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me if I believe that it will now be required tax money to finance the change in Postnord, if there will be a need for ownership support to avoid bankruptcy and if so, how much money and how I intend to give Postnord reasonable conditions to manage its finances. Post n word is on a journey of change and is far from the goal. As owners, we have been clear that the company needs to enjoy public confidence and that the whole of Sweden should be able to rely on delivery from Post n word. It is known that Post n vord had problems since the merger of Post Danmark A/ S and Posten AB and that there is a need for a change due to the impact of digitalisation on the postal market. I note that the EU Postal Directive allows public funding of universal postal services. In the light of developments in the postal market and in order to ensure a good and sustainable postal service throughout the country, the Government intends to set up an investigation in the postal sector. We intend to come back with the details as soon as the directives are ready.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-110	Madam President, I would like People and companies should be able to trust that we have a working post in Sweden. Postnord has a number of problems. One is falling letters volumes. Another problem is the quality of the distribution. Much of this is due to a desired trend towards the digitisation of society that has been going on for a long time with falling letters volumes as a result. Just before Christmas, Postnord witnessed serious problems in his business and finances. The Committee on Economic Affairs then chose to call the company in question and the two postal ministers Ibrahim Baylan and Anders Ygeman to the committee. There were some clear messages there. Mailnord – I come back to that – was quite clear about what they mean is required in the form of a new postal law or regulation and perhaps financial contributions from taxpayers. This was not so clear, I think, from the responsible ministers. That is why I have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs three questions: will it take tax money to finance the transformation in the company? Will it take tax money for shareholder support? What regulatory changes must be made? I note, Madam President, that Ibrahim Baylan has answered the three questions I asked with merit, but perhaps not. The starting point here is that we should have a functioning postal business. We can look back a few years and note that Postnord had problems even then. A lot happened after the Swedish and Danish posts merged about ten years ago. Digitisation came to go much faster than what was soon said every assessor then thought, and one could not keep up with the type of conversion required in the company. This made it necessary to make substantial contributions during the previous parliamentary term. From the Moderates we were clear that we saw the ownership addition in 2017 as just a one-off event. We were clear that the company in question, Postnord, had to do its homework in terms of conversion and development, so that you didn't have to go to the owner again. We were also clear that the government had to assume its responsibility to manage the company better. This was 2017, and here we are again. Postnord is therefore not bankrupt, and I think you should be clear about saying that. On the other hand, they face major challenges in terms of both business and economy. They have been clear both to the media and to the Industry Committee that it will take money to finance their transformation, which they cannot manage on their own. They do not exclude that shareholder support may be required. D e is clear that there is a need to develop the rules that exist, i.e. postal law and postal regulation, and they believe that they need better conditions. All of this is in order for companies and households to have a functioning postal business that we can trust. That is why, Madam President, I have chosen to put a number of questions to the Government. The first is about paying for a change. In his reply, the Minister for Economic Affairs notes that the EU says that it can pay for the conversion, and that is the case. But now the question was: Does the government consider that there is a need to use tax money to finance the conversion in Postnord, and if so, how much? The second question concerns a shareholder's contribution. I note that I have not yet had the question answered, so I ask it again: does Ibrahim Baylan consider that there may be grounds for a new shareholder's contribution in the same way as a few years ago? On the last question, Ibrahim Baylan in his reply suggests that a postal inquiry will be set up. I think that is wise, but then the question comes: what kind of questions does the government think you need to look at? Which parts of the postal law and the postal regulation, such as how close the mail should be distributed, the postal question and the like, does the government believe need to be investigated and changed in order for Postnord to have other conditions and not for taxpayers to have to open their wallet again?
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-124	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna look back in time. On 12 December 2017, the Committee on Economic Affairs debated capital injections to Postnord with the following decisions. The company concluded that much larger conversions would have to take place. They would have said that already in the summer of the same year, if not before. The Moderates said yes to the ownership. As Lars Helmered said, that's not how you looked at it in the future, but then things started to happen. Digitalisation was well known in Denmark and Sweden. We knew it would continue, and it has. A number of questions have now been asked about what tax resources will be needed and how the government will address this issue. The answer from the Government is that you intend to set up an investigation, and Lars Helmered has asked what questions you should ask it. My question is: why did they not do this earlier because they knew which route was already included when we took the decision in December 2017 on capital injection?
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-129	Madam President, I would like Members would like to look back to 2017, and I understand that. The truth is, Madam President, that over the last decade the Swedish part of Postnord has basically made a profit. A surplus has been delivered in the Swedish part. Just as Lars Helmered said here, some quality problems have been drawn. Part of the package we talked about in 2017 was also about having to work with quality problems and public confidence. That work is ongoing. Better achievement of the objectives is achieved, but public confidence needs to continue to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like If you now have a situation where the Swedish post has in principle regularly joined the plus, why are we in the situation that we are? Here the two moderate Members avoid talking about what is, after all, the elephant in the room, namely the merger with the Danish post. That this was a mistake was a discussion that we had already in 2008. I was then myself chairman of the Transport Committee in Parliament and wrote an opinion in which we on the part of the Social Democrats advised against doing so. But they went on despite the fears that existed, not only from politics but also from the National Audit Office and others who thought this was a bad idea. It's been quite a challenge for this company. Yes, the foundation is digitalisation, and you could see that already in 2008. Digitalisation did not start in 2017, but it still continued to carry out a business that has been very burdensome for this company. It was against this background that in 2017 there was a renegotiation between the Swedish and Danish States and between the Swedish and Danish Governments to provide the company with conditions other than those originally negotiated between the moderated government and the then Danish government. This included both capital injections and capital injections to strengthen the company. That's how you've been working. Digitalization continues, and we see an accelerating case in letters volumes. At the same time, the other side of digitalisation is an increased number of packages due to e-commerce and commercial trade. There are therefore, as it is said, both swings and carousels in this. How do we ensure that this company can cope with these tasks? Madam President, I would like For the government, there is a very important purpose in this work, and that is to ensure that the postal service works throughout our country. It is a challenge when the volume of letters falls very powerfully. From a peak year of 4 billion consignments, we are now down below 2 billion, and a great deal suggests that they will continue to decline. Nevertheless, we must find a way to do this. Against this background, we are now setting up an investigation to modernise our postal law so that it is adapted to the time we live in. Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we do this together, because this will apply for a very long time. If the Moderates or other parties have views, they are happy to give them their views. Ownership supplements are not currently valid, because this was done in 2017. I know that this discussion is prompted by headlines in newspapers, but they are, of course, about reports that were made years ago. Things are different today.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-140	Madam President, I would like There are three main issues to be discussed today. One is about how to give Postnord the right conditions when it comes to postal law and the like. There Ibrahim Baylan tells us that the government will set up a postal investigation, as has been said before. I agree that it is wise to do so. I would like to see a clearer line on the part of the government in terms of what it intends to do. Is there supposed to be a bi-day or one-third-day delivery? How should you work with postage issues and a lot of other things? These are issues that can give a focus so that not only Postnord but also competitors know what will apply in the future. Ibrahim Baylan mentions both packages and letters, and it is true that the parcel market is increasing, not least because e-commerce is now increasing. But there is a fundamental difference, and that is that the delivery of letters is a social mission or, if you like, a monopoly that involves a particular social or political responsibility for this that is not in the parcel market. I think Postnord has made a good trip. I think that many people who have looked at their phones and seen the app that they have developed see that it is a well-functioning service that facilitates communication between them and me as a customer to get the package home, for example. A larger deal was made about ten years ago. I have been clear before and can be clear again: Seen in the rear-view mirror, it was of course an extremely bad deal. If you knew then what you know now, you wouldn't have followed through on it. I wasn't a part of the deal at the time and I wasn't involved in the deal as such. But the truth is that it was carried out, and we stand where we stand. In 2017, Postnord was on the brink of ruin. It landed in a special contribution from the Danish taxpayer into the post to finance the conversion but also in the fact that taxpayers in Denmark and Sweden made a contribution to ownership. An important part of this is the settlement between Sweden and Denmark, which means that if we have problems with Swedish operations, it is Swedish taxpayers who will have to cough up, just as they had to do in Denmark. The Minister for Enterprise and Postnord may have different views, but Postnord has repeatedly said in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industry and in other ways publicly that it is estimated that it will not be able to do this with its own money but that it will be required support from the owner to pay for the conversion due to digitalisation. In Swedish this means that taxpayers' money will be needed. Hence my question, Madam President: does Ibrahim Baylan share this assessment? From the answer, he doesn't. He thinks it's a newspaper duck. It remains to be seen. However, I sincerely hope that Ibrahim Baylan is right in this. If Ibrahim Baylan is wrong, it could potentially cost Swedish taxpayers tens of or perhaps hundreds of millions of SEK to finance the conversion, if Postnord cannot do it on its own – and Postnord has said that it does not rule out the possibility that ownership support may be required gradually. There was a problem in 2017, and there is a problem now. I sincerely hope that they can be solved, because both companies and people will be able to count on a functioning postal service throughout the country. I believe that this requires regulatory changes gradually, but also that we are prepared to run this company. In 2017, we were clear that it was a one-off event, but sadly, there is a risk that it will not be.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-152	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry says the company has made a tough trip. But that does not answer the question why it did not do exactly what I asked for in my previous speech: that, when the capital injection was made in December 2017, i.e. two years and three months ago, an investigation into the operation of postal services was set up. Nor does it answer the question of what has happened before, what is happening now, and why nothing has happened when you now see how it develops. So my question remains: why was the investigation not set up earlier?
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-154	Madam President, I would like Let me pay tribute to Lars Helmered. I think this is the first time I have heard a representative of the government that carried out the transaction between the Swedish and Danish posts admit that it was a mistake. However, the fact that what we are seeing now is something new is not true. Already then there were these fears, and even then political parties here in the Riksdag, including my own, and the Swedish National Audit Office and other demands that there should be an impact assessment before the deal was made. But the moderate-led government chose to ignore it and made the deal. Many of the economic problems in this company are caused by major deficits in Danish operations. It was against this background that the government, together with the Danish Government, concluded a new agreement in which the Danish State entered in 2017 with SEK 1.8 billion and the Swedish with SEK 400 million to get to the changeover. Madam President, I would like Progress is continuing, and digitalisation will continue at perhaps even higher speeds. Against this background, we need to modernise our postal law. In opposition, one can always ask why it has not happened before. The government is setting up this investigation with a main purpose: to guarantee Sweden's citizens no matter where they live access to a functioning postal service. Modernisation is different in different countries. It can be about procurement or other forms of the community mission that Lars Helmered is talking about to work. That is what we are seeing in terms of the digitalisation we are talking about. Madam President, I would like There will have to be a further transition. While we see that the volume of letters is decreasing, the number of packages and logistics transactions is increasing. How can this company's board of directors and management gradually change the company so that it also stands strong in the future? This work is ongoing, and just as Lars Helmered says, it is taking place with renewed force. I also think that in many respects this is going in the right direction. Why do I dare to say this when we have seen the headlines referred to by Lars Helmered and where there is even a threat of bankruptcy? Well, I dare to after reading Postnord's last financial statements from January 30th. The heading is a strong improvement in earnings during the year, i.e. the economy was significantly better last year than the previous year. Does this mean that all the challenges and problems are solved? No, of course not. In a rapidly changing world and in a rapidly changing society where digitalisation will continue and we may have new services, new products and new competition, we must continue to work to solve these problems. Is there a need for an ownership supplement? No, such a thing is not being discussed today. But in a changing world, no one can say that this applies forever.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-164	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to have this discussion with the Minister for Economic Affairs because both companies and households should be able to count on a functioning postal service. There is a little bit of transport that is bloodstreaming in the economy, and Postnord has had some problems with its business and economy in recent years. There have been discussions about quality and distribution. The company has taken on some of this, but a few months ago there were worrying signals. A postal investigation was carried out a few years ago, but not enough was done to give Postnord and other the right conditions. Some questions have been raised. Will shareholder support be required? Will it take tax money to finance the transformation in the company? Postnord makes the assessment that it will be required, but the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government has a different view. Again: I hope that Ibrahim Baylan is right so that taxpayers in Sweden, unlike the Danish ones, will not have to pay. It should work differently and better. I see a postal law investigation ahead of me, because it would be wise to discuss the law. I would like the Minister for Economic Affairs to be clearer about the direction of the investigation. One can discuss, for example, how often mail should be distributed, environmental requirements and postage. It would be clear against Postnord and also against their competitors. We'll see if the Minister of Finance needs to open his wallet to save Postnord once again. I sincerely hope that we do not land there, because that was the clear promise made in 2017 by Ibrahim Baylan's representatives. I hope it stays that we can still have a functioning postal service. I would like to thank you for this debate.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-171	Madam President, I would like This basically means guaranteeing Sweden's households and companies a well-functioning postal service. This infrastructure must work. For it to be able to do so in the future too, things are likely to be different because society and technology are changing. It is against this background that we set up the postal investigation. Although I am responsible for state ownership, in the case of Postnord the Land, the management itself is not handled at the Ministry of Enterprise, which I think is wise. A postal law applies to all kinds of postal activities, not just Postnord, and therefore it is wise that it is Anders Ygeman who deals with this type of issues. Of course we are conducting this dialogue throughout the government, but I am thinking of the issues relating to what a modernised postal law should look like. I think the division we have in Sweden is rather wise, where the Minister for Economic Affairs is responsible for the state ownership in, for example, Vattenfall, Postnord and LKAB, but where the regulation itself is in the hands of other ministers. In many of these sectors, other companies also operate, and I think it is important for them to have confidence that the minister dealing with regulation is not the same minister who is to deal with the joint ventures. This would risk undermining confidence that the changes that are taking place are not about narrowing or distorting competition. It should all be done in a wise and forward-looking way so that we can guarantee our citizens the post they need. We will ensure that Postnord continues to develop and that we have a modern postal law for the future.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-176	Madam President, I would like Yasmine Posio has asked me whether I believe that settlements favour recipients of aid in other countries and whether I will work towards removing the possibility for OECD-Dac to offset aid. In a world where the number of armed conflicts is increasing and millions of people are on the run, I am pleased that Sweden, through our ambitious aid, has the opportunity to help vulnerable people, both on the ground in low and middle income countries and by offering them a refuge from persecution and oppression in Sweden. According to DAC's legal framework, statements for the reception of refugees and persons in need of protection have been included in the aid since the early 1990s. In 2017, DAC stressed that the costs were considered as humanitarian aid. In addition, DAC noted that donor countries contribute through reception to the economic relief of low and middle income countries, which host most of the world's refugees. So yes, I think it is reasonable to argue that settlements, like other aid, benefit people in low and middle income countries and that the current regulatory framework is satisfactory, especially after the regulatory changes that took place last year. The costs of the aid that we have for reception represent less than 5% of the total aid framework in 2020. They do not rule out in any way that we use the other aid framework, which totals almost SEK 50 billion, to continue to play a leading role in the global work on women's rights and for SRHR, among other things. Sweden's SRHR assistance has also increased in absolute numbers since 2014 and today represents around 7% of total aid.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-180	Madam President, I would like Today's world is marked by deep injustices. The gaps are great between poor and rich countries, between poor and rich people and between women and men. The new report Time to c are from the aid organization Oxfam shows that the world's 2,153 billionaires own more than 60 percent of the world's population. The 22 richest men own more than all women in Africa, as if these men had worked and made more effort than all women in Africa. It's time to crush the myth that rich people are rich because they've worked more. They are rich because the system is rigged for them. There are enough resources to eradicate poverty and give all people a dignified life, but instead of a fair distribution, most of the world's resources still end up with the rich. The 2,000 richest billionaires received SEK 23 billion a day, while the poorest half of their income decreased by SEK 4 billion a day. Through Agenda 2030, Sweden has committed itself to working towards achieving all the global goals. This includes Objective 10, reducing inequality within and between countries. This obliges us to work towards the progressive achievement and maintenance of an income growth higher than the national average of the lowest-income population in our country. It is therefore not only about helping to reduce inequalities in the world but also about taking responsibility for doing so in Sweden. Now it is not part of the GovernmentEriksson task to reduce inequality in Sweden, but the Government is part of a government that clearly turns a blind eye to Objective 10 in Agenda 2030. Instead of working to reduce inequalities, the government has introduced tax cuts that benefit the wealthiest in society and thus contributed to an increase in inequality in Sweden. In the same way it is in foreign policy, when the government puts Swedish companies' exports ahead of human rights. For every dollar that goes to aid, more disappears in tax evasion. Yet the government does not vote for laws that would provide better transparency and prevent this tax evasion. In addition, the Swedish government accepts trade agreements that lead to an increase in inequality between the poor and the rich. Nor does Minister Eriksson have the main responsibility for this. But when it comes to aid, Eriksson is most responsible, and yet accounts of 2.3 billion are made from aid to reception of refugees. Instead, these 2.3 billion could have gone to organisations working to reduce inequalities in the world. Under the current rules, OECD-Dac allows for settlements under certain rules, but the possibility does not mean that it is the right thing to do, especially since the settlements are used as a means of blocking the loss of revenue to public finances, partly because of the abolition of the military tax. In Mrs Eriksson's reply, it sounds like Sweden would not be able to accept refugees if we did not calculate the aid, but we all know that this is not the case. Only the abolished military tax is SEK 6 billion. These EUR 6 billion could have been used to abolish the reception settlements and why not for additional climate aid, which we actually agreed on in the Paris Agenda. No, as Minister Eriksson, to put the calculations against Sweden not accepting refugees at all not holding up if one wants to live up to the commitments in Agenda 2030. Instead, the government is required to work with all available means to eliminate inequality. One way is to remove the tax breaks of the rich and to ensure that 1% of the bni actually go to aid.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-190	Madam President, I would like I am proud to be part of a government – one of really few in the world – which uses 1% of the total income in the country for aid to other parts of the world. It is a great effort that we are making in Sweden, a solidarity act that very few other countries can say that they are even near. I think that one can also be proud of this as a member of the Swedish Parliament. We are making a strong, offensive and important effort, thus influencing the world for the better. With regard to gender equality, which Yasmine Posio refers to, this has perhaps been the top priority in recent years for the Swedish Government. When the Red Green Government took office in 2014, we took the decision to introduce a feminist foreign policy. In recent years, this has permeated the entire foreign administration, all our embassies and the international work of the UN and multilateral organisations in which we operate and are involved in funding in various ways. It's made a big difference in the world. Millions of women have survived because of it. For millions of women, we have been able to prevent unwanted pregnancies and unsafe abortions. It is just one example within the SRHR where this has made a huge difference. I think we can all be proud that the work that we are doing and that we are continuing in this term of office. As far as settlements are concerned, a significant proportion of all aid goes to refugees, to the reception of refugees and to activities which, unfortunately, are growing all over the world. We have over 70 million refugees in the world today, and the costs in this area are increasing every year. It goes to refugees who have been displaced in the Syrian war, to Yemen and to a number of countries in the world. It also goes to Venezuela, which, unfortunately, in recent years has had a history of mismanagement leading to many new refugees. Most of these refugees end up in countries adjacent to the conflicts. A small part of them also come back to Sweden. In the early days when these refugees have arrived in Sweden, we can use aid money for funding. It is not unreasonable that it works that way. As regards the reception of refugees in Sweden or in other countries, I and the government believe that we can do so. However, it is important that there should not be huge sums of money taken from aid either. In recent years, this sum has fallen considerably. And following the changes in the rules that we made last year, we have more control over these expenditures, which makes me feel more confident about this than before.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-194	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are also proud of the goal that 1 percent of the UK should go to aid. But we also want to be able to say that it really does. The abyssed inequalities that we see in the world mainly affect girls and women. The Patriarchate has the effect that girls and women are the biggest losers, not only economically and politically, but also physically. For example, millions of women and girls lack access to contraception. At the same time, 47 000 women and girls are estimated to die each year in connection with unsafe and illegal abortions. As if it is not enough, sexual violence is used as a weapon and a military strategy in wars and armed conflicts. Thus, women and girls pay with their lives and health for the limitations of their right to their body, reproduction and sexuality. In addition, the SRHR restrictions are one of the main obstacles to economic development and the fight against poverty. Without major investment in the SRHR, it will therefore be difficult to make any progress in development policy at all. Allowing women to own their own body is a prerequisite for gaining power over their own life. It is a necessity for both an equal and an equal society in which we distribute power and resources fairly. In order to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030, the issue of SRHR will need to be raised in the development budget as well. In my previous speech, I already highlighted the tax cuts for the rich, who are increasing inequalities and who are partly paid for by counting on aid. But that is not the only thing the government is doing to increase inequality. In addition, we have the cleaning allowance for the rich, who cost Sweden nearly SEK 6 billion. And as if it is not enough that the money for contributions to the rich, who do not want to pay what it actually costs to get the home or the pool cleaned, is taken from Sweden's welfare, it is also taken money from the aid in the form of settlements. I find it very difficult to see how it will be better for women and girls in the world by the government covering up for what is given to the rich by counting off the aid budget. In his reply, Minister Eriksson says that aid to SRHR has increased in actual numbers, and that is quite right. But it's because Bni in Sweden has increased, not because the Government has prioritised SRHR higher and thus increased the proportion. As I said, it has for a long time been just under 7% of aid, and that includes aid to multilateral organisations. This happens despite the fact that the needs now increase as nationalist and right-wing populist forces gain ground and challenge the right to everyone's own sexuality and identity. Just look at Poland, which is investigating a bill banning sex education in school, in Italy, where 70% of gynecologists refuse to perform abortions for so-called conscientious reasons, and in Mexico, where on average ten women are murdered every day. At the same time, we see how the forces that oppose the right to abortion are active in many poor countries and are moving forward their positions. One example is Trumps's decision to reintroduce the so-called gag rule that prevents the United States from financing organizations working for the right to abortion. Before Minister Eriksson answers that the organisations that work with SRHR and receive assistance from Sweden are probably grateful for what they get and that Sweden stands up for SRHR in beautiful speeches, I would still like to remind you of the nearly SEK 12 billion that Sweden spends on benefiting the rich and who instead could have gone to get a society that is for everyone – not just for the richest.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-201	Madam President, I would like According to the OECD-Dac organisation, Sweden is the world leader in the field of feminist foreign policy and gender equality policy at all. We have received a lot of praise from the OECD-Dac. I also think that one can take advantage of the fact that several other countries are now following in the tracks and path that Sweden has mapped out in terms of gender equality. Another interesting thing that I had to experience last year was that the American regime and the President, who are pursuing an active fight against women's equality and the SRHR issues, in the run-up to the meeting in Nairobi that we had last autumn tried to bring together as many countries in the world as possible against this active issue of liberation for women and young girls. But they failed miserably. We had a large majority on our side. Together with the Nordic countries and a majority of the world's countries, we managed to maintain a more radical policy than that which the United States, together with the Vatican State and some other countries, were trying to bring about in the world. The work that Sweden has done here has been very important and has played a major role in the development of this area. The fact that we are increasing support for the SRHR, the sexual rights and freedoms of young women and girls, is something that does not happen automatically. It's an incorrect image that the interpellier has here. This does not happen automatically because we have an increase in GDP, but through decisions every year in all these areas as we make further efforts. It is not a matter of course and easy to continue prioritising this when we see that the number of refugees in the world is increasing and that climate issues are growing and requiring much more resources than before. Today there is fierce competition for this money. It is not that we have a plethora of money that we can distribute anyway. Especially as the Swedish krona has declined in value, this has become a more difficult task than before to prioritise. But I and the Swedish Government continue to give high priority to the issue of gender equality. Now that we are making a democratic effort during this term of office, feminist foreign policy follows with it and is a central and important part of the democratic effort that we are making in terms of aid and foreign policy throughout the world.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-205	Madam President, I would like The fact that we are the leaders does not mean that we should make bills to pay tax relief and cleaning allowances for the rich. It is true that we are good at aid, and we shall continue to be so. But we can be even better. We can refrain from deducting aid in order to close the holes because of the tax cuts that have been made. Additional climate aid is another good example of what we could use the money to which the government spends on tax cuts and RUT subsidies for the rich. Climate aid could, in fact, be provided on an additional basis without the inclusion of refugees. I asked a question about this already a few weeks ago. Minister Eriksson then replied that the environmental organisations that receive Swedish aid are very grateful and happy for that. But I dare to say that they would be even happier if they knew that the money they receive was additional and was not taken from aid that could go towards combating inequality. That was the purpose of the Paris Agenda, that aid to the climate should be additional so that we would not lose momentum in all other necessary aid. Madam President, I would like After this debate, we can see that the fair words of the government and its partners about wanting to live up to Agenda 2030 are not entirely sincere. If they really believed that they wanted to overcome inequality, they would not remove the defence tax and introduce RUT subsidies that lead to an even greater inequality – not only in Sweden but throughout the world. Instead, the government would promote fair and equality-building trade agreements, in order to stop tax evasion and in favour of fairer global tax rules. If the government wanted a society for all, and not just for the rich, they would end up with the distasteful refugee-receiving aid bills, work for the OECD and Dac to revise the rules and ensure that aid went where it is really needed.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-210	Madam President, I would like I can tell Yasmine Posio that we have increased aid considerably since the Paris Agreement came into force. This means that we can make increased efforts in the field of climate change but also in gender equality without drawing it from other things. However, as I said, there are limitations as to how much aid can be. There are also large areas that need to be helped economically, and great needs in the world. Sometimes you can feel a jealousy towards the Left Party, which, like the Vikings in Valhall, has a pig Sarimner who can repeatedly be awakened to a new day and used to finance new things and which never seems to end. I'd love that too.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-212	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether I am prepared to work to make aid conditional on more states than Tanzania and, if so, which ones. He also asks whether I intend the government to support the call to freeze Sweden's aid to the Palestinian Authority via Unrwa and whether I am prepared to make the same demands for democracy and human rights in relation to Palestinian areas as is now being done in relation to Tanzania. The government has acted on the clear decline in democracy and respect for human rights that is taking place in Tanzania. We have decided on a new development cooperation strategy that involves more limited cooperation with the Tanzanian state. At the same time, we are strengthening our cooperation with civil society, multilateral organisations and private actors. In this way, we can make the greatest difference to the most vulnerable and promote the work for greater democracy and human rights in the country. In the event of a negative development of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in one of our partner countries, the starting point is that aid to the state should be reduced. At the same time, it is important to continue to support the forces in the country, wherever they are, which are judged to have the will and ability to contribute to greater democracy and respect for human rights. Sweden should stand up for democratic principles, especially when challenged. The overall objective of Sweden's aid to Palestine is to contribute to a sustainable two-state solution that enables Israel and Palestine to live side by side in peaceful coexistence. The government has explained this many times, but I am happy to repeat it again: Sweden does not give budget support to the Palestinian Authority. Sweden does not provide any assistance to the Palestinian Authority via Unrwa. Nor does Unrwa provide assistance to the Alestinian authority. Unrwa is therefore a UN agency providing humanitarian aid to Palestinian refugees. It is mainly devoted to schooling, health care and emergency relief, and its activities play an important role in the stability of the region. Humanitarian aid is based on humanitarian needs and principles. The Government intends to continue to support U nrwa.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-216	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Development for his reply. The Christian Democrats welcome and have long called for clear demands for democracy and human rights in development cooperation. As far as Tanzania is concerned, it is clear that the regime there does not meet these demands, nor does it care about the criticism that has been made. Peter Eriksson now says that in the event of negative developments in human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the starting point is that aid to the state should be reduced. That sounds excellent, but is that how the government acts, for example, in Palestinian areas? Madam President, I would like It is possible to repeat so many times that Sweden does not give budget support to the Palestinian Authority. That is to answer a question that has not been asked – a claim that has not been made. That is not what we are discussing here, but what we are discussing is that, year after year, the Red Green Government is pumping aid into a system that is dysfunctional and non-democratic. In a country strategy from autumn 2014, the government states that Swedish efforts in Palestinian areas are expected to lead to more transparent and democratically governed public institutions, strengthened freedom of expression and strengthened enjoyment of human rights for women and children. At the same time we know what the reality is, Peter Eriksson : Free elections shine with their absence, and the regime enriches itself at the expense of the people and spreads anti-Semitism. Territorys who murdered civilian Israelis are rewarded – paid – by the Palestinian Authority. Iraq is another example where aid must be conditional. In the area around the Nineves plain, one of the central government of Baghdad is currently sanctioned ethnic cleansing of the indigenous Christian population – Assyrians/Syrians and Chaldeans. Although the Islamic State has been militaryly defeated, the notion that Christians should be regarded as unfaithful is spread. In and around Nineve, what is called a demographic change takes place — Muslim families move in where Christian families have been forced to move out. Without lifting a finger, the leaders of Baghdad are being harassed by Christian groups from the infamous Iran-supported militia force al-Shaabi al-Shaabi. According to the Government's country strategy for Iraq, aid will contribute to a peaceful society, respect for human rights and gender equality. This is not even close to being fulfilled. Madam President, I would like Conditional Swedish aid is necessary, for example in the cases I have just mentioned. In both cases, it is a question of recipients of billions of aid and corrupt political leadership that deliberately defies fundamental demands for democratic development. So, Peter Eriksson – why not make the same demands on Palestinian areas and Iraq as on Tanzania? Why allow serious human rights violations to pass in Palestinian areas and in Iraq when they cannot pass through Tanzania?
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-223	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson makes comparisons that are not quite reasonable to make. First of all, as I see it, we do not impose any conditions, but we make demands. It is not conditional aid in that sense, but we are making demands on the countries – and on the governments of those countries – with which we cooperate. However, aid to an increasing number of countries does not go to the countries but works in the countries. It goes to organisations and people who exist in civil society and who work for democracy and can work despite a sometimes very difficult situation in a shrinking democratic space. Unfortunately, this is a development that we are seeing in many countries; I do not believe that we should believe that aid is capable of reversing developments throughout the world. Unfortunately, with a shrinking democratic space, this is a trend we have seen in many countries in the world. But in countries where developments are going in the wrong direction, we should have less cooperation with the state or government. This is what we have now done in Tanzania, and we will do so in more countries as we change strategies and replace and renew them when they expire. That is what we are doing with regard to the Palestinian Authority. As I said, we do not have direct cooperation with the Palestinian Authority. The large sum is about the UN organisation that operates in the area of health care and schools, not only in the areas over which the Palestinian Authority has some advice, but also in the countries around it, such as Lebanon and Jordan. To a large extent, these are Palestinian refugees and those children who go to school and receive health care in Jordan or Lebanon, for example. I think we need to remember this when we are having this discussion. In addition, we have a very difficult situation – one must realise that – and a very polarised situation in relations between Israel and Palestine, which is perhaps worse than in many other parts of the world. It does not make the situation any easier that there are also areas such as Gaza, over which the Palestinian Authority is not in control. Instead, Hamas is in charge, and 1 million people are in a situation where even we from Sweden do not have full access to the area. It is very difficult to be able to follow this at all and make good evaluations because of the obstacles that Israel is setting up, which restricts access to the area for Swedish authorities, for the Swedish Embassy and for Swedish aid workers. As I began by saying, we are following the same basic idea with regard to Palestine as we do in Tanzania. We will certainly do so also when we soon review aid to Iraq and a number of other countries where we see major problems with shrinking democratic development and reduced access to human rights.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-231	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, what we have just heard does not contribute directly to the clarity of the government's development policy. What the Minister for Development says is that the decline in democracy and human rights in Palestinian areas and in Iraq does not justify any change in Swedish support. At the same time, Peter Eriksson is cutting aid to Tanzania for precisely that reason. This doesn't make any sense. It's inconsistent. It also undermines what Peter Eriksson said in his introductory speech, namely that the starting point is that Swedish support should be reduced in the event of negative development. This is not at all the starting point – in these cases, the starting point is to look the other way with the human rights violations that are going on. The demands for democracy and respect for human rights do not apply today to all recipients of Swedish aid. Madam President, I would like In comparison with other OECD countries, Sweden has generous aid. This year's 1% target leads to a total of nearly SEK 50 billion in the state budget. The Christian Democrats welcome this. At a time of increasing friction, brutal civil war and a historically serious refugee situation, aid at today's level is not only justifiable but necessary. Effective aid contributes to poverty reduction and creates the conditions for peaceful development. In addition, aid policy itself is an important parameter and a guiding factor for maintaining solidarity and human dignity in our society. At the same time, both Peter Eriksson and I know that support for Swedish aid and for the 1% target is failing today. In December, Sida published an opinion poll that showed that the willingness to provide aid is falling and that it is falling sharply – over 37 per cent of respondents thought that the aid should be reduced or abolished completely. The corresponding figure in 2018 was 27 per cent. Madam President, I would like Sweden's aid has an important role to play; there is no doubt about it. However, without clear results in terms of democracy and human rights, it is not possible in the long term to maintain the willingness of the public to provide aid. Unless Swedish taxpayers see that aid goes to the weakest and to the most vulnerable groups, confidence in development policy is undermined. That is what is at stake in this discussion. Tax-funded billion-dollar subsidies, which directly or indirectly contribute to keeping authoritarian regimes under arms, are counterproductive. It damages confidence and reduces the willingness to provide aid. Do we agree on this, Peter Eriksson?
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-238	Madam President, I would like I think we agree on a great deal in this. We seem to agree that the strengthening that the government is now undertaking in terms of aid and the view of democracy is a good thing and that this is the right direction. When the democratic space for people decreases – when there is a decline – we will also reduce cooperation with the state. I think we agree on this, too, but my feeling is that Mr Adaktusson does not really listen fully to what I say, but chooses half the sentences. There is a particular aversion and problem with regard to Palestine and the relationship between Israel and Palestine which makes this discussion, as I see it, wrong. At the same time, I would like to say to Lars Adaktusson that I think he and the Christian Democrats deserve respect for standing up for the 1% target. I think that this is strong and important in the situation that we are now in, where several parties are attacking aid and campaigning against the 1% target and that we should continue to have strong international solidarity work. I think it's very important. I would like to thank Lars Adaktusson for this commitment, which I believe strengthens the work that we are doing on the part of the government and which I am trying to do also in terms of democracy and human rights. I am also very concerned about developments in the Nineves plain in Iraq and in a number of other areas where ethnic groups and religious minorities find themselves in a vulnerable position from different quarters. I think we need to do everything we can to help find a solution and to provide support and assistance to those groups that are currently very vulnerable, both in the Middle East and in other parts of the world where the same or similar things are going on. I do not think that the differences between me and Lars Adaktusson are really so great on this issue. Perhaps there is a particular problem with regard to the question of Palestine and Israel, which one must have some understanding of. This touches on deep feelings and important things, and it affects how you view this development. However, I think that there is a strong problem on the Israeli side too, where today we have a right-wing regime which can say without blinking, that we want to annex whole areas which are currently under the Palestinian Authority and which are under Palestinian control. This can be done without any problems in the international community.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-244	Madam President, I would like Israel has no right-wing regime. Israel is a democracy and has a elected government. With regard to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, I did not think it would have to be said, but I say it anyway: it goes without saying that we should help and support the Palestinian people. It is about people who have suffered and suffered for an extremely long time because of political mismanagement, abuse of power, corruption and everything else. We agree on that, Peter Eriksson. What we do not agree on is this with the importance of making demands and taking action in development policy. Instead of clarity in terms of democratic requirements and respect for human rights, we see that aid policy is inconsistent. The Tanzania case is not the rule; it is an exception. Year after year, authoritarian regimes have been able to oppress their population, imprison oppositionists and restrict freedom of expression while maintaining Swedish aid. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats will not contribute to this. For the sake of the vulnerable, but also for the willingness to provide aid and confidence in Swedish development policy, it is necessary to react and act against those regimes that undermine democracy and human dignity. To not act, Peter Eriksson, is to take on a great responsibility, especially at a time when more and more people are questioning the 1% target and generous Swedish aid. Thank you for the debate.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-248	Madam President, I would like Since I took up this post, we have tightened the regulatory framework. We will not continue as it was before. We will make greater demands in terms of democracy and human rights on the countries and governments with which we cooperate or where we operate. It's different from before. I'm making higher demands. That is why we are discussing the question of Tanzania as an example. I believe that we are moving in this direction also in other countries. However, as far as Palestine and the Palestinian Authority are concerned, I do not fully understand what Lars Adaktusson means. Is it the case that we should withdraw the support we give to the UN organisation so that we must close schools to Palestinian children? Is that what Lars Adaktusson means? Otherwise, I find it very difficult to see what it is that we are going to change. We are not giving aid to the Palestinian Authority. We give it to organisations and people who work for democracy, for greater freedom of expression and for greater opportunities to function in the Palestinian area. I therefore believe that there is not really much difference between what we want and what we think on this issue.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-251	Madam President, I would like Mr Emilsson has asked me whether, in the light of the report by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, I am prepared to fight in the budgetary process to strengthen the funds allocated to the needs of the National Archives and the needs of the archive sector as a whole. He has asked me how I view the lack of access to our collective memory and what measures I intend to take to ensure access to the archives. Mr Emilsson has also asked me whether I will ensure that individual archivists receive recognition as cultural heritage institutions and give them the support they need, and finally how I will ensure that arbitrary elimination is avoided in archives with less access to expert knowledge. The Government has received the Archive Investigation report, and the plan is to prepare it in the usual way with a referral as a basis for any position on the investigation's proposals and assessments. I do not intend to anticipate that process. I am fully informed about the financial situation of the National Archives and have a close dialogue with the Authority about its work in dealing with this challenging situation. However, I would like to make a few comments. I do not share Mr Emilsson's view that there is a lack of access to collective memory. In principle, all archive documents managed by the National Archives are available to those who wish, both on site at a research hall as well as via the digital research hall or on specific request. Accessibility has increased in recent years since the government enabled the subscription fee to the National Archives' digital research hall to be removed in 2018. The availability of other archives is the responsibility of the respective principals. Individual archives are already considered as cultural heritage institutions and can as such receive government grants via the National Archives or via the cultural collaboration model. In addition to its mission to support state and municipal archives, the National Archives also provide advice to individuals on archive issues. The National Archives' guides, including information evaluation and thinning, are published on the website and are free to be used by anyone. The National Archives also offer courses for individual archivists. The archives provide rich historical sources that are open to all. These information resources are used in the exercise of public authority, research and by an interested public. The archives are the hub of the common cultural heritage. My ambition is to provide them with a strong basis, from here to eternity, for a long time to come, on the basis of the Archive Investigation report.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-257	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer. It is all too rarely that we debate our collective memory in this House. The archives contain and, as we all know, form a large part of our collective cultural heritage and the story of Sweden. The National Archives were part of the foundations of the state building when Axel Oxenstierna founded the archive 400 years ago. Through the archives, researchers and generally interested citizens can find out more about their own history, heritage and environment. Access to our archives is an access to some of our accumulated knowledge of what has happened in our country. The archives play an important role in everything from our diplomatic contacts to our understanding of what life was like for an ordinary citizen during other times than our own contemporaries. Not many years ago, I myself was involved with the Society of the Households, the National Heritage Office and the West Heritage at the time in joint piloting farmers, traders and municipalities who wanted to take advantage of corporate archives, individual archives, historical maps and the history of the local area to strengthen the tourism industry or increase awareness of the local community about what is on the site. According to historians who have contacted the Committee on Culture, Education and the Media, access to large amounts of documents that are of interest to historical research has been considerably reduced. The archive inquiry also states, as I stress in the interpellation, that the lack of resources is essentially a greater problem than both organisation and legislation in this area. Does the Minister intend to start a truly fruitful dialogue with the National Archives on the financial situation of the agency? And regardless of that, does the state of affairs which nevertheless clearly states that resources will be pushed forward? Madam President, I would like The activities of the National Archives have, by their very nature, increased costs as the archives grow. At the same time, the archives have been assigned new tasks over the years. Among other things, the Authority did not receive additional funds to deal with the increased responsibility for the supervision of bodies other than public sector bodies. Recently, we have also seen how the National Archives as the central archive authority greatly reduces their staffing. The Swedish democrats were the first to impose new tasks on the agency, to denounce the absurdity of not listing funds at the same time and providing the necessary resources. The situation that has arisen, that is to say, the Authority has an unsustainable financial capacity to carry out its mission, is strange if the government believes that it has acted responsibly. The situation is therefore embarrassing for the government, I would say. For what reasons did the Minister allow the current situation to arise? And why is some management only now that the crisis is a fact? The archive inquiry also points to a number of concrete proposals that could strengthen not least the smaller, individual archive institutions and archivists that we so rarely talk about, through archive centre solutions and by strengthening their status in archive law and the like. In many of these questions, I still lack the answer of the government.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-267	Madam President, I would like I would first like to thank Mr Emilsson here in Parliament for raising the issue of our archives. When I received Arki Arki's report, it was a very thick lunta I got, and it shows how important and relevant it is that we have a functioning archive business in Sweden, that there are many different things to highlight and that this is a very central activity. I think that Aron Emilsson initially very well describes the importance of our common cultural heritage, i.e. the function of archives as our common cultural heritage for research, journalism, citizens, identity and the tourism industry. I thank you for that. I am aware that the National Archives have an economic and challenging situation, and of course I conduct an ongoing and close dialogue with the National Archives on this. There are two parts that I would like to highlight. One part is that we know that the National Archives have structural economic challenges. That was also one of the reasons why the government with an environmental party minister appointed the 2017 Arkiv inquiry, whose report I have received and which we are now preparing. We had that insight and needed to get all the proposals now on the table. It is just as Aron Emilsson says that it puts forward many different types of proposals both for financial reinforcements and on different types of projects and assignments and tightening up of legislation that will give the archives better conditions. In the near future, we will send out the archive inquiry's report for a referral. It is a very solid piece of work that has been done in the investigation, but I look forward also to receiving the views of the consultative bodies, not least on the individual proposals. I look forward to that work. The second part is that the National Archives have a particularly challenging financial situation this year. Parliament ledemo ten Aron Emilsson is well aware that it is due to a planned move of the War Archive which, in my opinion, would have worked well financially if it had not coincided with the so-called landfill judgment from the Administrative Court of Appeal in 2018, which led to the reduction of orders to the operations in Fränsta. This created uncertainty for the Authority to be able to use that business. As a result, the National Archives had to deal with it. From what I understand, this should not be a problem anymore, but it has led to a tough economic situation. I have great confidence in how the National Archives are handling this this year. Here I would like to say that the government has acted. In 2018, we gave the National Archives greater financial space by providing them with an increased grant credit. But the government is aware that this is a challenging economic situation. I am unable to implement any budgetary processes here, but I would like to emphasise once again that archives have an absolutely central role to play in our society. That is why, of course, we must now take all the proposals put forward by the archive inquiry very seriously and take into account the seriousness of the matter.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-275	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Culture is committed to these issues, and so I note with some surprise that she does not choose to comment further on just how it looks at the needs of the country. One part is, as I said, the National Archives as the central archive authority and the national expert authority, but the other part, which also the Archive investigation points to, is the great need to strengthen the status of individual archivists in Sweden. They need both advice and resources to reduce arbitrary thinning and the like. It is easy to interpret the situation that has arisen as either a lack of interest or a removal of the authority's activities from the government's side. The question then is whether these are long-term conscious priorities of the forms of cultural heritage, which we see as being largely ignored and underfunded in debate after debate, or whether you have just been late on the ball. The government has not secured the financial situation of the National Archives at an earlier stage, as could have been done. The opening hours of the National Archives have, as an example, since the turn of the year decreased from 39 hours a week to 30 hours a week. It is a clear signal that there is a deterioration in accessibility that also affects history research and the broad picture of accessibility in total. As the Minister of Culture refers to in the interpellation response, the fee has indeed been removed for access to the digital research room. Of course, this means a certain improvement in accessibility. At the same time, it should be mentioned that only 5% of the analogue material is available in the digital research room. The actual physical availability is therefore still crucial for the overall availability, which is going in the opposite direction. Furthermore, the digital research room needs to be expanded. You know that. It is, once again, a question of resources. Are funds being provided to speed up digitalisation, which is so much larger in itself, so that total digital accessibility increases when physical accessibility is restricted so that one meets the other? So to the question that the archive inquiry shows is the great need at the moment, i.e. resources – crowns and krona. I understand that the budgetary process cannot be fully anticipated, but I still wonder whether the Minister of Culture intends, from his perspective, to include in budgetary negotiations the importance of providing financial resources so that this physical availability can be maintained until most of the analogue material is digitised. We know that it is a comprehensive work that can and will take years, but it can take different periods depending on how strong political and economic incentives are put into action from politics.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-281	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the availability. It is clear that it is regrettable that there was a temporary restriction on opening hours in the research halls. That restriction was introduced in view of the economic situation that has arisen this year because of the circumstances I mentioned in my previous speech. I have received letters from various actors, researchers, and of course I take this situation seriously. I know that the National Archives are dedicated to increasing accessibility. In this situation where you have a limited opening time in the halls, I would like to say that we have competent and skilled staff at the National Archives who are doing their utmost to ensure that it does not mean less service in this financially strained situation. Then I can also come back to the investigation. As I said in my first reply, I do not want to anticipate it, but I can state, just as Mr Emilsson says, that the investigation makes several proposals to promote the accessibility of archive material, for example that it should be stated in the law that the archive authorities and the individual archives that receive state funding should make the archives available and promote their use. That kind of signal becomes very important for the overall work. The investigation also highlights the task of the National Archives to be responsible for a national archive information system. This effort has been budgeted. The study highlights the value of mass digitalisation and also proposes assignments to this effect. When we take the archive investigation further and all of this is summed up, accessibility is of course one of the supporting parts. The purpose of having our archives is not that they should be inaccessible anywhere and not used, but that they should be available for all the reasons that have been highlighted here in the debate. I would also like to say something about the individual archives so that it does not appear to me that I do not see that issue. On the contrary, one of the missions sent to Ark was already in the comitology directive to look at the conditions for individual archives. It was, of course, based on the conviction of the government at the time, which I share 100%, and commitment to the fact that individual archives are absolutely central. It is everything from association archives to company archives – different individual archive institutions that are important precisely for us to get a comprehensive history description. The honourable Member mentioned that it is about archives from all over the country, and it is clear that this perspective is important. These individual archives need reasonable conditions for their activities. I mentioned that the National Archives are already providing guidance, but here the investigation proposes a number of promotion measures and proposes that the importance of individual archives for cultural heritage be clarified: that archives, including individual archives, are part of the cultural heritage. Legislation is being proposed on this subject. I know it was a strong request from the individual archives. I would like to point out again that I see the individual archives as an integral part of our cultural heritage. They are already receiving support through, for example, the cultural cooperation model. But there are of course great points to make this clear in the Archives Act. But as I said, it should be prepared now. It also proposes a number of specific support and initiatives to stimulate the creation of new archival centres. This also applies to solutions for clarifying R iksarkivet's mission to provide advice, support and guidance. Its role as an expert authority is thus even more emphasised. I will say that the archive report has already been sent out for consultation, so that there is no confusion about it. The deadline for replying is 1 June 2020. I look forward to working on that preparation.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-292	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear that the Minister for Culture wants to give the archive authority a strong foundation to stand on and that she sees the individual archivists in the country. I believe that there is a need to signal at national level, not least in terms of signal policy, that they are being seen, that they are being listened to and that they are doing an important cultural act. I leave it unsaid whether this is due to a sharp awakening in the circumstances that are increasingly being portrayed in our central archive authority in particular or to a mature understanding of the importance of the issues or whether it is a real political manoeuvre when we have realised the value of our collective memory for historical research and the public. We know that accessibility controls research, as it is easier to research on the material that is readily available. Important information risks being undetected unless accessibility is safeguarded and increased. At the same time, the government can direct research and accessibility to materials. Of course, it is something foreign in a country like Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with the following: although the respective principals are responsible for the accessibility of the archives institutions, there are not least reasons for education and democracy, which the Minister for Culture himself tends to speak out for, to promote access to all the archives in the country. My final question is: does the Minister intend to take any steps to secure and promote the activities of all the archives institutions in the country and their accessibility? The dice are cast, and that's the government's move.
i-bb568dfcf2b4eaec-296	Madam President, I would like The archives are one of the most important cornerstones of our democracy. They create the conditions for everyone, including research, to take part in our collective memory, both in retrospect and here and now. Whether it is an interest in one's own ancestors or a scientific analysis of a historical development, the archives concern us all. This commitment and an understanding that the archives are of central importance were also reasons why the government appointed the archive inquiry in 2017. We should also remember that digitalisation has led to a great transformation for our archives. It's a big challenge to reset the business, make it available while having the analog business. This is also something that the archive investigation has looked at. The archive investigation has now produced a variety of suggestions. This also applies to financial efforts to strengthen accessibility, highlight the value of and provide better conditions for individual archives and more. I look forward to following the work during the consultation round and to receiving the comments. There has been a strong commitment to the investigation around the country. I am pleased because the archives are so central to the whole country. Mine and the government's commitment to the good and bad of archives are deeply founded. I look forward to working on this.
