i-47f2140eaf963afa-5	Madam President, I would like Today, in the Committee on Defence, we are debating a new military operation in Mali. We have before us a proposal to send Swedish soldiers to one of the world's most unsafe areas to do a job that we know is very dangerous. The Left Party will vote against it. We do not want Swedish troops to be part of what is called Task Force Takuba. With this decision, Sweden will be part of two different military operations in Mali led and managed from two different directions. Last December we took the last decision on Sweden's participation in the UN operation Minusma in Mali. Minusma is an operation governed entirely by the UN and has both a civilian and a military component with the aim of stabilising Mali, ending violence and conflict and developing democracy and civil society. The Left Party is in favour of the UN operation in Mali. We see it as part of Sweden's solidarity-based foreign policy in which we can make a contribution to a more peaceful world. The Left Party's desire is for the UN to have the capacity and ability to carry out all international efforts itself. I myself took part in the journey that the Defence Committee made to Mali last year and took part in the UN's military and civilian work and also see how the Swedish soldiers' everyday life and tasks are there. We in the Left Party would like to express our great thanks to the Swedes who participate in the UN's operation in Mali and to the families who hold the positions at home. But, Madam President, you must be able to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. The Left Party is against Swedish participation in the French task Task Force Takuba. For us in the Left Party, it is important that it is the UN that governs and directs the military efforts for peace in the world, not individual countries or organisations such as NATO or the EU. Task Force Takuba is led by France, a country that has a historical connection to Mali as a former colonial power. The Left Party considers it highly inappropriate for military action to be conducted by individual countries in this way. The Task Force Takuba is a much more offensive effort than the peacekeeping operations led by the UN. The French response is more focused on the fight against armed terrorist groups and, therefore, on a much greater risk to the soldiers we are sending out. All military operations are dangerous, but this is a much more dangerous effort than the efforts that Sweden usually makes. In addition, our assessment is in line with the recent assessment made by Norway where they decided not to participate in Task Force Takuba. Madam President, I would like The bill submitted by the government as a background to the case describes the security situation in Mali. It can be read that Mali is one of the world's poorest countries with a long period of armed conflict and major problems with drug and arms trafficking, kidnappings and terrorism. The security situation in Mali has been commuting back and forth in the past year. There is a peace agreement that is signed, but it has also been broken. Conflicts are based, among other things, on major climate changes in the form of reduced rainfall and large droughts that have forced the population to leave their homes and thus also increased poverty and vulnerability. Here we see how important it is to see climate change and natural disasters as security policy threats and the basis for war and conflict. It is therefore important to see that combating climate change in the world is also a way of working towards a more peaceful world. As a contrast, we live in Sweden in one of the world's most peaceful and richest countries. It is therefore self-evident that Sweden will participate in international efforts to promote peace, democracy and development in the world. We do it in different ways. Above all, we do so with assistance and with various forms of expertise and help to build peaceful democratic societies. But we are also doing so with the military in order to preserve security and protect the civilian population. It is important that we always see the root causes of wars and conflicts and that we actively work internationally to prevent conflicts from arising. Sweden's various forms of aid work are preventive work to avoid war and suffering for the civilian population. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is pleased to see that Sweden's contribution to the UN operation Minusma is being developed instead of us entering into a new effort. Recently, Sweden's contribution to the UN operation was reduced. Our own camp in Timbuktu was laid down, and the soldiers have been moved to another part of the country. Reducing the UN effort while joining a French-led effort in the same country is the wrong way to work and a wrong signal to give. We also find it problematic that the outside world is sending different types of international forces to a war-torn country. It is not easy for the population to distinguish between the different international efforts and their different objectives and objectives. This, too, is an argument that it is the UN that should be responsible for the efforts. We believe it is very important that it is the UN that is behind the military efforts around the world and, above all, the efforts in which Sweden participates. The UN has natural support in international law. We want it to be the UN instead of individual countries, NATO or the EU that are leading the efforts. This is a prerequisite for us in the Left Party to accept Sweden's military participation. In this case, it is a military operation led by an individual country. It is also an offensive and not a peace-keeping operation that poses very great risks. We in the Left Party cannot support that. I therefore support our Amendment No 1, which rejects the bill as a whole and that Sweden should not send soldiers to Task Force Takuba in Mali.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-22	Madam President, I would like Sweden's participation in international crisis management contributes, among other things, to maintaining and strengthening the rule-based world order. To build security, we need to use the full range of our security policy toolbox such as diplomacy, mediation, conflict prevention and confidence building measures as well as national civilian, police and military capabilities. The starting point for Sweden's commitment is that security is best built together with other countries. At a time of increasing cross-border threats and close links between internal and external security, this is more important than perhaps ever before. Sweden's participation in peace-promoting efforts is also important for our national security and for our defence capabilities. Swedish participation in peace-promoting operations shall have a mandate from the Security Council. This is particularly true for peace-enforcement operations in accordance with Chapter VII of the UN Charter. Then the Security Council's mandate shall always be sought. Also in the case of peacekeeping operations in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, clear support from the Security Council is sought. At the same time, international law allows such action to be taken with the consent of the host State and other relevant parties. The committee notes that the major challenge arises in exceptional situations where the Security Council is unable to prevent genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, ethnic cleansing or other widespread abuse, including systematic violence against women and the exploitation or exploitation of children in armed conflicts. The UN Summit in September 2005 stated the responsibility of the international community to jointly prevent serious abuse, genocide and ethnic cleansing. Sweden was one of the driving forces behind this principle agreement on the obligation to protect, what is sometimes called responsibility to protection. There is a clear mandate in international law for the current operation in Mali and for Swedish participation on the basis of the invitation from the Government of Mali to participate in Task Force Takuba and assist Mali's security forces in combating armed terrorist groups on Mali's territory. According to the proposal we have received from the government, the Swedish force may also operate on Niger's territory, provided that there is an invitation from that country's government and that the necessary agreements have been concluded. It is clear from the additional information received by the committee that such an invitation has now also come to the Swedish Government. Madam President, I would like The situation in Mali has continued to deteriorate over the past year, particularly in Central Mali but also in the northern part of the country. The country is characterised by security, political, economic and humanitarian challenges – to say the least. The state presence is limited, not least in northern and central Mali, with far-reaching consequences for people's living conditions. Mali is one of the world's absolutely poorest countries. Among 189 countries on the UNDP human development index, Mali was in place in 2019 184. Both Al-Qaida in Islamic Maghreb and Daish have established themselves in parts of Mali. In Central Mali, several new groups have been formed, some of which have links to Daish. The lack of state presence creates scope for the activities of extremist violent groups. Terrorist attacks occur regularly, targeting both civilian and Malian security forces as well as the international civilian and military presence in the country. Conflicts between populations are increasing in Mali, partly as a result of the struggle for shrinking natural resources. The deteriorating security situation in Mali contributes to instability in the surrounding region. The border area between Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso, the so-called three-border area, is characterised by a weak state presence, which has made it too difficult for extremist groups to exploit local discontent for recruitment. Groups linked to Daish are active in the area. This has led to an increased number of terrorist attacks, including against the civilian population. Part of the area also serves as a transport route for both legal and illegal goods. The UN stabilisation operation in Mali, Minusma, in which Sweden also participates, was established in 2013 with the support of Chapter VII of the UN Charter. The overall objective of the action is to support the implementation of the 2015 Peace Agreement. Sweden has contributed to Minusma since 2015. In the light of the motion for a resolution, I would like to remind you that it is clear from the bill that the French force, Operation Barkhane, has a Security Council mandate to intervene in support of Minusma when the operation is under an imminent serious threat. Minusma in turn supports Operation Barkhane and the regional G5 Sahel Force. The connection between the various operations is important to see. They need each other. You can't bet on either one or the other. The Swedish force contribution to Task Force Takuba is planned to amount to a maximum of 150 people on site in the area of operation, including capabilities for a rapid reaction force including its own helicopter resources and have the ability to protect and guard. The grant will also be able to provide, for example, transport flights and qualified medical care. The grant shall be deployed in the eastern part of Central Mali but shall be prepared to operate throughout the country. The grant is estimated to be in place for approximately 12 months. The government's view is that the deteriorating security conditions mean that there can be a rapid need for reinforcements of the Swedish operation. That assessment shares the committee's view. For this reason, it is important that there is a margin in advance that Parliament has decided on and that can be used for rescue, reinforcement and evacuation operations. Therefore, the decision means that, if necessary, a total of up to 250 soldiers can be sent to this operation, that is to say another 100 in addition to the basic staffing. The committee assumes that the government will inform the committees concerned and Parliament's chambers in connection with the possible use of such a margin. The fact that the Riksdag authorises the Government to send Swedish troops on missions abroad is a decision that entails a significant responsibility. As tragic experience shows, the loss of human life in peace-promoting missions or crisis management operations cannot be ruled out. The committee notes that the Swedish Armed Forces considers the threat level for terrorism and armed violence to be high in the Gao region and in the border area between Mali and Niger, where the operation will be located. At the same time, the Government's proposal emphasises that Swedish units have a high capacity in terms of self-protection, a high level of education and high quality materials. It helps to manage identified risks. It should not be hymn with the fact that this is a dangerous effort that Swedish men and women will participate in. They will be subjected to trials, and they will be exposed to dangers. It also means a great deal of tension for their relatives and friends. I would therefore like to extend a great deal of thanks both to the staff who will participate and to their family and friends, Madam President. You are all involved and personally contribute to international peace and security. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would like to call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be endorsed in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy4.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-37	Madam President, I would like Kenneth G. Forslund says in his speech that we build security together. That is absolutely true. We all agree with that. The biggest thing we have together in these contexts, perhaps in the world as a whole, is the UN. The UN is by far the largest together. This is an operation led by an individual country. It is led by France and not by the United Nations. Is joining France really the right way to go about this, rather than sticking to the work that we have done with quite good results in the UN effort?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-39	Madam President, I would like I do not agree that there is a contradiction here. On the contrary, it is in the way that the UN needs to complement, that countries and other organisations help to take on the responsibility that we need to take jointly in the international community. We must also be honest and say that the UN does not have its own command capacity, no own command resources. The UN is always, in different ways, dependent on the involvement of Member States and organisations to carry out operations. Sometimes they happen in so-called UN-regi, with a blue beret on the staff. In other cases, they take place on the basis of UN mandates or the invitation of the country and are carried out by one or more Member States, as in this case. I don't see any contradiction in that. They complement each other. It is also the case that the two different operations that we will be involved in have to interact with each other, are dependent on each other and need each other.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-42	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Wouldn't it be a better way to put the resources we spend on the French-led operation in the UN effort instead? The UN is definitely its Member States, but these are also the resources that we have and that we now choose to put elsewhere instead of going in and strengthening the effort that exists in Mali. I would also like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund how he sees this: when there are many different efforts in a country, it will be difficult for the population to see the difference. We have seen it in Afghanistan, for example, where there were problems with the fact that there were very many different forces inside at the same time. How does Kenneth G Forslund view this problem?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-45	Madam President, I would like Is it better to gather and put all the resources in the UN? Yeah, you might think so. But will we have time to do so so that we can get there with help in this conflict? I'm not sure about that. I think that in this case we have to say that the best solution at the moment is to act on a number of different tracks. The difference between different actions is absolutely a problem – especially as it has been in Afghanistan, where there have been efforts that had completely different ambitions and missions from the sender than has been decided by the UN. Of course, there should be no difference at all. The people should be able to feel confident about what all the international presence in a country means, namely that it is there to help them and to provide them with good security. This has not always been the case in Afghanistan, for example. There is much to be said about various actions there. If so, let us learn from those mistakes and make sure that we do not repeat them in Mali, and preferably not continue them in Afghanistan.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-48	Madam President, I would like Secretary of Defense! Two weeks ago it was on 29 May, veteran day, now and after some battle in the Riksdag official flag day in Sweden. However, this year's celebrations at Gärdet in Stockholm had to be cancelled – regrettable but understandablely given the pandemic. Otherwise, there is every reason to celebrate the Swedes – women and men – who have served our country abroad. They have worked for peace. They've taken the line for humanity. They have been sent away for the interests of Sweden and our country. There are good reasons for carrying these feelings and this respect that veteran day gives birth to when we are today to debate and decide to send special soldiers off on a difficult mission to Mali. It is about Sweden's contribution to the French-led task Task Force Takuba in Mali. We Moderates support the government's proposal. We are therefore joining forces with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. It is a strength to demonstrate parliamentary breadth in the field of defence and security policy. However, the Moderates do not do this entirely uncritically, Madam President. It concerns, for example, how the coronan affects the operation itself and its implementation and how countries that have promised to participate will fulfil their part. And ultimately it is always a question of resources and adequate equipment, where it is possible to express its disappointment that despite 100 hours of negotiation, the government side did not manage, wanted or had the ability to gather parties behind an agreement when a new defence decision is now to be made by the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like The pandemic that affects Sweden and the world has major consequences, including security policy. Joint exercises are cancelled, and resources are redirected to support national emergency preparedness. At the same time, threats from impact operations are increasing, and the issue of security risks associated with direct investment in strategic sectors is raised by the risk of hostile takeovers. In Europe as well as globally, our established collaborations are challenged. Madam President, I would like In parallel with the changing world situation, several of the security threats that have affected Sweden and the EU in the past decade, with an unstable location in both our eastern and southern neighbourhoods. The French task force Task Force Takuba aims to address the increasing security threat posed by armed terrorist groups in the Sahel region of Africa. It is a central interest in security for Europe. However, the Swedish Armed Forces' international efforts must always be made in relation to national needs. It becomes particularly important at a time when Sweden has to build up its capacity at home. In the current situation, it is also of great importance that the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to support society's crisis preparedness does not deteriorate. These include logistics, maintenance and transport as well as medical resources. And it is in the light of this a new defence decision must be seen. We Moderates will therefore never contribute to a forthcoming under-funded decision. In addition, the health and safety situation of the participating soldiers must not be seriously impaired. A key issue in this context also concerns other countries' contribution of strength in the light of the pandemic, as it is important to bring more people together in the operation. The idea was at an early stage that Norway, for example, would participate, which then turned out not to be relevant. Madam President, I would like It is important to see Swedish participation in the operation as part of our obligations under Article 42(7) of the EU Treaty. Swedish engagement in Mali must be made in relation to security policy cooperation with the EU, within the EU and, in particular, with France. It is solidarity, not neutrality, which now applies. It becomes even more important for Sweden to consider in a time of increased uncertainty. A vital Swedish interest is about our ability to gather a broad European commitment to the security policy threats that affect us here in our part of Europe, in the Baltic Sea region, as well as in the Arctic. Then it is also crucial that we are able to show a strong commitment to what is happening in and south of the Mediterranean, whose development also has a long-term bearing on Sweden. We expect other countries to assist us in the event of a crisis or war, and then we must also be able to assist our friends and allies in the event of a crisis or war for them. Madam President, I would like Different collaborations have consequences. It is therefore particularly important for the government to come back to Parliament in a letter describing Sweden's cooperation with important countries such as the UK, France and Germany – projects such as Joint Expeditionary Force with the UK, the European Intervention Initiative with France and Framework Nations Concept with Germany – in a more comprehensive way. We must see Sweden's commitment to the world as a whole. Our country is participating today through several actions in Mali, including in the framework of the UN stabilisation operation Minusma and the EU training operation EUTM. But we are also one of the biggest donors. The experience of Afghanistan shows here the importance of good coordination between aid and military operations in order to give maximum effect. The development of the region in question is characterised by difficult challenges with major humanitarian consequences. The unstable situation and threats from terrorist groups also affect Sweden's and the EU's security. The absence of peace leads to refugee flows, at a time of major migration challenges. Madam President, I would like Instability, violence, terror, uncontrolled flows of refugees – all these are realities! Then it is right and proper to act and participate. However, there must be no illusions about the complexity of the operation. Mali is in a difficult position. Swedish soldiers in international efforts make an invaluable contribution to security and create the conditions for peace and development in an uncertain world. Madam President, I would like Troops, soldiers and foreigners abroad deserve our support and respect, not only by manifesting in every way the 29th of May as our national veteran's day, but also by making every other day of the year a day of respect for our veterans and by giving the defence in a broad sense sufficient resources. The latter is a coming struggle to conduct here in Parliament. Because of the pandemic, only 55 Members will vote today in this House and therefore support this decision. For my part, I would have preferred to have seen many more to make it clear that it is we in Parliament who are to shoulder responsibility for this effort. I can assure you, Madam President, that I have at least emphasised to the moderate Members the shared responsibility and that we as Members of Parliament are behind this decision. With this, I would also like to express my great respect for those who, during this effort, will serve Sweden's interest in Mali. We are with you in the thought, and want to see you back home in Sweden. You deserve a worthy celebration of veteran day on May 29 next year and all the years thereafter.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-66	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1, which rejects the government proposal. Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Swedish participation in military action to strengthen security in Mali. However, I would like to begin my speech by thanking all those women and men who, through their participation in one of our international efforts, have stood up for peace, freedom and democracy. Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility and contributed staff and equipment to these efforts for over 70 years. Our veterans' hard work, hard work and commitment have laid the foundation for the good reputation that Swedish soldiers have gained internationally. A receipt of this is requests such as the one we are debating today, where our staff and abilities are requested by others. Although we will vote against the bill later today, I would like to thank the soldiers, men and women, who will probably participate in this effort – there seems to be a majority for it – for their contribution. Thank you very much. We're all thinking about you and hoping that everything's going well. Madam President, I would like The bill proposes that the Riksdag admits that the Government will make available a Swedish armed force of a maximum of 250 persons until 31 December 2021 to participate in the Task Force Takuba operation in Mali. The Swedish units will collaborate with French units and in particular be able to support, rescue and strengthen ongoing operations within Task Force Takuba. It will also contribute to the implementation of Task Force Takuba's mandate through existing resources and capabilities. The advantages of participating in Task Force Takuba for the Swedish Armed Forces are, according to the proposal, that participating personnel gain experience in serving in sharp operations, that they achieve increased interoperability and that they gain a better understanding of methods, procedures and working methods. Overall, the operation is estimated to lead to an increased operational and military capability for the Swedish defence. Madam President, I would like It is of course the case, as the government states, that Swedish participation would contribute to building certain abilities in the staffs of the Swedish units. Furthermore, it is right that work in multinational efforts should promote interoperability and understanding of methods, procedures and working methods. Exercises under peace conditions can never be compared to sharp action. We are in complete agreement on this. But the security situation in our own neighbourhood is the worst since the frosty days of the Cold War. In 2019, a united defence committee stated that an armed attack on Sweden cannot now be ruled out. It was also noted that Sweden is not equipped to face such an attack. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that Sweden needs to focus instead on the reconstruction of both military and civil defence, on our own defence capabilities and on the training of new officers over participation in international operations as well as in Mali. It has also been said in many parts of the Swedish Armed Forces that they want a breathing space from international efforts to be able to focus on national defence. In addition to this, we have the ongoing covid-19 pandemic that has so far reaped almost 5 000 Swedish people's lives and demanded the Swedish Armed Forces' support. The Government estimates that the cost of the Swedish contribution in 2020 and 2021 will be approximately 190 million annually. The Swedish democrats believe that this money should instead be used for the reconstruction of the Swedish total defence, not least given that there are now concerns that the government does not intend to live up to the agreement in Försön arsförsförsförsningen's report Värnkraft. In this connection, I would like to stress that the Swedish democrats are still behind what was previously agreed in Förs varsförsningen regarding the armament of the defence. We are prepared to provide the necessary resources beyond 2025. The defence needs long-term planning conditions, and the goal of Sweden's democrats is to gradually increase the defence grant to 2 per cent by 2030. That goal is fixed. Madam President, I would like In this connection, I would once again like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-78	Madam President, I would like How we act here and now affects the world tomorrow. We have agreed on an agenda for this decade, Agenda 2030. To achieve its objectives, broad efforts are needed. Aid is not enough, and it is not enough just for one actor, but for many people to work together. We know that one of the major threats to achieving the 2030 Agenda targets is not only the climate, which we often highlight, but also the lack of security and conflict. The Sahel region, which we are dealing with today, is severely affected by both the climate challenges and the consequences of this, but also by conflicts. Not least in Mali, where extremism, human trafficking and lawlessness reap both hope and human lives, there are no conditions for better development for the people in the country. Unfortunately, this concerns not only Mali but also neighbouring countries. We have seen how the Sahel area has become a piece of sugar for many extreme players, and we see new groups growing. For those of us who have a will to make a difference, it is natural to be present with both aid and military. This is a major aid effort that Sweden is making. The current strategy, 2016–2020, is 1.2 billion. But we know that aid is not enough. We have therefore contributed by standing up for the UN operation Minusma and have been present and have made a big difference both through our expertise and through what we have contributed to the entire UN operation. But we have seen that even the Minusma and the UN operation require a stronger ability. The Security Council has done so too, Madam President, and that is why the Security Council has expressed its support for Operation Ba rkh ane. It is against this background and the picture of the reality of the people in the area that there is every reason for us to put forward the proposal that the government has now put on Parliament's table on Task Force Takuba. In a country where 45% of the population lives below the poverty line of USD 1.25 per day and where many give up hope for the future, we believe that it is important to strengthen when the supporting Operation Barkhane needs reinforcements in order to meet the new challenges in Mali, which are extremely dangerous. We see that the basic conditions and a mandate in international law exist. We have also indicated that we want to see the mandate of Niger under international law, and we have now received that with the invitation that has come. Against this background, we in the Center Party choose to support the Government's proposal but with a specific opinion to which I would refer. It's about the consequences of covid-19. Will everyone be able to come in? Will it be on time? Will this affect the time frame of the operation? We have seen that parts of the community that we thought would be in Task Force Takuba have not been reached when Norway backed out and stepped back – for internal Norwegian reasons, if I understand it correctly. Regardless of this, it is important that others do not leave the stake or that there is a gap, because then our ability or our effort will not be able to make a difference – the difference that we want to secure. That is why it is, of course, important that we have a back-up for our proposals on re-reports so that we can monitor the development of the effort at least once a quarter. In committee and in our report, we assume that we will have a re-report on developments. With that, Madam President, I would like, on behalf of the Center Party, to thank all those, all women and men, who have made efforts in Mali so far. They make contributions, and it is not only the stake in Minusma or Takuba, but also the FBA, Sida and other actors. Many thanks, for you are doing important work for peace and security, for Swedish interests and values and for building opportunities for the people of the Sahel region and Mali! It is a dangerous and challenging undertaking that those who are now entering Task Force Takuba have ahead of them. That is why it is important, Madam President, that we have broad support in this House for this effort. It is with great seriousness that we see this and thank you who want to do this on behalf of Sweden. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-90	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Recently, international media have reported that the Islamic State is escalating the attacks in parts of Iraq and Syria. At the same time, we know that the part of the world where Islamism and jihadism are growing fastest is Africa and the Sahel region. Unfortunately, the consequences of this are obvious. On March 23, this year, nearly 100 soldiers in Chad were murdered in one of the most deadly attacks in the country's history. Islamist Boko Haram was behind this. The next day, the same terrorist organization struck again. In the Nigerian village of Goneri, 70 people were executed. Less than two weeks ago, we saw new Islamic attacks. 27 people were executed in targeted attacks against three villages in central Mali — villages with overall Christian population. A large part of the victims were shot in cold blood. Others were burned alive. Madam President, I would like The international work against jihadist terror is far from over. In West and Central Africa, it is literally a struggle for survival. Extreme groups associated with IS and Al-Qaida operate in the area with the aim of creating chaos and fueling ethnic contradictions. Since 2016, the number of terrorist attacks carried out in Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger has been fivefold. Churches are burned, schools are forced to close and hundreds of thousands of people live in constant terror. In Mali, Islamist violence took the lives of 4 000 people only in 2019. Madam President, I would like When human dignity is crushed and when the future of children and families is shattered, indifference must not be our answer. As Christian Democrats, we are proud of Sweden's international efforts. This applies not least to the stabilisation operation in Mali, Minusma. Mali, as has been said here, is one of the poorest countries in the world, deeply affected by security, political, economic and humanitarian problems. In these very difficult circumstances, Swedish men and women in uniform have made outstanding contributions. Through their courage, competence and ability, they contribute to a more secure existence and a better life. Risking one's own safety to protect vulnerable people is worth the greatest respect and appreciation. Warm thanks to all of you who have participated and will participate in the Swedish operation in Mali! Madam President, I would like For the Christian Democrats, it is obvious that we from the Swedish side should take our share of responsibility in a troubled world – that we actively participate in international efforts that the Swedish Armed Forces consider meaningful. We therefore fully support the proposal to participate with a Swedish armed force in the French-led multinational operation Task Force Takuba. The task of the special unit in question will be to assist Mali's security forces in combating precisely armed terrorist groups in their own country and neighbouring Niger. We are aware that the Swedish contribution to strength is thus facing a complex and dangerous mission. At the same time, we know that the mission is central to the work against international terrorism and that the task ahead has an impact on people's lives and opportunities. We also know that the Swedish soldiers' ability and professionality are internationally acknowledged and appreciated. The Swedish Armed Forces confirms that the task force in Task Force Takuba has the necessary conditions, including protection for its own safety. Madam President, I would like As a member of this Parliament, it feels responsible to be involved in making decisions about Swedish participation in international military operations. But just as important as it is to combat extremism and terror in our country and in our continent, it is that the struggle is conducted in countries far away. Any safe seas for Islamism or jihadism, wherever it is, are by extension a threat to our democracy and to our open society. Through the task in Task Force Takuba, Sweden is actively involved in the international work against terrorism. We are involved in building security so that people in Africa and people in our part of the world can live in security and peace.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-103	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to start by thanking and showing great, deep respect for the men and women who, on behalf of Sweden, participate in international efforts – of course, not least now in Mali. I also address their families and relatives. Madam President, I would like It is a moral duty for us humans to help others. If you come from a democracy and yourself live in peace and freedom, you have a duty to stand up for other people in the world. It has a duty to be available when human rights are violated and when people are oppressed in wars and conflicts or for other reasons, and that is exactly how it is in Mali. It is a breeding ground for international terrorism, Madam President. The population is subjected to systematic violence. It is war and poverty, and it is ethnic contradictions that are fueled by escalating climate change. Madam President, I would like If this is not a real feminist foreign policy, what is it? To ensure that Sweden takes its responsibility against the violence and oppression that, in fact, quite often affects women hardest is to be a feminist for real, and I am proud that we will do our bit to protect human rights in this part of the world too. In the debate today, in the debate on this in the media and on other occasions, it has been said that there are problems with the effort. And that is true, Madam President; it is not easy to stand up for such a task. It's a difficult effort. However, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to some of the allegations that have been made. The first is that you should only be involved in UN efforts and not contribute to Task Force Takuba. But, Madam President, that is exactly what you are doing – you are contributing to the UN effort by standing up in Task Force Takuba. In fact, the UN operation depends entirely on the implementation of this too. It cannot be said with credibility that you are in favour of the UN operation without also being in favour of and taking responsibility in Task Force Takuba, Madam President. That is not possible, because then the UN operation cannot operate in the way it needs to be able to operate. Madam President, I would like Another thing that has been said is that we must prioritise protecting ourselves here at home in Sweden and not care about the rest of the world. It is said that we are in an uneasy situation and cannot afford to stand up for others in the world. It is clear that we must protect ourselves here in Sweden, Madam President, but we are also doing so by participating in efforts abroad. When we do this we strengthen our defence skills, because we get training, we get experience and we bring with us things that we can use even here at home. We need to work together with other countries and strengthen our relations. There is no longer anyone who believes that we in Sweden alone would manage in a serious crisis? We only do that together with others, and then you have to be there for others, work with others, get to know others and create interoperability. We must ensure that terrorism is combated in other countries so that it does not spread here. Setting up in Task Force Takuba is also protecting ourselves. Madam President, I would like It has been said that the situation in Mali is unstable and that it is dangerous. This has been put forward as a reason against the operation, but that is, of course, the main reason for the operation. It would be completely absurd to only be for military operations abroad if it were safe. That's exactly why we're supposed to be there because it's not safe. It has been said that it is dangerous and that we should therefore not send Swedish soldiers there, Madam President. But it is the Swedish soldiers we are going to send there, those who are specially trained and specially equipped, who actually have the ability to face the extremely dangerous threats that exist in Mali. That's why our efforts are needed. Madam President, I would like If you think that we should create security here at home in Sweden, if you think that the situation in Mali is uncertain and if you think it is dangerous to send Swedish soldiers there, you should stand up for this effort. If you think it is important with the UN and if you think that the UN's efforts are important, you should stand up for this effort. One last thing that has been put forward, Madam President, and which is perhaps the one that provokes me most, is that it is expensive. I've heard people say this bet is expensive. In the bill you can read that it is about this 190 million SEK, and it has probably been discussed back and forth in different contexts what it means. For me, it is not expensive in this context. For me, it is not expensive with SEK 190 million to protect human rights – to ensure that ethnic conflicts, international terrorism and systematic violence do not gain a stronger foothold. For me, there is quite a bit of money in this context. For me, it would be strange if we spent year after year and crown after crown on training our Swedish soldiers and making sure that they are equipped for this type of effort – and then did not pay in this context the fairly marginal cost of 190 million for them to actually use the experience and knowledge and resources that the operation requires. It's bizarre. I shall make a comparison, Madam President, which I hope no one finds too offensive. Imagine the idea that you spend a number of years training as a chef – you might go to Grythyttan. Then you come out of there, and then you buy pots and rent a room. You hire someone to serve, hire someone who makes a website and hire an influence to spread the word about your restaurant. And then on the day of opening you choose not to open, because it is too expensive to buy potatoes. That's completely unreasonable. These 190 million pickadolls are nothing; it is small potatoes in relation to the benefit of this means both for Sweden's participation in the world and for human rights abroad and in this context, i.e. it has taken a number of years and many crowns to achieve this ability. We should be proud that we can contribute, and of course we will. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is almost full agreement in the Swedish Parliament on this effort. It is clear that, as usual, there are objections from two extreme parties, which are often opposed to our participation in different ways, but in general we agree that this effort needs to be made. We agree that this is something that Sweden should support for the world. We Liberals have not been without objections. We have wanted to ensure that there is international legal support, and it does. We have been concerned about how the situation with Corona affects the ability to participate for us and other countries that will be in charge and thus what the stake will be and of course what resources need to be used here at home. That's what we've written. As we have agreed to the bill, we have also announced that this is something we still stand for. We are pleased that we will see more follow-ups of the operation than were originally intended. But above all, we are proud that we can take responsibility in a difficult international context, work with both aid and international-law-based military operations and in this way take responsibility for human rights in the world. I would like to conclude by expressing my warm thanks and respect once again to the men and women who will be involved in this effort, as well as to their families and relatives. This is an invaluable contribution to human rights in the world, and Sweden will be proud.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-119	Madam President, I would like Sweden is and will be an actor for peace and security in the world, both in words and in deeds, especially in the part of the world where it is most needed. Where wars and conflicts spread and terrorist movements gain ground, it is people who are affected. People get their lives beaten to pieces and forced to bury their loved ones. Uncertainty is increasing and prospects are shrinking. The conditions and opportunities to create a future for themselves and their children shrink as uncertainty escalates. This is what is now happening in several of the regions of Mali and the countries around it. Unfortunately, the long-run conflict in the area has escalated in recent years, and armed extremist groups have now increased their activity. The situation is in many ways unsustainable, and more and more human lives are being squeezed. Madam President, I would like Sweden has long been committed to the situation in Mali and the entire Sahel region. In addition to the military efforts that we are debating today, Sweden has a strategy that involves comprehensive humanitarian aid and bilateral development cooperation with Mali. The Swedish work on the agenda for women, peace and security forms an integral part of the work, and through Sida we are one of the largest donors of aid to the country. In recent years, up to 1 000 schools have been closed in Mali due to the current security situation. There are tens of thousands of children who every day lack a school to go to and who do not receive an education. Because of the corona, several countries have closed schools because of infectious and fear. Then it has become clear how much school means to children and to the generation that grows up. Not being able to go to school and not getting an education does not improve the conditions for the future. The war in Mali is being fought alongside the children, but every year the future of more and more people is being destroyed. Madam President, I would like The unrest in the country has been going on for a long time and has put the population into insecurity, poverty and constant fear. In 2013, the United Nations set up the MINUSMA stabilisation operation, which several previous speakers have mentioned, with the core mission of getting a peace agreement in place. Since 2015, Sweden has participated with armed force. The key to our participation has been that it has been done at Mali's invitation and in line with the principles of international law. In spite of this, the fact is that the security situation in the Sahel region has recently deteriorated. The Security Council has stated in several resolutions that the situation in Mali constitutes a threat to international peace and security. The tensions and conflicts between different groups are increasing, as is the risk of serious terrorist attacks. In the light of the unrest, France has decided to include a multinational task force called Task Force Takuba in the existing operation. The focus is on the town of Gao, bordering Niger and Burkina Faso. In the border area between the three countries there is hardly the state. Instead, militant extremist groups have taken their place there, resulting in violence and terror. Task Force Takuba is not a UN-led operation, but it is a multinational effort for peace and security that we will now participate in. It should, of course, be closely monitored, reviewed and evaluated. Madam President, I would like We build security together with others, and we build it for others as well. The effort now being made not only strengthens the work for peaceful development in the Sahel region. It also strengthens our defence and is part of Sweden's solidarity policy. Several previous speakers have touched on this, but it is not enough to emphasise the seriousness of the security situation in the area. The military in the field to combat violence, trafficking and terror is taking a great risk. The operation in Mali has proved to be one of the UN's most dangerous, and the military carrying out the work is doing so at the risk of their own lives. We will never be able to be sure that no Swedish life will be wasted, either in this effort or in others who fight terrorism and act as conflict prevention in the world's most dangerous areas. It is a risk that we in this House are and must be extremely aware of and that we take very seriously. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by sending a huge thank you to all of you who, through the Swedish defence and with others every day, make vital contributions to peace and security in the world. It is thanks to you and others working on the ground that the work for stability can move from words in this House to action. For that you have mine and hopefully the full respect and gratitude of the entire Parliament.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-130	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson! As I stated in my speech, the Moderates are on the same side as the Green Party and the Social Democrats on this matter. We support the Government's proposal for Swedish participation in a military operation to strengthen security in Mali. Madam President, I would like There is reason to agree with much of the speech by the Green Party. You build security with others. The whole picture of the problems, the challenges, the violence and the breakdown in the Sahel region and Mali is correct, and that is why we are there. I still want to ask Janine Alm Ericson a question. The question is kindly meant. The environmental party usually claims to have grown up in, among other things, the peace and environmental movement. The pacifist vein has been represented. But with this decision – as with previous decisions in which the Green Party has also been involved – it points out that violence and arms power are the ultimate means of coping with difficult challenges. Madam President, I would like Several Members, including Janine Alm Ericson, have stressed that this is a very dangerous effort. These are advanced defence activities. Therefore, I would like to ask the question: does this mean that the Green Party, which tends to stress that the party is run out of the peace and environmental movement, has distanced itself from the pacifist legacy? In that case, it is a welcome sobering, I have to say.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-135	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I think it is incredibly good that we have a broad agreement in Parliament on this effort. I think Mr Wallmark was very clear and good in his speech. He just pointed out that this is not something that we can only lay down as the government's responsibility, but it is also the parliament that has responsibility. It is really good that we are on the same side of this. When it comes to the origin of the Green Party in the peace and environmental movement, it is not just something that we say. That is also very much the case. But you don't have to be a full-pacifist just because you belong to the peace movement. Of course, there are situations where violence may need to be used – unfortunately. It would have been a much better world if we had been able to stick to peaceful practices and the non-violence principle across the board, because then we would have got away from the spiral of violence that is, of course, a great risk. It's a risk when you go in like this, and it's a risk at all other times where weapons are involved. But it would have been a much bigger problem if it were only military as we went into Mali. Then it could have been problematic even with the UN operation, as I see it. This will help to ensure that all the other things in which we invest are also working to mitigate the situation in Mali. As I said, we also have aid. There are a lot of other UN organisations involved, and they are working hard to ensure that the situation does not get worse but better. It is also an important precondition.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-138	Madam President, I would like I must say that I very much appreciate the speech by the Green Party and by Janine Alm Ericson. I think it is very balanced. I am extremely pleased that the Green Party is taking this position. I also hope that, when the day comes when we have a change of government, we will maintain a similar view in opposition to what might now have been imposed on us in a government position. I share the importance, Madam President, that we have this breadth of issues of military intervention abroad. I am perhaps less surprised that the Moderates are taking part in such a decision than that the Green Party is doing so, but together we are really showing this breadth. I also believe that it is a strength for the women and men who are to represent us in various international efforts that they know that on both the right and the left and among both environmental partners and Moderates there is commitment, support and an understanding that it is the Riksdag that has sent them to these efforts. I would really like to express my thanks to the Green Party for their participation in this. Furthermore, I share the view that the peace movement is not in opposition to the military. On the contrary, I would argue that the military, a defence force and a strong security policy are the best peace movement. It is precisely by ensuring the security of our immediate region of the Baltic Sea region that we can contribute to peace in the Baltic Sea region. I think it is a broadening on the part of the Green Party, and I am very grateful for that. I believe that it is a strength to emphasise this, even if one has its roots in the peace movement. It is a matter of understanding that this is done through strong defence and a strong security policy in conjunction with diplomacy, and in this case the aid that Janine Alm Ericson underlined is in place for Mali and the Sahel region. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Green Party for the extension of the policy which I believe has now been expressed.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-144	Madam President, I would like I don't know if there's a very big difference or widening. We have supported international efforts in the past as well and think it is important that, so to speak, it is efforts that also take advantage of other things that are being tried to achieve in the country and that might otherwise be lost. Increased protection for the civilian population against terror is an incredibly important part of making the other community-building efforts. We cannot allow people to starve to death, and if we do not support this, other organisations will also disappear. Our aid would then find it incredibly difficult to have an effect. If Hans Wallmark is very happy that we are united on this issue, as I am, I hope that the Moderates can come to their senses in terms of aid. Aid, both bilateral and to large multinational organisations and the international community, plays an incredibly important role in the peaceful development of these countries.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-147	Madam President, I would like It was a very interesting change of line that we recently heard. I have a question for Janine Alm Ericson which is about the same. Ericson said in his speech that we should be where it is needed at its best. In fact, I wonder if this effort is what is needed best in Mali right now. This is an effort that we are embarking on that is offensive. It's not peacekeeping. It's a military operation. It is not a civilian effort in the way that the Minus Main movement is. The advantage of the UN operation, where Sweden has been involved for five years, is that it is both a military effort and a major civilian effort. There is the civil effort to build democracy and to be involved in developing a country like Mali, while recognising that military work is also needed, because the security situation is as it is. This is not an effort like the UN operation. This is an offensive military operation carried out by a single country, France. Other countries, such as Sweden, are invited to participate. Is this really the type of operation that Sweden should participate in? Is this something that we think is really good? Is this something that the Green Party really supports?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-151	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for the question! Yes, this is an effort that we support. Hanna Gunnarsson herself says, and I mentioned it in my speech, that the UN operation has been going on for five years. Yet we see the security situation constantly deteriorating. As I mentioned in my speech and in my reply to Mr Wallmark, we also have a great deal of other work. We focus on a lot of things that we do in Mali. However, when we see that developments are still going in the wrong direction, we have chosen to support the fact that this may be another thing. If this is the most optimal we can continue to discuss. I'm sure there are a lot more things that would have to be done. But I don't think you should let the best become the enemy of the good in any way. That's what we always end up in. There are a lot of problems and questions. It is therefore important that we also have more focus on this effort. We know that there are many different parameters that are difficult. But yes, the Green Party is behind this effort. We see that what we have done so far has been inadequate.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-154	Madam President, I would like Should this be perceived as a swing from the Green Party in terms of how Swedish military and Swedish soldiers should be used abroad? Is it not peace-keeping operations that we should do primarily, or in fact only, in the world? Or should we also be involved in more offensive military contexts in other countries? Unfortunately, we are far from peace in the world. It is a dream that we all have working on these issues, but we are far from peace in the world. There are many other parts of the world where peace-keeping does not reach all the way through and where there is still war and conflict. Are there other parts of the world where Swedish soldiers need to be more offensive in the military work in this way? After all, it is a matter of priorities as we do. These are priorities in relation to the relatively few soldiers we have abroad, but they are also priorities in terms of the money we spend on this rather than putting into civilian work and aid, for example. Is this Sweden's role abroad in the military work in conflict and war? Is it Sweden's role to be an offensive party in this type of work, or is it our role to actually stick to the UN efforts, where we can work civilianly and militarily in peacekeeping operations?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-158	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I must give the Left that they stand by their principles that we should only be involved in UN-led efforts. It is a principle that can be upheld, but it does not make reality any better. The position of the Green Party is that peace-keeping operations and UN operations are what we should contribute in the first place, in the second place and in the third place. It's kind of not that we now think you should run out and fight a little here and there. But this is, as I have tried to explain several times, a very specific situation and a situation where a great deal has changed. Now I can't ask Hanna Gunnarsson a question, so the question has to be a little rhetorical. How does the Left Party really think that tens of thousands of children should not be able to go to school in a country, because the security situation is so bad? It is one thing to stick to principles, but sometimes we also have to look at what is actually being done.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-161	Madam President, I would like It has been interesting to listen to the debate, which has described many different dimensions of this problem. I have visited the area myself and met with personnel and soldiers from Operation Barkhane and also soldiers in Minusma. I have met with the management of the different parts of the overall effort that is being made in the area and have also taken part in the operational planning and direct operational activities. The situation in which you find yourself is certainly not particularly idyllic and, above all, does not need to be simplified in any way in its complexity. This is a big challenge even for Minusma. As a UN operation, Minusma has a very far-reaching mandate from the Security Council. Minusma is not a peace-keeping operation; it is a peace-making operation. It is, in fact, a different kind of balance from the discussion that I think I have seen in some parts of this Chamber debate. In Minusma, you have the right to use deadly force in a threat situation. What the Minusma soldiers and the Swedish soldiers are subjected to in connection with various patrol missions are real and difficult threats. It is my firm belief that Minusma would not be able to do its work unless Operation Barkhane existed. There are, of course, different points of view on this, but in reality one presupposes the other. Operation Takuba will contribute to a substantial and necessary reinforcement of resources. There's a lot of talk here today about the dangers of the operation. It should then be made clear, as I mentioned earlier, that what is happening within the framework of Minusma is not harmless. However, if you have a higher level of risk, you also choose to use units and staff who are prepared for and able to handle such levels of risk. That is why we are sending these special units, and together with special units from other countries there is a much greater opportunity to deal with the situation. I think it is very important to highlight this perspective here in the debate so that this nuance is clearly stated. We've been five years in Minusma. We have contributed there in a comprehensive and good way. Our operations there are respected, and it is felt that our soldiers and personnel are qualified and have a very important role in the operation. I have also had many discussions with the leadership of New York on the UN side, who are responsible for this type of operation and have received confirmation. I have also pressed many times for skills in other countries' contributions, resources, technology, vehicles and various types of technical parts that are necessary for efficiency to work with this. The challenge is terror, trafficking, drug smuggling and religious jihadism. It is of great importance that we fight this in the region together with others. Otherwise, we will also have this problem in Europe. It is therefore also necessary to implement it on the basis of its own security aspects. In our actions, there is no problem whatsoever with international law. We have the international legal mandates that are needed in all parts of this. Based on the fact that we have been in Minusma for five years, I think the regrouping that we are now doing is quite reasonable. Within the framework of Minusma we reduce down to a shooting company stationed in Gao, to join these special units in Takuba. It is a signal of continued long-term responsibility in this context. We're also working on a different strategy. We have a development cooperation of a total of 1.2 billion with Mali, which in terms of contract extends from 2016 to 2020. The main sum is for Sida, where they work for freedom from violence, to strengthen democracy and human rights and for environmental and climate issues. We also have 20 million for the Folke Bernadotte Academy. So we also work in that dimension. Here we have military and civilian side by side, something that has hardly been mentioned in this debate. As far as the covid-19 situation is concerned, we are obviously working together with other countries on this point. There are special quarantine rules in the framework of the UN operation Minusma. The embassies in Mali, Minusma and Operation Barkhane, the EU and international organisations act together on covid-19 issues. Mali as a society has also taken a stand and taken various measures, such as banning commercial flights to Mali and closing schools. This is something that is also included in the Swedish Armed Forces' way of acting when it comes to preparedness issues and when we adapt the planning, especially in connection with Operation Takuba. That is why, as has been said here before, it is not simply to specify the exact dates for different types of establishment. The idea is to have staff officers in place during the autumn. The force will come next year. We believe that we will be able to carry out our activities within the framework of the mandate given until 31 December 2021. We'll make a difference. I have had several talks with defence ministers from other countries participating and, above all, with the French side. It is very clear that our contribution with rapid reaction teams, on the helicopter side and with this type of advisory support and accompanying in relation to Malian security forces will be extremely important and appreciated in this context. It is France, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Belgium, the Netherlands, Portugal, Italy and Denmark that are involved in the cooperative activities. It is the case that we can act together in this type of operation, and then we can also act together in the case of other types of threat in the event of such a situation in our part of Europe. So it is a rewarding and taking in a broader perspective with also different types of dimensions that are directly linked to national security. The discussion about putting this effort against a national defence is a view I definitely do not share and furthermore do not consider realistic in the assessments when designing what is best for Sweden's security in the future. The activities will be carried out within the allocated budget. If the Riksdag makes this decision, I will as soon as possible be authorised to try to visit our staff in the framework of Operation Takuba and take note of their direct operational experience. The initiative to set up the veteran's day was a way of highlighting respect for the international work that is being carried out and that the Riksdag ultimately decides on. It is also important to ensure that there is a realistic debate and a realistic approach to international operations. It is in the deepest sense serious every day. It must be made clear that things can happen, but we are putting an enormous amount of work into risk minimisation and operational considerations. It should be made clear that even within the framework of Minusma staff are not sent out in any case without careful assessment of the operational situation and an assessment of the possibility of completing the task. The knowledge and connection directly to how to behave in these environments is also important when the Riksdag is to make its judgements. If we do not carry out this operation, we will weaken the fight against terrorism, trafficking and drug smuggling. Then we do not take on the full consequence of the content of the problems we have experienced ourselves over the past five years. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus, and it is a good basis to stand on before the coming operation with its demands in everyday life.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-185	Madam President, the Minister for Defence. I am personally quite convinced that defence, foreign and security policy is gaining in breadth in the Swedish Parliament. Broad parliamentary support is a force that we show together towards the outside world. Madam President, I would like to state that the government can always count on the Moderates when we find that what is being put forward by the Government is realistic, reasonable and in the interests of Sweden. This applies whether it is a future defence policy or, as is now the case, a Swedish participation in a military operation to strengthen security in Mali. As has been said before, it is a strength that Social Democrats, environmentalists, Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals and Center Partyists will be behind the decision together. It is a signal of security and foreign policy. I also agree with the Minister for Defence's description that Sweden will make a valuable and appreciated contribution. It will be visible in relation to the other countries. However, I have a few questions for the Minister of Defence. The pandemic is raging. This is not an EU effort, but most of the Swedish soldiers in various EU interventions are now stationed at home. We brought home troops from Iraq because of the pandemic, but I think many relatives of soldiers going away are asking themselves a few questions. Will the action be implemented as planned during the autumn? Will the countries listed by the Minister of Defence be involved? Does this mean, as the Minister for Defence said, that the operation will be completed by 31 December 2021?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-190	Madam President, I would like It will certainly be as I said in my introductory speech, namely that there will be some time shifts. What we are asking for now is a mandate until 31 December next year. I am not going to make provision now whether it will be the end date for the whole operation or not, but that is the mandate we are asking for now. We'll have to come back if other decisions are to be made. Then we'll have to deal with it in special and planned order. But now that is the case. The state of decision-making in different countries is different. Estonia has decided to contribute. The Czech Republic is close to a decision. Belgium, the Netherlands, Portugal and Italy are planning to contribute, and Denmark has previously contributed to Operation Barkhane. The signal I have received is that all countries are prepared to make their contribution. Then they are in different phases. As I said in my introduction, the Swedish Armed Forces are following the issue closely, and planning is adapted to the world situation. Within the framework of the overall operation, there is a thought linked to covid. Of course, everyone is working on this reality.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-193	Madam President, I would like If there is a mandate for an extension beyond 31 December 2021 that the Parliament will support this afternoon, I assume that the government will take that kind of contact. As usual, we of the Moderates will be constructive. As has been said earlier in the debate, including by the Center Party, there is also the control post, i.e. that the government must regularly inform the Riksdag. There are reasons to follow up on these control posts. I also believe that it is essential to make it clear that the valuable contribution from Sweden will mean that Sweden will be one of the heavy partners in the operation together with France and Italy. This is based on the fact that the other countries not only make their decisions but also deliver what they are committed to doing. If one or more countries do not intend to participate, it will affect the whole. The Secretary of Defense uses the term complexity, and it's complex. That is why, Madam President, it is good to have the regular inspection posts in the form of the government having to come back to Parliament with an account. There is every reason for the Minister of Defence and for me as a moderate representative to wish the Swedish troops that we are sending off on this valuable contribution to this international effort, happiness and prosperity.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-198	Madam President, I would like I mark that the decision is valid until 31 December 2021. It is right that Wallmark says that Sweden is a heavy party, and it is an appreciated and valuable contribution. I can guarantee you that. Of course, the question of control posts should be respected.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-199	Madam President, I would like When I think of Swedish international military efforts, I do not think about the film The rest of the day, but rather about the film The Neverending Story. The next time we send people to Afghanistan, men and women will participate who were not even born when those efforts began. Does the government see an end to the operation in Mali – any stop date? When will the Swedish operation be completed in Mali? It has been stated by both the Minister for Defence and the representative of the Liberals that the operation costs almost nothing – 190 million a year. That is a little bit of the reasoning you can see in the TV show Lyxtrap on TV3. You go into the Ica store and you buy a chip bag, two cola bottles and a pack of cigarettes. There will be little money at that time, but if you are stuck in a bet for decades, there will be a lot of money. It is money that could be used for civil defence, defence against pandemics or armaments of the defence at home. Is there a stop date, Secretary of Defense? Is there also a limit to how much money the stakes will cost?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-203	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not share Mr Sällström's views and input values in this context. We have completely different views. I wouldn't want to use words like never-ending story or compare this to some kind of luxury trap. Here we have trafficking, drug trafficking, human trafficking, terrorism and religious fanaticism. We have Daish, who's moving the positions forward. If countries in Europe and other parts of the world are not prepared to do something about this, then we have problems even more directly at our own corner. That is the problem; that is the challenge. We do not choose to stand aside from reality, but choose to take the reality as it looks and, together with others, try to do something about it. I don't know what to use for terms about what Sällström says, but I think we will continue to work internationally. There will be problems all the time. We have been involved in international operations almost all the time, under the auspices of the United Nations, under international law, and we will continue to do so. It's part of government policy.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-206	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have fought roughly the same phenomenon in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and several places. It is not that we do not have problems in Swedish society with phenomena from those countries and regions today. Since the government does not see this as a major expense or a major problem, I assume that it is also prepared to finance the Swedish defence and the Swedish civil defence in full when presenting its defence bill this autumn. You seem to be settled in pretty good cash.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-208	Madam President, I would like In reality, the problems with all sorts of things would have been even worse if different countries in the world had not tried to get to grips with them, including in Afghanistan and Iraq. What would it be like if we hadn't been in Iraq to get to grips with this Daish thing? The problem now is that the coalition has retreated a little and Daish has been able to stick up again. It is clear that action will be needed to counter it back. And why should we allow Daish to surface further in the Sahel area? I guess that's unnecessary. I guess it's better to try to do something about it than stand aside. One can, of course, ironize over amounts and defence decisions and one with the other. I can only say that 25 billion is a large amount of money. That's 75 billion in working capital. That is what we intend to do now to continue to build up Swedish defence capabilities. It will lead to increased military capabilities, and it will mean something. To put it against 380 million in two years would solve all the other problems that possibly exist, that is just an illusion. On the other hand, they help to strengthen our international cooperation. If we are to face a crisis regionally, which I hope we will not need, then we need to have worked together with others earlier and demonstrated that we can contribute and give and take together in the international field. That's how this works.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for participating in this debate! There's one thing in this that I still can't let go. I've asked questions about it several times. While we are now entering into a new operation in Mali, we are reducing our contribution to the UN's major operation, Minusma. We're bringing home soldiers from the Minus Main movement. We close our camp in Timbuktu and move and regroup to another part of the country. We are doing the reduction in Minusma with the argument that we need to have our soldiers at home because we need to increase the armed forces at home. We're going to train more conscripts and so on. At the same time, we are entering into a new effort in Mali and are building a new type of work. I find it difficult to get away from this happening at the same time, and I find it difficult to interpret it as something other than that we are prioritising the UN operation and the work that is being done in it and prioritising a more offensive military effort led by an individual country. For me, that connection, because it happens at the same time, is very clear. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence once again: is this a down-priority of the military and civilian work that the UN is doing and an upsurge of another type of work? Do we see a shift in how we view efforts abroad?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-218	Madam President, I would like If you have visited the area and talked to those who run the operations in Barkhane and in Minusma, then you understand how close they are to working for the whole to work at all and how deeply dependent they are on each other in the different operational situations. To put one against the other is therefore not realistic. You need both, not either. It's important to Minusma that Barkhane exists. It will be important for Minusma that Takuba exists. We've done a great job. For five years we have maintained the level that we had within the framework of Minusma. The regrouping we're doing now, I don't think it's weird or controversial. It is only one way, based on the realities that prevail, to contribute in a different way with other types of dressings. I think this is quite a reasonable development. Then there are different types of units that we have had in Minusma and will have in Takuba. There have, of course, been analyses of how we should act in a situation where we need to have special units in Sweden. In such a situation, we can detach relatively easily and quickly from Takuba – if necessary. It is, of course, carefully analysed. So one cannot be set against the other, but two branches on the same tree presuppose each other. Maybe there were even three branches now. I think that is quite right.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-221	Madam President, I would like I would have preferred us to remain on the big branch, on the branch in which the UN is the organisation leading the efforts. For me, the UN has a special position. If the UN had wanted other types of action from us, we should have instead expanded our operation within the Minusma. I understand what we've done there as very much appreciated. We could certainly have contributed within the UN with other types of units instead of entering into another operation, led by a single country. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that the beauty of the Minus principle is that there is a civil preventive work alongside the military. It's not in the French operation. We must not lose sight of the fact that the best way we have to combat terrorism, trafficking and drug trafficking in the world is a civilian preventive work with aid and development work. We have many good authorities, such as the Folke Bernadotte Academy, who do this in other countries in a fantastically good way. I would also like to highlight the fact that we will now be contributing helicopter resources. We have seen at home in Sweden that helicopters are a good and effective way to transport when you are in a crisis, as we are doing now. We use them for medical transport and when we have fires. That we are now going to move helicopter resources from Sweden, will there be any risks for us in the work that we use the helicopters for here at home?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-227	Madam President, I would like As I said at the beginning, we are going in with about 2 billion in aid between 2016 and 2020, and Sida and the Folke Bernadotte Academy are the ones that run this business. So we have not forgotten the civilian part. Let me remind you that neither Afghanistan nor Iraq are UN efforts. We participate in other types of operations around the world that are also important and necessary. Our line is that we should be able to participate if there are international legal mandates. We are one of the countries that are trying to emphasise the importance of UN action, and we have done so in the Minusma case by first participating for five years and now continuing in this regrouping. I have described how to view Takuba as absolutely necessary in order to keep a part of the balance to Minusma and support them and also how we handle the risk minimisation perspective. With regard to the various national resources that we set aside, one can always speculate whether, in a given situation, we need a certain type of resources in some context, and these are balances that we have to make. However, the Swedish Armed Forces have assessed that in order to carry out the activities they have, this is fully feasible. This will be an important part of the overall operation Takuba, and it will be an appreciated contribution that will benefit Sweden in a long-term and good way.
i-BazgA12Ny4zHa4ULKvUPpx	Madam President, I would like In paragraph 4, A global EU human rights sanctions legislation, I support reservation 5 by S, V and MP. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like We are today debating the activities of the European Union in 2019. However, there are said to be some posts about the current situation in 2020 – as well as from the signed. In June 2019, the European Council agreed on a new strategic agenda for the years 2019 – 2024. It will guide the work of the Council and guide the work of the other EU institutions. The four main priorities are to protect citizens and freedoms, to develop a strong and powerful economic base, to build a climate-neutral, green and fair Europe and to promote Europe's interests and values in a global context. I intend to touch on these priorities in my speech. Protecting citizens and freedoms is of particular interest today. The concept of non-discrimination of EU citizens is particularly topical and also how we should relate to the four freedoms: the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital between EU countries. Protecting European citizens is one of the foundations of the EU. You can vote in EU and local elections to influence EU policy. Free movement allows you to study, practice and work anywhere in the EU. You are entitled to healthcare in another EU country. EU rules also guarantee that the food you buy is safe. When it comes to consumer protection, you should be treated fairly and receive complete and clear information prior to purchase. You have a number of rights when travelling by plane, train, bus or boat and get extra protection if you buy a package trip. You have the right to access high-quality fixed telephony at a reasonable price throughout the EU. You can change operator without changing phone numbers and pay reasonable roaming charges when using your mobile phone in other EU countries. You also have the right to contact the EU institutions in your own language and receive information, support and so on. Madam President, I would like During the course of the coronapandemia process, the issue of intra-EU travel has been raised. Many EU countries have had different approaches to one of the four freedoms: the free movement of persons. The risk of infection and its minimisation has, of course, been indicative in the same way that each EU country wanted to protect its own citizens and people with a residence permit. The methods have been very different. Some countries have had complete lockdowns where residents were basically forced to be locked up at home with the possibility of only life-necessary purchases or walking with the dog – this associated with powerful fines and even prison if the rules were not complied with. In other countries, freedom of movement has been limited in the form of guidelines combined with legislation, which has also been largely respected by residents in these countries. This extreme situation must be given a great deal of scope in the future discussion of priorities. Is it reasonable for Member States to act so differently when it comes to the protection of EU citizens? What principles should guide a future pandemic? Should national disease control rules take precedence over a common EU strategy for the protection of EU citizens? Should each Member State's own interpretation of the free movement of persons take precedence in principle over a common EU strategy in the event of a pandemic outbreak? So a reasonable reflection based on the free movement of persons: would it not be attractive for all EU Member States to withdraw the advice from non-necessary journeys simultaneously within the EU on 15 June, as the European Commission suggests and as many EU countries have already decided? Madam President, I would like Developing a strong and strong economic base and building a climate-neutral, green and fair Europe are interrelated. The EU of the future needs to take up even more rapidly the current climate change. After all, the EU is actively involved and driven by the Paris Agreement, and it is therefore important that all the necessary steps are taken to meet the conditions of the Paris Agreement. There are so many new exciting opportunities within the EU to carry out the climate transition and also to do so in harmony in the creation of a powerful economic base in the tracks of covid-19. Here, the EU has a unique opportunity to take the lead in the global economy through proper, joint efforts on the innovative solutions of the future for a fossil-free EU. Similarly, the EU has a unique opportunity to build a fair Europe by respecting the social pillar by all EU countries and being used as a yardstick for how welfare is to be equal, not exactly the same, within the EU, with respect for national considerations and financing models. Madam President, I would like Promoting Europe's interests and values in a global context is a priority that is of high interest to those of us who are members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The EU has established itself for several years as an important and important player on the international stage, both in diplomacy and in the common foreign and security policy, as well as in trade and free trade. As the US, under President Trumps's leadership, is increasingly alienating itself from cooperation with the EU and reducing its international cooperation and engagement, the EU's presence on the international stage is urgent and guiding in terms of preventive work for peace, conflict management and democratic development. The EU must continue to have the courage to be the actor who always stands up for, promotes and is at the forefront of respect for human rights and Resolution 1325 and is also the largest donor of humanitarian and development aid. There are no shortcuts. Clarity and unity should prevail. Then the EU is strongly opposed to other countries, such as China and Russia, which, in the absence of the United States, are moving forward their positions, not infrequently with a view to promoting their own geopolitical interests. Madam President, I would like In the wake of the pandemic, the EU has shown both strength and solidarity, but at the beginning also division and nationalism. It is important that the EU takes note of this and acts in the future. It is not reasonable for cooperation to crack when needed most, even if it was in the initial phase of the pandemic. The national specific solutions, which initially hindered and severely restricted the four different freedoms within the EU without taking into account a common EU strategy, are hopefully a memory only when a similar situation arises in the future. The EU can, and I know it will be both better and clearer in the future.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-254	Madam President, I would like 25 years ago, Sweden entered the European Union as a Member State. There are many experiences that we have gained during these years. We will evaluate the EU's activities, and that is to look at Sweden in a rear-view mirror. It is also an opportunity to look ahead. The EU and Sweden are interrelated to good and opportunity. What has happened since Sweden's entry? Sweden's foreign trade has increased sharply since 1995. Trade has been specialised. Sweden's investment rate has increased more than the impact study predicted. Sweden has received a boost in foreign investment. Real wages have been running since 1995. This has been the case for most EU countries. What has been good about the EU has been based on trade and a liberal approach. What has been bad about Europe has been about limitations, introversion and distrust of one another. Brexit is there the clearest and most boring example. This is also true of certain countries' increasing secrecy and restrictions on democracy and freedom of expression. It is indeed a tragedy. And Article 7, which no one thought would need to be used, can now prove to be the most important tool of the free and trade-liberal Union. Madam President, I would like The principles of the rule of law are an expression which is increasingly used, by necessity. Democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are unfortunately subject to exceptions in parts of the Union. A rule of law with functioning human rights principles takes a long time to build but can quickly be demolished. Therefore, the EU must respond to any indication that these values are being loosened. Countries that violate these values and principles should feel reactions. Article 7 of the Union is therefore a necessary tool. We have witnessed and lived through Brexit in the past year. It is a blow to free trade and European cooperation. The fact that a Member State voluntarily chooses to leave the European Union and its cooperation is, to say the least, a setback, not only because of the separation as such, but also because it is a defeat for the principles that have made the EU attractive. Brexit must therefore be seen as a signal for the EU to return to and develop the freedoms that have been at the heart of the Union from the outset. In the light of this, we shall look at the process of EU enlargement. New countries, yes please, but make demands that can be followed up over time! Requirements are care, both for the applicant countries and for the EU. Participation obliges and shall also be rewarded in the form of all the benefits of the Union. Madam President, I would like Not everything is sunshine in our world. What is good for Europe is also good for the world. This is particularly true in the area of security policy. Concern requires cooperation on security. There, Pesco is a cornerstone to complement NATO and national efforts. This may be valuable. The threats we are seeing today are taking new forms in the form of cyber attacks and other non-physical forms. Much of the security policy deteriorated the situation in our neighbourhood stems from Russian aggression towards neighbouring countries. With propaganda, corruption and hybrid warfare, Russia has sought to destabilise and stop countries that have themselves chosen to move closer to the EU. When it has not succeeded, the Russian military has been deployed, with the annexation of Crimea 2014 as the clearest example. The EU's economic sanctions against Russia have been a sign of strength for the EU. Sweden should therefore work towards maintaining and extending the EU sanctions regime against Russia unless Russia's warfare and annexation of Ukraine ceases. Magnitsky legislation at EU level must be a high priority. A process for this has begun, and we come from moderate quarters to follow that it is also really being completed. If the process is not completed, we believe that Sweden should introduce national Magnitsky legislation. At such a stage, Sweden should seek cooperation with like-minded countries, including non-EU countries, such as Norway and Iceland. Madam President, I would like It is trade and investment that give life to the Union, create prosperity and give us the tools to do so. Unfortunately, the United States today is problematic and unfortunately not to be regarded as a free trade friend, as it was once. The United States has become increasingly protectionist and less cooperative in important areas of freedom with liberal pretence. In times of increasing global protectionism led by authoritarian states, it is particularly important for the liberal world to come together and act together. The fact is that this is the only way to vigorously counter protectionism and promote free trade. That is why the European Union must put particular emphasis on re-establishing the transatlantic link and taking new joint action once the United States has a new President, if not before. China, this country far away which for many years went under the radar because it joined inwards and did not act very much outwardly, has in recent years been purposefully and increasingly increasing its activity in other parts of the world beyond its territory. The diplomatic tone has been tightened, as has been noticed in Sweden. To win world domination today does not necessarily have to be done by the use of force of arms. On the other hand, military capabilities have been important as muscle display. This is a perspective that we in the European Union must take into account. We must take it with us when we look back at how we have acted, and we must be aware of it when we act in the future. The road to winning world domination can at least as effectively go through investments and acquisitions. Above all, it does not cause as much physical destruction and does not cost as many lives. It is clear to all that the EU today includes countries that are economically very vulnerable. They have structural economic problems, partly in the aftermath of the financial crisis more than ten years ago, and partly in the aftermath of the coronapandemine. These countries are in urgent need of economic reinforcement and are thus also vulnerable to sugary offers of support and investment from countries with a different long-term agenda than to help. Therefore, investment trials at both national and EU level are particularly important. Madam President, I would like EU membership gives Sweden a greater opportunity to participate in shaping policy at European and global level. The EU is the best tool for tackling cross-border challenges and ensuring peace, democracy, security and growth. I request that we add the letter to the file. I also support the Moderate reservation 7 and agree with the other moderate reservations.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-271	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with a solid document, with some seventy different demands for exercise. Many of these claims are very important but unfortunately will not get the attention they really deserve. I would therefore like to emphasise that the Swedish Democrats naturally support the positions expressed in our motions and dealt with in the report. However, in the current circumstances, like other parties, we have chosen not to bring all the requests to the House for consideration. The fact that important issues do not receive the attention they should receive is not unusual in these times. The whole world is facing a tough trial as a result of the current pandemic. The media are thus dominated by a description of the situation we see as a result of this terrible virus. In the shadow of covid-19, important events have been obscured. For example, how many people know that Turkish military is occupying Greek territory? This is only done to support irregular migration in order to destroy for the EU. So we see Turkish military occupying part of the EU. Despite the media's shadow over this, it is an extremely important issue that needs to be addressed regardless of the pandemic. It's not just about it being a clean occupation. It is also about all the long-term consequences, both social and health and economic, which make it more important than ever to highlight these issues even during the pandemic. Even before the pandemic, it was rarely noted that in practice only a few EU Member States are responsible for maintaining the Union's external borders. These countries, and perhaps Greece in particular, have long had to take disproportionate responsibility for border controls, with the result that they have not been able to meet their commitments. In order for Greece to continue to take all necessary measures to maintain the Union's external border, support needs to be provided and other measures taken. In fact, when the system fails as it has done, the whole of the Union, not just Greece, is affected. Madam President, I would like Already at the end of February/March, Turkey announced that 100 000 migrants would be given a safe lease that would be able to cross the border to Europe uncontrollably. Thousands of people, with or against their own will, have literally been bused to the border by the Turkish authorities and then forced to wander towards Europe. The procedure means that Turkey is making a reality of the threats through which it has blackmailed the EU on huge sums of money. They are doing all this to ensure that the EU retains a damaging and unsustainable policy in the area of migration. Unfortunately, we see how legitimate migrants in need of protection have been replaced by economic migrants and other people who have no grounds for protection but who take the opportunity to go to Europe and not too rarely to Sweden. At the same time, asylum law cannot be upheld, as in practice it has often proved difficult to execute expulsions once someone has entered a country illegally. It is well known that a large proportion of the migrants that Turkey has now sent towards Europe's borders have Sweden as their final destination, and to this day, Sweden seems to stand out as the odd example where it still does not really learn the lesson of past devastating mistakes in migration policy. Ironically, those who, perhaps most of all, were in favour of a lax and de facto policy in this area have now also contributed to an asylum collapse. Today, the social effects of this betrayal are evident throughout our country. So let us learn from the mistakes. Madam President, I would like A proposal put forward for consideration is that the support and assistance currently directed to Turkey as a State or its authorities, both for the Swedish part and for those transmitted through the EU or its Member States, should cease immediately. We believe that these funds should instead be directed towards countering the effects of Turkey's provocations, for example through Frontex or national protection measures taken by Greece. We cannot accept Turkey's action, and we cannot leave Greece alone in this. Now that we are looking at the origins of a new storm, we need sharp measures with real effect, and we need to help each other. The Swedish Democrats therefore firmly believe that Sweden must act in order to offer Greece the bilateral support that is possible to increase the conditions for maintaining the external border. Madam President, I would like Today's report also deals with Magnitsky sanctions. These are sanctions that the Swedish Democrats have been working for for a long time. We have long wanted to see national Magnitsky legislation and have long been in favour of promoting a synchronised form of legislation within the EU and Europe. We were pleased to see how all the Swedish parties that have a seat in the Council of Europe voted to call on the Member States to introduce national Magnitsky laws. All Swedish representatives from the Left Party, the Social Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats voted in favour of this. Nevertheless, we see that the Swedish Government is not in favour of this, and we see that other parties in the Swedish Parliament are not in favour of national Magnitsky legislation. On the other hand, it is in favour of testing something that has been tried in the past, namely common EU legislation in this area. This has been discussed in the European Parliament. In addition to a long bureaucratic process, some countries do not want to run into Russia, which, for obvious reasons, would be adversely affected by this type of legislation. It is therefore no wonder that the European Parliament, like the Council of Europe, has chosen to call on the Member States to find their own solutions. This is also the path that I think we should take if we are to get to this type of legislation at all. It is, of course, positive if we can use Parliament to synchronise the Magnitsky laws. But we're not there yet. Attempts have already been made. The ultimate responsibility therefore lies, of course, first and foremost with the national parliaments. In other words, unlike other parties, the Swedish Democrats have understood the difficulties of piloting this through the EU bureaucracy. That is also why we have made our positions in Sweden. We cannot say straight away that we stand up for human rights if, at the same time, we fail to introduce this kind of tried and tested sanctions that can actually make a difference. We cannot say that we do everything when this is not the case. So we can do better than that, and we deserve better than that. I would therefore call on the government, the government's cooperation parties and the opposition to promote national Magnitsky legislation as soon as possible. In today's vote, the Swedish Democrats will first and foremost support our proposals in this area, in which we call for synchronisation and use the EU for this. Secondly, we will vote on the committee's proposal and thus address a declaration to the government. This represents a step in the right direction, but unfortunately it is not enough. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to support reservation 6.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-289	Madam President, I would like This is a corona report, I suppose. For the most unusual reason, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not sent the matter to the other committees to obtain opinions. Anyone who reads and compares will not find the statements of other committees in connection with the presentation of EU cooperation that was put on the table by the government. The Parliament will receive ongoing information from the government regarding EU cooperation, which we are now dealing with together with a wide range of motions, as has been mentioned earlier. But, as I said, this time, in consultation with the other committees, we have agreed that they do not need to comment on the letter. As several speakers have previously mentioned, this is also about the co-reality that we are experiencing here and now in 2020, although this is actually a review of 2019, and 2019 was mainly about Brexit. Brexit then went like wildfire through all our conversations, and the question was how Britain would finally land. After an election they landed in a sharp Brexit decision. The United Kingdom also took part in another election, namely the elections to the European Parliament; 2019 was the year of the elections. Of course, this led to quite a lot of the work of the European Union, the Commission and the Councils being caught up in both the waiting for and the result of elections. It took a long time for the new Commission to come in. Many also waited for the result. It landed in a new Commission that identified four areas: protecting citizens and freedom, developing a strong and powerful economic base, building a climate-neutral, green and fair Europe, and promoting Europe's interests and values globally. In addition, one should focus on future issues. That's it. 2019 was a successful conclusion of many free trade agreements. Free trade is what has built the EU's economic base. It was welcome that, under the leadership of the Swedish Commissioner, we were able to conclude several of these agreements ashore. In the surreptitious era of protectionism, many called precisely for free trade opportunities with the EU as a way of building economic development and strength for several countries, not just for the EU countries. This is and has been important for our economy. Trade agreements must also live up to what we say. Should we deal with citizens' freedoms in the eyes send the wrong signal when, for example, Sweden approved and thus gave the EU the opportunity to fulfil the agreement with Cuba. This free trade agreement was an incorrect signal. It does not promote the values and interests of either the EU or Sweden globally. We deeply regret this. Here Sweden had an opportunity to influence the EU's voice and make it clear in the global environment. On the other hand, when an agreement was reached on a climate-neutral EU in 2050 in December 2019, it was of course a success in achieving this. But many of us would have liked the target to have been brought forward and not landed until 2050. However, it is a step in the right direction. Europe is a dream for many, for us, of freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and of a Union where people really get a chance to live and realise their dreams. It is important that we hold on and ensure that this dream lives. This means developing the EU's capacity to withstand cross-border threats. We see that this may have to happen even if it means broadening the EU's tasks. We are commenting on this in one of our reservations, which I do not, however, support here, Madam President. The enlargement of the EU is in many ways a dream for many. It's a peace and freedom project. This is not undemanding, as some say. But it is good that steps have now been taken to strengthen the focus of the accession process on democracy, human rights and the freedoms that underpin the EU. This is good if late. After all, we were in 2020 when the door for North Macedonia and Albania was opened to take the step of becoming candidate countries. The Western Balkans are important, both for the EU and for all of us, and it is important that these countries, like the other countries in the EU's neighbourhood, have the opportunity to join if they meet the requirements that are required. The EU's ability to assert its – our – values is also about whether it itself is able to live up to them. We must see that there are major challenges internally within the European Union. It was also visible in 2019. We saw it when Poland was hard on its rule of law, the media and freedom. There is visible opposition, but the grip has been strengthened. We see it with tragedy when Hungary, which was one of the countries that was in 2005 forerunners towards democracy, is now leading the march away from democracy. This is confirmed by the fact that Freedom House notes that Hungary no longer has democratic status and no longer lives up to democracy. Poland and others are following in this. Having read Viktor Orbán's speech from the celebration of Trianon, I had every reason to think about what it is that you are doing – the way out of Europe and away from Europe's values. This is of course very worrying. How we deal with this will be crucial if we are to be able to assert with credibility the EU's values of freedom, human rights, a functioning rule of law and democracy. They risk becoming, and perhaps already is, a Trojan horse for other interests, such as Russia and China. We have last seen it blocking transparency with regard to the agreement with China on rail expansion in Hungary. This is very serious. It is important for the EU to be able to stand up and continue an Article 7 procedure and so on. We must continue to stand up for values against Russia and China. Ukraine has been mentioned and is included in a reservation to which I would like to draw your attention. The Magnitsky issue, however, is what I would like to end by highlighting. We say 'yes' to national sanctions legislation and to an investigation that does not wait for Europe but takes precedence so that we have the opportunity to be a force of pressure. We are happy to be together with Nordic and Baltic friends or with other like-minds, but we should be a pusher ahead. We are happy to do so at European level, but it has taken time and that is why we would like to take the lead. I would like to support our reservation 9 in paragraph 5, Madam President.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-304	Madam President, I would like Europe has never been so rich and at the same time so unequal. The inequality between those who have and those who have not spread out. It spreads both within countries and between countries. The EU response to the financial crisis was even more of the right-wing policy that had created the crisis. The banks were saved while the costs were borne by all of us. The growing inequality has created a breeding ground for nationalists and racists, who now want to restrict democracy. With the help of the right, they are taking power in Europe with rhetoric and a policy that kicks down. For the Left Party, democracy, human rights and the rule of law are not negotiable. Governments in several parts of the world have begun to limit the democratic space – in particular the space of civil society – both by limiting the possibilities for funding activities and through threats, violence and restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. We have seen that this development has been further strengthened under the Coronap pandemic. The scale is very worrying. It is also worrying that states seem to be inspired by each other and sometimes cooperate in trying to silence uncomfortable voices. Europe is in no way the exception, but the worrying development of dwindling democratic space is also here. A clear conclusion from the organisations examining this is that, although it is from better starting levels, developments in several areas are in fact the worst in Europe. The Left Party believes that Sweden must work actively within the EU and Europe as a whole, for example in the Council of Europe, to reverse this negative and worrying development. During Viktor Orbán's time in power, Hungary has had a worrying development restricting the freedom of the media, universities and civil society. During the coronapendem, a state of emergency has even been introduced with virtually complete power to Orbán. This state of emergency has not yet been removed, although a date has now been announced for claiming to remove it. Poland is another example. Legislative changes and restrictions to the right of demonstration have been presented, and Amnesty reports on how police harass protestors and try to prevent people from participating in protests. During the year, local parliaments in over 80 cities and provinces have also adopted homophobic resolutions and established so-called LGBTQ-free zones. In Poland, too, the ruling party, Law and Justice, has tried to use the coronapndemin to further strengthen its power by trying to hold presidential elections, despite the pandemic and the ban on holding campaign meetings. Hungary and Poland are often, and rightly so, identified as the EU states with the most worrying developments, but they are far from being alone. More EU countries could be listed where we can see that developments are now going in the wrong direction. Madam President, I would like Last week, the Turkish regime arrested three parliamentarians – two from the left-wing party HDP and one from the Social Democratic Party CHP. One of the arrested was the famous parliamentarian Leyla Güven, who during the winter of 2018 – 2019 became famous for his long and powerful hunger strike. The arrest is one of the ways the Turkish regime uses to silence critics. Another person who is in trouble with the Turkish regime is the young Kurds Resul Özdemir from Värmland. Although he should have been granted a residence permit here in Sweden, like his family, he was expelled in the midst of coronapandemia to Turkey. There he became a front page story and accused of terrorism. Turkey consistently uses the EU's terror stamping of the PKK as a means of blacking out Kurds and anyone standing up for the rights of the Kurds. We have also learned since yesterday that the PKK is not a trace in the Palme investigation; it is more dangerous with Moderates from Täby. The last time, there were four Social Democratic Members of Parliament who fell into the pits of the regime-believing Turkish media. All of these, of course, had Kurdish origin. It can be said that there is a great systematicity in the propaganda that comes from Turkish state-controlled media. The Left Party has long criticised developments in Turkey and called on Sweden and the EU to act more strongly, but the EU has not dared to act against Turkey for fear that Erdo In 2020, the problems have become increasingly apparent. When the Turkish regime threatened to send all its refugees to the border with Greece, the EU reacted by trying to keep people on the run from Europe at all costs. The EU's criticism of Turkey is still cautious, and refugees are being squeezed into the great power game between the EU and Turkey. It is high time for the EU to terminate the agreement and to act clearly against the repression of opponents and against restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms in Turkey. I therefore believe that the government must ensure that the EU breaks this refugee agreement as soon as possible. Right now there is a military exercise called Baltops in the Baltic Sea. It is a marine military exercise for Sweden, Finland and NATO. A total of 19 countries participate. One of them is the NATO country of Turkey. Although Sweden and the EU have condemned Turkey's invasion of north-eastern Syria and despite the fact that the EU has condemned the Turkish Navy's violations of Cyprus's territory in a tough fight for natural gas and oil off the coast of Cyprus, Turkey is granted military access to the Baltic Sea and Europe. This is what Sweden's NATO approach costs in practice. We are forced to cooperate with those whom we wish to condemn. Although the accession negotiations with Turkey are not formally interrupted, it seems less and less likely that Turkey will one day become a member of the European Union. At the same time, enlargement is still taking place against other countries. For these countries, the application process has changed over the past year. As previous speakers have mentioned, this hopefully leads to a better process of enlargement. Today, several countries with a history of widespread discrimination and persecution of LGBT people have applied for EU membership. Experience from countries that have previously entered the Union, such as Romania, Slovakia and Latvia, shows that it is not enough that the applicant countries formally comply with the legal requirements. The applicant countries also need to show commitment to work against discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or gender characteristics. All candidate countries currently negotiating membership of the EU face major challenges in terms of respect for LGBT people's rights. This applies not least to Turkey, which we have been talking about, where pride has been stopped on several occasions, where transgender people have been murdered and where President Erdo中an has repeatedly made homophobic statements. In Serbia, Pride parades have been attacked or stopped completely, and every fourth LGBTQ person in the country claims to have been subjected to violence because of their sexuality. The Left Party therefore believes that the so-called Copenhagen criteria need to be tightened up in respect of LGBTQ people's rights so that it is explicitly stated in the criteria that a country that discriminates against LGBTQ people cannot or cannot be a member of the EU. Last autumn, the European Commission presented its Green Deal. The aim is to switch EU policies to net zero emissions by 2050 and to decouple economic growth from resource consumption. The idea is that Europe will become the world's first climate-neutral continent. The Left Party thinks that this is a good ambition. In fact, it is nothing less than the survival of our planet. We in Europe, the richest continent, can lead the way. The Left Party takes the demands of scientists and the climate movement seriously. We know that if we are to make the transition to an ecological and socially sustainable society, we cannot continue as usual. We need to make major fundamental changes, including in our economy. Therefore, the Swedish Government should work to ensure that the European Green Paper contains binding targets on the way to reducing emissions by 70 per cent by 2030 and zero emissions by 2040 as well as additional targets to reduce consumption-based emissions. With ambitious objectives, it becomes clear that we need to design a new policy and new instruments – not just adjust the margin. The decision of the European Investment Bank to no longer subsidise fossil energy is a step in the right direction. We now need a concrete action plan to phase out environmentally and climate-damaging EU subsidies. For example, European air travel is currently subsidised at SEK 300 – 400 billion per year, according to the EU's own EEA Environment Agency. The Greens need to include increased efforts on equality and justice. Connected societies are better able to cope with major challenges and changes. Instead, societies where injustice exists are torn apart, which is a breeding ground for increased nationalism and right-wing populism. Fair climate change therefore requires specific action in the coal regions of Europe, but it also requires a change in the EU's budgetary framework and a new economic policy. This also requires large investments in rail connections, renewable energy, energy efficiency improvements and sustainable agriculture. We must also dare to focus on the big companies. Today, the 100 largest companies account for 70% of the world's total emissions. The EU must dare to question and put an end to the major environmental and climate criminals. Climate policy needs to permeate more policies, such as trade, agriculture, energy and transport. All decisions must contribute to reducing emissions. The government must therefore work, among other things, to ensure that EU trade agreements contain binding environmental and climate clauses, so that no agreements are signed with countries that have not signed the Paris Agreement. This applies, for example, to the agreement currently under preparation with Mercosur. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Left Party's Amendment No 10.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-328	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4. European cooperation has an important and eventful year behind it. The year 2019 was marked by major issues such as climate, migration and refugee policy and, in particular, the UK's withdrawal from the Union, to name but a few examples. At the same time, the EU economy continued to grow for the seventh consecutive year. Thanks to the efforts to make the internal market more efficient, entrepreneurship and competitiveness could be strengthened. The year 2019 was also the year in which support for European cooperation increased in most Member States. In the European Parliament elections in May, voting turnout was the highest in 20 years. After that, a new and more equal Commission has come into place under the leadership of the Christian Democrat Ursula von der Leyen. And the European Council has agreed on a strategic agenda for the next five years, up to 2024. The strategy has four priority areas: protecting citizens and freedoms; developing a strong and powerful economic base; building a climate-neutral, green and fair Europe; and promoting Europe's interests and values globally. With this in mind, the rule of law and democracy can be safeguarded while the internal market, the Green Party and the common security policy are being developed. It is a strong strategic agenda well in line with the priorities of the Christian Democrats for European cooperation. Madam President, I would like When this is said about 2019, it should also be said that 2020 represents a completely new situation for European cooperation. The Coronandem has completely changed the conditions for economic and welfare development. Across Europe, successful companies are now going down, unemployment is falling, and Member States that have previously had positive economic developments are turning into crisis economies. This is an extraordinary situation – a historic challenge that leads to political strain and fundamentally tests the strength of cooperation and cohesion within the Union. In the negotiations on the EU's financial framework for 2021 – 2027, we Christian Democrats have made it clear that efficiency improvements and re-priorities within an already comprehensive budget are necessary. We have also been clear that the European Recovery Fund currently under discussion must not be based on passive receipt of grants. With regard to both the budget and the recovery fund, financial responsibility is fundamental. Strongly increased membership fees and EU tax are not the way forward. At the same time, we know that the existence of the European Union is fundamentally based on solidarity, that the one who has a helping hand is reaching out to the one who has not. As warm friends of Europe, we defend this. We safeguard unity and unity, and we realise that without negotiations and without dialogue there is no European cooperation. From the Swedish side, we must therefore work for constructive compromises on both the long-term budget and the recovery fund – compromises that do not ignore either financial responsibility or solidarity. Madam President, I would like When the EU received the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize, the stabilisation role of the Union was highlighted, which helped to transform the majority of Europe from a war to a continent of peace. The Nobel Committee's justification for the award states that the EU's most important success is that cooperation has contributed to reconciliation, democracy and human rights. It is worth recalling the historical importance of the European Union, not least in times of unrest when liberal democracy is being called into question, when human dignity is being reduced and when Islamism and anti-Semitism threaten open society. Politics is basically about ideology and human dignity. For the Christian Democrats, this means that we highlight the importance of personal freedom combined with social responsibility and solidarity with the most vulnerable, in other words the values that have been the basis for the European community of values for decades. The EU needs to highlight this. Today, Europe needs leadership that sees the profound importance of reconciliation between nations and peoples and acts for a community not based solely on economic factors. This is essential, not least in relation to the outside world. Madam President, I would like Whether it is the war in Syria, the dictatorships in China and Iran, the challenging Russia or the global persecution of Christians, Europe has an opportunity to make a difference. The Christian Democrats are working for a Europe that speaks with one voice in foreign policy and always prioritises human dignity and human rights. That is why we welcome a greater proportion of majority decisions in foreign policy. We wholeheartedly support European Magnitsky legislation, and we support enlargement of the European Union when conditions exist. Nearest is North Macedonia and Albania. In the coming years, strong, effective and solidarity-based EU cooperation is crucial – close cooperation with respect for differences.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-341	Madam President, I would like You would think that I, as usual, reacted to something Lars Adaktusson said. But the chamber was responding to my request for a moderate reservation. That is why I shall correct myself and ask for the approval of Amendment No 12, which is the Left Party's reservation. Thank you, Lars, for an interesting post! I'll get back to you some other time.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-343	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9, which is a joint reservation by the Liberals and the Center Party concerning a Swedish so-called Magnitsky law. Europe is now in the midst of a huge and historic crisis, naturally as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. It is somehow placed on top of the consequences of past crises and problems, structural problems and so on, in many Member States. In addition, we have the Brexit problem, a more unstable world situation, an increased domestic polarisation with a growing populism and much more. This debate is really looking back. It is a strange thing that we are discussing what happened in the European Union last year. We can do that, of course, but I would still like to give most of my speaking time to talk about the future. I am a liberal, and I am a very warm friend of Europe. I began to engage politically in order for Sweden to become a member of the European Union. My first political meeting was a meeting at a so-called 'yes' centre during the campaign for Swedish EU membership in 1994. European cooperation must be strengthened and deepened. Unfortunately, Sweden is becoming increasingly marginalised because we have actively chosen to remain outside important parts of European cooperation. EU cooperation is essential for us to be able to stand strong and protect our freedom and democracy against destructive dictatorships such as Russia and China. A strong Europe is also necessary to drive forward the work of democracy and human rights and a rule-based world order in which we resolve things multilaterally in global agreements on climate and much more. Today, a strong Europe is also necessary for liberals and other progressives in countries such as Poland and Hungary and elsewhere where right-wing radicalism is growing. Similarly, a strong EU is essential for a functioning internal market with more harmonisation, stronger competitiveness and increased growth. The fragmentation and polarisation that today characterises both Europe and large parts of global geopolitics is a setback for the world of historical dimensions. On top of all of this comes the pandemic which of course changes the situation and the whole playing field dramatically, with now almost 200 000 dead EU citizens, and tens of millions of jobs threatened. Madam President, I would like In this context, greater European solidarity is needed both between citizens and between Member States. Resolute efforts are needed both in the short term and in the long term to effectively prevent the collapse of states in several countries in southern Europe. This means that questions about long-term budgets, recovery packages, possible borrowings, own resources, and so on are now at the top of the agenda and come in a partly new light as a result. Sweden has chosen an economically restrictive line that is being pursued so absurdly that we will soon be completely alone. There is reason to criticise this. The attitude that Sweden is now showing towards other EU countries will further marginalise us in European cooperation. After Brexit there is also no UK to ally itself with and sometimes lean on. It is another balance of power in Europe now, more concentrated than before around Germany and France. It is also those countries that see the realities of a number of crisis-stricken economies and are now prepared to take responsibility for this. A united parliament, apart from the Liberals, has chosen that Sweden should only participate in the European cooperation half way and at half speed. I find that deeply regrettable, Madam President. Finally, the Liberals have another reservation in the report. I refrain from calling for its approval and then gain time during the vote. It concerns developments in Turkey. It has come to a point where the accession process with Turkey must now be formally interrupted. Now the AKP party and Recep Tayyip Erdo中an have ruled Turkey for 17 1⁄2 years. Reforms took place for the first three or four years, which also paved the way for an improved relationship with the European Union. From 2007 onwards, Turkey has practically not implemented any reforms. As a result, certain chapters of the accession process should not be opened. Then came a number of years of stagnation, increased control of the inhabitants of Turkey, stronger political repression, arrests and control over the media. It was a gradual dismantling of what is checks and balances within the state. Since 2014, the AKP party was in a worse position. The majority of the elections were lost. It declared a state of emergency and interrupted the peace process with the Kurds. They started new wars, crippled the whole country and forced a new election that Erdo中an won. The result was the coup attempt the following year in Turkey. It has since been followed by massive repression right up to now, and it is still going on. There's mass arrests. The opposition parties and their structures are being destroyed. It acts in a way on the question of the rule of law and human rights which makes it impossible today to regard Turkey under the leadership of the current regime as a partner of Europe or a country that can become a member. That is why we must now take the step of suspending the accession process with Turkey.
i-ExpAdHdvF1Gb9TDpvfwv7r	I would like to welcome the ministers. The questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Åsa Lindhagen and Minister Lena Micko. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-361	Madam President, I would like Yesterday's figures from Arbetsförmedlingen show that unemployment has now risen to 8.5 per cent. It should be compared to 6.6% just a year ago. It is partly an effect of the crisis. However, even before the pandemic, Sweden was the worst in the EU to push back unemployment. Since Stefan Löfven took office as Minister of State, unemployment has decreased in all EU countries except one – Sweden. Now that we're going into a recession, what's the point of his success? We Moderates believe that emergency measures must be temporary. They need to be rolled back. Sweden must re-establish the line of work following this crisis. I would therefore like to ask Ibrahim Baylan: Will the Social Democrats restore the unemployment fund after the crisis?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-364	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Malmqvist, for raising an important issue, namely the right to a job! It means a great deal to the individual to feel needed and to support himself and his family. It also means a great deal to our country. That is why from the first day we have had it as our first priority. Statistics are a little treacherous. It is possible to describe the same thing in several different ways. Before the crisis, Sweden, under Stefan Lövven's leadership, had had an employment increase of nearly 350 000 people. We had the highest employment rate throughout the European Union. Yes, we also had high unemployment. This was because more and more people wanted to work and signed up to participate in the labour force, which is something positive, something good. Since the start of the crisis, we have taken a large number of measures. These are estimated to have saved some 200,000 jobs so far. Yes, we will continue to take steps to assert Swedish jobs and mitigate the effects of the Corona crisis on jobs and entrepreneurship.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-367	Madam President, I would like Soon half a million people will be unemployed. Tens of thousands, many born outside the EU, are at risk of permanent exclusion. That is why we in the Moderates are proposing a reduced tax on labour and the ceiling on benefits. Work must always pay off. Why does the government refuse to introduce measures such as premium ceilings and reduced taxes on labour, as we know is working?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-369	Madam President, I would like It is a rather one-sided view of the labour market and business. Yes, sometimes tax cuts can help but far from all situations. Active enterprise policy, an effort to ensure that there is a skilled workforce, investment and investment in research and innovation in infrastructure, we know that affects both the willingness to invest and employment. I believe that, together with the business community, we will need to give priority to this type of investment in order to ensure that Sweden will also strengthen out of this crisis.
i-8qPSKffkXTXjLNebGuQjKn	Madam President, I would like On Wednesday 3 June, more than a thousand people gathered in Stockholm City to demonstrate. In order to limit the spread of covid ‐ 19, a demonstration permit for a maximum of 50 persons had been issued. The demonstration violated the restrictions imposed by the authorities. And the dissolution resulted in riots and vandalism. In the media, we were able to see a police officer hugging demonstrators, despite the public health authority's demands for social distance. Worse still, it became when the country's responsible minister paid tribute to what was happening in social media comments. I want to ask Ibrahim Baylan a question. Is it the Government's view that the recommendations of the Public Health Authority and the regulations of the Riksdag and the Government, which are intended to prevent the spread of covid-19 infection, should be broken? How does the Government intend to act in the future so that what happened will not be repeated?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-373	Madam President, I would like In peacetime we have never seen the kind of restrictions we have now. We have them for a very good reason; there is a pandemic going on. We must do our utmost to curb this pandemic. It is both about the spread of infection and about saving lives. In addition, we do our utmost to mitigate its effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is against this background that we have introduced the limit of 50 or 49 people. It should of course be held. It is against this background that the police, when people ask to express their constitutional right to demonstrate, take into account the fact that there should be just 49 people. It is also against this background that the police are dealing with this. This is a matter entirely exclusively for the police. However, we can both say that, in view of what has happened, it has not been very successful. But the 49-person limit applies. We are also holding a dialogue with the police on this.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-376	Madam President, I would like I feel that Ibrahim Baylan avoids answering my question. It is correct that the right of demonstration is constitutionally protected. Of course we'll protect it. But we are in a situation with many sick and many dead because of covid-19. The Public Health Agency has also issued clear restrictions to the general public to limit the spread of infection. The attention paid to police action is not taught police tactics, nor is it in line with the recommendations of the Public Health Agency. How, then, can a minister responsible pay tribute to such action?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-379	Madam President, I would like We will do what is necessary to limit this infection. It is against this background that we have fairly clear rules. The police are making an assessment. Unfortunately, in this case it turned out to be a misjudgement because there were far more than the demonstration permit. The police then had to deal with the situation. I believe that we will have reason to jointly investigate many of the efforts. This applies both to the restrictions themselves and to the ways in which authorities have acted.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-382	Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Energy is whether the government is prepared to take any measures to extend the environmental permits for investment decisions on wind power projects. The Government has chosen to invite parts of the energy industry to a meeting about the influence of the coronavirus. Given that wind power will already deliver more than 30% of the amount of electricity we use today in two years' time, it is important that the expansion does not stop, for example because of a shortage of necessary labour. The government has recently, in order to mitigate the effects of the proliferation of covid-19, made an attempt to extend exploration permits for mineral exploration. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Energy is prepared to review the possibility of doing something similar in order to ensure that the establishment of wind power projects can continue as planned.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-385	Madam President, I would like I thank Linda Courage for the question. I have had several consultations with the energy industry during this time to address any concerns in the management of the Corona crisis. So far, the overall picture after these talks has been that the situation for the energy sector is positive. They have been able to deliver energy, and they have been able to supply human resources and materials. If it were to turn out that the Corona crisis would make it difficult to cope with the expansion rate in wind power, I would not close the door to a discussion about extending various permits.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-388	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The problem is that wind power has not been represented in the discussions that have taken place. It is certainly essential elements of the industry that have been involved in the talks, but the point is that these projects must not be jeopardised. I believe that we agree in the January agreement that we should have an ambitious climate agenda and manage the sustainable transition. Then it is important that these permit processes, which are currently so resource- and time-consuming, both in the mining industry and in the wind power industry, are really facilitated.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-390	Madam President, I would like I want to start by agreeing with Linda Modig on the importance of both speeding up the permit process and keeping up the pace of wind power expansion. However, there is a risk that extensions of permits will lead to a postponement of projects and a slower expansion of wind power projects. Then, on the margin, I would like to protest against the description that the wind industry was not involved. We have invited energy companies to gather the entire energy industry. Thus, important parts of the wind power industry are also represented.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-392	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Ibrahim Baylan is one of the eight ministers who are now part of the climate college that the government has just set up. The purpose of the College is, as I understand it, to promote, among other things, the achievement of climate objectives in all policy areas. The Climate College will have a particularly important task in ensuring that the recovery policy that will be implemented in Sweden after the Corona will lead to our climate targets being met. So far, the government has made no such demands in connection with the approximately SEK 250 billion that have been paid out in Corona support from the government. Today, a letter was sent from the Climate Policy Council, which just addressed the importance of putting climate requirements in the post-Corona recovery policy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: has the Minister taken note of the letter, and will there be climate change requirements in the recovery policy?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-396	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for an important question! Let me begin by saying that I am proud to be part of a government that has taken such good care of public finances that in this very precarious situation, for the country and globally, we have been able to use resources to assert jobs and jobs in our country. It is estimated that in this way we have been able to save in round numbers 200 000 Swedes' jobs, which is very important. It is not that there have been no demands, as Jens Holm says. Some of the efforts, such as green credit guarantees, have focused on this. Looking ahead, for me, it is not so much about demands as about opportunities. I believe that the green transition is one of the most important opportunities for Swedish industry and for Sweden as a nation to strengthen its competitiveness in a situation where both we and the world will try to come back after the Corona crisis.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-400	Madam President, I would like Let me be very specific. In the letter from the Climate Policy Council, which I asked the Minister if he had taken note of, it is mentioned, among other things, that when the EUR 5 billion of credits were promised to the aviation industry, there was no climate change requirement on the aviation industry, for example, if emissions were reduced. Nor has the government, as far as I know, called for the phasing-out of fossil subsidies to industry now that various forms of aid have been granted. What I want to know is how the government is thinking about this.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-401	Madam President, I would like One wonders what world the Left Party lives in. We entered the deepest crisis we have ever experienced during peacetime. In this situation, the government has acted to limit the infection, save human lives and mitigate the effects on jobs and companies so that Swedes will have a job to go to. That's what we've been working on. We will not just make demands. For our part, climate change is the greatest opportunity for Swedish industry, industry and Sweden as a nation.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-403	Madam President, I would like We're in the middle of a pandemic. It is not just a crisis; it is two crises in parallel. Then it is important to keep many balls in the air at the same time and be as clear as possible. The government has given information on measures both for health care and for business during this serious time in which we find ourselves. Many of these are good; some need to be extended or adjusted as they go. On a number of occasions, the Prime Minister and the Government have told the municipalities that the government will cover Corona-related costs, but on several occasions it has also been forgotten to say that it only concerns health and care-related costs. When I have talked to the business community of our tourist municipalities, which are now hopefully to have visitors during the summer, they have said that they must be able to secure the places in order to prevent the spread of infection. Will municipalities that invest in securing their tourist resorts to prevent the spread of infection this summer receive state Corona compensation for this?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-407	Madam President, I would like It is just as Camilla Brodin says: when this crisis began, we went quite quickly and clearly to regions and municipalities with the state taking the cost of limiting the spread of infection and ensuring that human lives are saved. I think that was very important, so that it did not get in the way of this. In addition, Madam President, the Government has announced and the Riksdag, on a proposal from the Government, has decided on additional contributions to municipalities and regions of over 20 billion, resources that are about to go to both strengthening welfare and enabling municipalities to make efforts to mitigate the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship in the crisis we are in. I believe that it is even EUR 25 billion, in addition to the fact that the government is also taking the costs of care for the elderly and medical care where it is Corona-related.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would have liked a clearer answer to the country's tourist municipalities. Here fuzzyness is not what you need. Municipalities have been turned down by what they have applied for precisely because it is not healthcare related, but they try to strengthen up incredibly much. You got on your knees earlier, even before the pandemic, and now you get no even though you take responsibility for wanting to stop the spread of the disease.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-411	Madam President, I would like The municipalities and regions of the country almost always express, also via SKR, that they want general state subsidies. That is also exactly what the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, have contributed – over 25 billion in reinforcements this year, in addition to the fact that we are also taking the extra costs of the coronapandemine. I can also point out that today, together with Visita, HRF and the Public Health Agency, we have presented guidelines so that we can get the tourism industry going, but in a way that is also safe.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-414	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anders Ygeman. Swedish power grids warned this week that, as they put it, other sectors of social importance may need to review their planning for possible disruptions in electricity supply before summer and early autumn. Swedish power grids also warned last week that rolling power cuts for the first time can be considered so that the electricity system will not collapse when consumption increases in winter.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-418	Madam President, I would like First a small correction, Arman Teimouri : This is the same warning that SKK has had in its power balance report in recent years. So this is not the first time. It is in a lower risk range than in some of the other countries around us – just compare. Sweden has a strong surplus of electricity. Last year we had the strongest surplus of electricity ever and exported as much electricity as three quarters of Denmark's entire production. I have taken a joint initiative with the industry to secure impact in southern Sweden and the Stockholm area. We have also extended the power reserve to cope with such a situation as described in the Swedish Power Network report. We have also increased transmission capacity between North and South. Over the next ten years, electricity lines will be built twice as much in Sweden as they have been in the last 30 years. So we have a good situation.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-421	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The report showed that this was a normal winter. The problem is that when we have normal winters here, they probably have that in our neighbours too. Basically, this is about what Sweden should be for the country. I have a completely different opinion from that of the Government. The power supply is the real core of welfare, and we cannot accept rolling power cuts in the future.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-424	Madam President, I would like No, we haven't accepted it before, and no, we won't accept it in the future. It may be worth informing Arman Teimouri that we export electricity even during the peak load hour, and we have done so every year for the last ten years. But we also import electricity. It is because we have a Nordic electricity market where electricity goes to those who pay the most and from them to get the best price. I believe that this is an order that Mr Teimouri, as a liberal, should endorse.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-427	Frau President! My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko. Västerbotten is one of Sweden's important forest counties, and by its nature it has cities and is in other parts sparsely populated. This means long distances to service to which all people in Sweden are entitled. This is what it looks like in large parts of Sweden. I believe that all people feel the presence and accessibility of state, municipality and region is necessary to maintain and strengthen the confidence that is so much needed in a strong society. The National Service Centre has opened two new offices this week in Västerbotten, in Åsele and Storuman, with services from Försäkringskassan, the Swedish Pension Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and Arbetsförmedlingen's customer centre. It is of course very welcome, and I wonder how the Minister of Civil Affairs views the future of service offices with a focus on accessibility in more municipalities and with more authorities.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Stenberg, for a very important question! As Fredrik Stenberg describes, it is an important issue to keep our society together that the state is present and that rural and sparsely populated areas throughout the country live. This is indeed a political priority on the part of the government and the cooperation parties. This week I have been involved in opening the service offices in Storuman and Åsele, and next week it will be time in Vansbro and Torsby. In this way, we hope to see that we also link public services between the state and the municipalities. I think that we need to think again in those lines, that is, in terms of how we can work together in an ever better way. Here is also Arbetsförmedlingens kundtorg with, which is also an important part of the public service. Our ambition is for this to grow and develop, because that's how we stick together our country. It is basically a matter of trust in public services.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-436	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister is talking about the importance of keeping our society together, and I am also pleased that she is highlighting this issue of innovation and how we can work together in the future to ensure accessibility throughout the country. The discussion on opening hours has not escaped me either, and I wonder how the Minister views it. Is there any comment or clarification?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-438	Madam President, I would like These offices will first be open three days a week, as I understand. But the ambition is to expand the opening hours, and then there must be a basis – that there is a public service and authorities that participate in this and that we can open more offices according to and with extended opening hours. That is the absolute ambition. There is an investigation that Sven-Erik-Erik Österberg has responsibility for, and we will get a basis and answer to that this autumn.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-441	Madam President, I would like In Finland new owner directives have now been given to the equivalent of Swedish Sveaskog. The ownership directives make it clear that efforts should be made to halt biodiversity depletion and to pursue sustainable forestry. But in Sveaskog these ambitions do not exist. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises uncertainties from the owners', that is, ours, side about how Sveaskog will contribute to sustainability. If we look at the articles of association as it stands now, we see that there is no word about sustainability. The primary objective of Sveaskog is to conduct the forest industry and related activities if it contributes to increased returns. Despite failure to achieve the environmental objective Living forests, Sveaskog does not even have a social mission. Therefore, my question to Ibrahim Baylan is: Is it not logical and about time that Sveaskog is given a social mission?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-444	Madam President, I would like I would say, however, that Swedish forestry is well positioned to combine productivity and sustainability. Why is that? Well, we in Sweden have, quite rightly, over the years added a large number of demands on biodiversity and sustainability, and we also avoid some mistakes that both we and other countries have made historically. I can agree with Rebecka Le Moine that you can always do better, and it is against this background that a case is currently being prepared about Sveaskog and that we are implementing together with the Center Party and Liberals in accordance with the January agreement where we have ensured that Sveaskog and Swedish forestry are made even more sustainable. Basically, it is the way forward to benefit from forest products in a way that is also sustainable and in accordance with biodiversity.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do not agree with the assessment that Sweden has sustainable forestry. It is also clear from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's reports and the follow-up to the Live Forest goal that this is not the case. At the same time as the sustainability requirements in Finland have been increased, the yield requirements have also been adjusted. It is economy within the boundaries of ecology. I wonder if Ibrahim Baylan subscribes to those principles and is prepared to implement such principles in Sweden and in Sveaskog.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-449	Madam President, I would like You don't have to agree with each other. Perhaps that is why we have a Question Time. I have had the opportunity in the past, as Minister for Energy, to engage a great deal in forestry policy, in biodiversity and more. The forest is one of the largest sources of energy in our country. I note that many other countries point to Sweden as a country trying to find this balance between productivity and biodiversity. Have we found it? I think it's dangerous to say that everything is perfect, because it's not, and it's against that background that we will continue to work.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-453	Madam President, I would like Skåne suffers from higher unemployment and lower tax rates than the other metropolitan regions, and the Corona crisis has made the situation even worse. At the same time, Skåne lacks adequate road and rail connections that can expand the labour market region and make it easier for people to get where the jobs are. Renovating infrastructure is a good way to get out of the crisis and create new jobs. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister Baylan if the government intends to invest in the expansion of important and necessary Scanian roads such as the E6 between Helsingborg and Vellinge, the E65 between Svedala and Ystad, the ring road around Trelleborg and others.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-455	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for an important question about our infrastructure! Sweden is, as you know, a sparsely populated and large country – the fourth largest in the EU. It is against this background that this government has presented an infrastructure plan that is the largest ever in modern times with over 700 billion in investment. It is also against this background that we have increased investment in maintenance both on roads and on railways. Skåne is one of our most important regions, and of course we invest in infrastructure there. What is going to be the big challenge for us now, when we are in a rather big crisis and where infrastructure investment could be a way out of it, is both to ensure that resources are sufficient and to ensure that we get the processes moving. This can also help in the short term in all these investments that I am talking about.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-458	Madam President, I would like I wonder: Is the government prepared to bring forward infrastructure investments in Skåne, which will make it easier for people to commute and get to their jobs and which will also create new jobs?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-459	Madam President, I would like Since March to today, we have presented eight additional budgets focusing on mitigating the effects of the pandemic on jobs and entrepreneurship throughout our country. That's what's been the focus. But Boriana Åberg is on something important: Now that we are looking forward – how can we also get our economy moving as we go through the pandemic? Then infrastructure investment in our country will be one of the tools. What I am pointing out is that, if it is to work cyclically, it must also work with these processes.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-462	Madam President, I would like Authority encourages staff to delete emails about criticism regarding lack of mouth protection. This, Madam President, was read in a review that SVT has made of the Swedish Work Environment Authority's actions following the scandal of oral protection at the retirement home Serafen in Stockholm. According to SVT's disclosure, they have adapted to pressure from SPR – all because they want to tone down and avoid a difficult debate on the matter. The handling has caused strong reactions, and several complaints have been received by the Ombudsman. Some experts argue that the Director-General should be dismissed. Madam President, I would like The question must be asked: what is the role of the government in this? We remember the tours around Försäkringskassan, where the government appointed the Director General as the scapegoat to conceal its own actions. This automatically raises questions about the government's role in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's actions.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-466	Madam President, I would like Let us start with the basic question: Yes, it has been important to ensure that protective equipment is produced. It has been evident both in Sweden and globally that there has not been a readiness for the type of gigantic pandemics that we have seen. Against this background, I believe that both public authorities, private companies and others have done their utmost to ensure that this deficiency is remedied. Fortunately – and here I myself have participated in many of the talks – we have managed to develop domestic production and have ensured that authorities and, in this case, businesses and also regions and municipalities have tried to help solve this. Then there are some questions about how this has been handled. But here we have clear rules. We have a principle of public access, and we have other clear rules on how authorities and private companies should behave. On the issue of trust, the government has every confidence in all its Directors-General until something else has been announced.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-470	Madam President, I would like Does the Minister think that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has acted correctly with regard to the criticism that has been made? Does the Minister not think that some kind of government action is needed so that this does not happen again?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-471	Madam President, I would like Just as Magnus Persson said here before, there have been some notifications. Then we have an order for how it should be sorted out, and then it must also be done according to all the rules of art. I think it is important that it is done that way, because after all, our rules should not only work when it is sunshine but also when it rains. If there are shortcomings, we are, of course, prepared to take the necessary measures to correct them.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-474	Madam President, I would like Sweden is experiencing the most profound crisis in modern times. Thousands of women are now at the forefront of the fight for life and health. Their efforts should be lifted and paid attention, not only now but also in the future. The historically large emergency packages that we have launched in recent months have been absolutely necessary, but on existing structures. These existing structures almost always benefit men. I therefore wonder what other measures Minister Åsa Lindhagen is planning right now to strengthen economic equality in Sweden, which is one of the milestones in the objectives of gender equality policy agreed by the Riksdag.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-477	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the honourable Member, for an important question. It is a fundamental part of the Government's gender equality work that we should have gender mainstreaming in everything we do. We shall constantly analyse how the reforms that are being carried out are striking at women and men and their opportunities. We are at a time when there are very great uncertainties. I think we will have to follow the situation of women in the future, because there is a great deal at present that we do not know. It is extremely important to see how this affects women and men. But the fact that it affects women, as the Member of Parliament points out, is obvious. I believe that some of the things we will have to continue to work with are the situation of women born abroad in the labour market. We know that there have also been shortcomings in the past and that we are not doing a good enough job. It is extremely important that we now do everything we can with the emergency packages that have been put in place to enable people to remain in work. It is also, not least, a question of ensuring that people get back into the labour market quickly.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-481	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Government for the answer and for the work she does for increased gender equality in Sweden! I still feel that I did not really get an answer to my question. Are there any concrete steps planned right now to ensure that we reach the intermediate goals that this congregation has been involved in making decisions on?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-483	Madam President, I would like All the measures now being taken are both about saving lives and health and about saving Swedes' jobs. I believe that the large resources that have been allocated to municipalities and regions also benefit women's situation, because we know that many women work in the public sector, for example. We're gonna have to keep doing this. We will have to do more, and I think there is a lot that we do not know at the moment. We will continue to work for economic equality; it is crucial. The government has set up a Commission on this, which will also have to take into account the consequences of the Corona crisis and see what proposals need to be put forward. This is then shared by the government.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-487	Madam President, I would like My question is horizontal and therefore goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. It is with great concern that I note that China is holding Gui Minhai in prison. China threatens individual ministers when they are at the PEN Club to award the Tucholsky Prize. China has threatened the KDU, and most recently China is threatening Ebba Busch. It is deeply disturbing when another country in this way enters and interferes with how we work in Sweden.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-491	Madam President, I would like Not only in Sweden, but also internationally, we have seen an increasingly offensive China. For Sweden, the line has been clear both with regard to Gui Minhai – that he must be released – and with regard to the other elements that have existed. China has thus had views on what Swedish politicians say. As Swedish politicians, we can live with that. But China has also had views on what free Swedish media write and not write. Against this background, my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has had a dialogue on several occasions with the Chinese representative here in Sweden, the ambassador. She has then put forward both the Swedish Government and, as I see it, the opinion of the entire Swedish political system that we reserve the right to have views when we believe that fundamental values are threatened.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-494	Madam President, I would like In my former capacity as municipal councillor, I have been involved in signing agreements with a city in China; we have had educational collaborations between Uddevalla and Kunming. We have many companies in West Sweden that depend on China, and we cooperate with China and have had respect for China. But something has happened in the Chinese nation in recent years that we as politicians must observe, and we must stand together. I would therefore also like to point out that I was careful to show that ministers have also been threatened, just like my party leader. That is why I am pleased if the government is clear that China should not actually act inappropriately against us in Sweden.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-495	Madam President, I would like It is correct that Magnus Jacobsson says: It is an important country that is also becoming increasingly important, not least from an economic perspective. It has grown to be one of the largest economies – sometimes, by some standards, even the largest economy in the world. However, it does not change the fact that we reserve the right to have a free debate and a free discussion and to have views when we believe that fundamental values are not respected. I believe that we are united throughout the Swedish Parliament, including when it comes to views of our politicians.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-496	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. This week, the government announced the establishment of a new Climate College. The idea is that it will have a central role in implementing the climate action plan and achieving the climate goals we have set ourselves. The College will include a number of ministers. There are also other countries that have similar functions; in Germany, for example, there is a climate cabinet, and in Denmark, the country's Minister for Climate and Energy has been leading a ministerial group to work for green conversion for a year. My question to the Government is what conditions he sees there are for achieving the large, cross-sectoral measures needed to restore the economy and achieve a fair climate change in society.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-499	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Marlene Burwick! I think the conditions are good. We have great climate gains to make in the transformation of the transport sector, both in the case of passenger cars and in the case of heavy goods vehicles. It is about electrification but also about biofuels. In the industry we have Hybrid, the first project in the world to switch to carbon-free steel production. We have a significant cement production that can be electrified at the margin but also use CCS, carbon capture and storage, to cope with its emissions. We have an agriculture that can in fact be both electrified and digitised to make great environmental benefits. We also have a number of good road maps from the Swedish business community that show the way forward. Now we can use this tragic pandemic, all the people being laid off and all the resources we have to actually take a huge green step forward in Sweden.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-502	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. The Government mentions many of the very issues contained in the letter sent by the Climate Policy Council to the Government. In the Government's portfolio, there are many crucial issues to cope with the transition, and I am very pleased that the new climate college is now being set up. It has been part of the criticism that the government has received, and I am glad that it is now being lifted up here – and that we are getting even more power behind the climate transition.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-504	Madam President, I would like The goal is there: Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. We will be able to combine economic development with the highest climate ambitions in the world. Then we can show those countries in Eastern Europe who are now hesitant that it is not a question of choosing between climate and prosperity, but of coping with prosperity and prosperity by pursuing an active climate policy. We can make the world both a little greener and a little redr.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-505	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise. The Corona crisis has hit the tourism industry hard. Visita told us at a meeting we had that an important support for their member companies is the rental reduction. However, it depends on the landlord choosing to use this support and offering it to his tenants. Visita testifies that many state-owned companies in general, and Jernhusen in particular, have chosen not to take advantage of the opportunity. Jernhusen's tenants in the 40 stations and 90 waiting rooms owned by the company are deprived of the support that the rental reduction could provide. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs think it reasonable that state companies should not set an example in offering aid to companies that are struggling for their survival?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-508	Madam President, I would like I think it is to some extent old information that the honourable Member has, because in recent weeks more than 8 000 agreements have been concluded on rent reductions. That's good. This has been done both by publicly owned and operated real estate companies and by private property owners, and it is good that. For we are in a deep crisis, and then we need to help each other. In addition to the rental subsidy, the government, together with the Centre Party and the Liberals, has introduced restructuring aid. It is an aid that we are currently working on together with the European Union and which also helps to facilitate and mitigate the impact of a severely affected tourism industry – in this case, but it also applies to many other sectors – which, of course, have had a difficult time because demand has fallen so sharply.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-511	Madam President, I would like In the latest PISA survey, Sweden increased its results after a long period of decline. However, there were quite soon doubts that Sweden had excluded as many as 11 per cent of the appointed students. However, the Swedish National Agency for Education stated before the Education Committee that the rules had been followed to the letter. Then came Expressen's credible revelation that students with supposedly weak results had been misplaced. A principal stepped forward and admitted straight up and down that she had wrongly removed students from the test, and I guess there was every hope that things had gone right. What does Minister Baylan now think about the credibility of our rising results in the test, and what does the Minister think about an authority having probably provided incorrect information in a committee?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-513	Madam President, I would like Yes, the minister in question says that it is easy to base your entire view of the state of affairs on an individual article in a newspaper. When such tasks come to light, you have to take them seriously, but you also have to get to the bottom of them. This is of course about very important values, namely how our children and students in the Swedish school are doing. There is a lot of evidence that things are going better, if not good enough– we want all students to go through the school with approved results, and we are not really there. However, when such doubts or doubts do exist, it is important to do as my colleague, Minister of Education Anna Ekström does, namely to ask those who draw up the regulations and carry out the test to carry out an independent review to see whether this is the case or whether the data are not correct. I think it is better to start from a proper review so that it is done seriously, because these are basically very important issues.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-516	Madam President, I would like My question concerns the situation in the border regions of Sweden and is well addressed today to Minister Baylan. Madam President, I would like During the coronapandemy, Swedish citizens, Swedish companies and the entire Swedish economy have been severely affected by border closures and entry bans in our neighbouring countries. It has obviously hit the border regions in Skåne, in the counties along the Norwegian border and in Norrbotten. Today, another manslaughter battle came when the Finnish Government announced that it will open the borders with the rest of the Nordic and Baltic countries – but not with Sweden. We can expect similar information in the coming week about how Norway and Denmark intend to act. My question to the Government is: How will the government work to remove these restrictions and closed borders, so that we can return to a normal situation where people, goods and trade can move across borders in the Nordic countries?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-519	Madam President, I would like I think we should remember that the situation described by Magnus Ek applies in principle in all countries, in Europe and globally, for a very simple reason: that we have a global pandemic. When the pandemic broke out, it put a lot of people in difficult situations. We all know the examples of Swedish tourists who suddenly became without hotel rooms and lacked the possibility of communication. We had to help bring them home. This, of course, has taken the form of various restrictions affecting the economy of all countries. Basically, it is a question of having a discussion on how we can open these borders in a secure way. Such dialogue is, of course, ongoing with our neighbours, but also within the European Union. The European Commission has announced its intention to ensure that all border barriers are removed within the European Union and within the internal market. I think that is the kind of approach that is basically the best.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-523	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. We know that Swedish innovation leads to growth. It was very pleasing to read that the Swedish Patent and Registration Office published in March the statement that Sweden is the highest in Europe when it comes to patent applications. Sweden is also good at bringing innovations to the market. In short, Swedish startups and Swedish scaleups are very successful. At the same time, we know that Swedish startups and Swedish scaleups operate in a global highly competitive market. We know that they are central to Swedish growth – they have been, are, and will be, in the future. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is how we can strengthen the small and innovative companies in Sweden and, above all, how we can use Almi Invest during the crisis.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-526	Madam President, I would like What Mathias Tegnér says is correct – we belong to those countries in Europe, perhaps in the world, which have the greatest innovation power. Thus we also have a lot of startups and companies that hopefully will become scaleups. One area that is of course highly topical during the Corona crisis is the life science sector, where Sweden really makes a strong comeback. But I am very concerned about the opportunities for small and innovative companies to fund themselves, especially as there are some input from private operators who are usually involved in investing at an early stage. It is against this background that the government has provided both increased loan opportunities via Almi and now most recently an additional 400 million to Almi Invest to help with these small and innovative companies, which properly managed can be tomorrow's Astra Zeneca. We will continue to work closely with these companies and ensure that we can support them.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-530	Madam President, I would like The government, through media campaigns, has demanded that the regions increase the number of corona tests to 100,000 per week. At the same time, the government knew that ordered equipment needed to do this had not even come within the country's borders. The demands of Hallengren were impossible to meet. But there the government's responsibility for the situation seems to end. After all, the test equipment had been ordered, even if it got stuck abroad. Instead of taking responsibility for the lack of protective equipment in the care of the elderly or the failure to achieve the target of the number of tests, the government blames its corona strategy fiasco on the regions and municipalities. My question to Minister Baylan is: Why did the government engage in media play about testing requirements, although it knew that this was impossible for the regions to meet?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-534	Madam President, I would like In March we entered the greatest and deepest crisis we have seen in modern times, the pandemic that we are still in the midst of. I believe that, in a very uncertain situation, everyone, both government and regions, municipalities and private companies, has done their best to mitigate the effects and protect citizens. It is about saving human lives but also mitigating the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. Gradually, we have both identified and corrected a number of shortcomings. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt talks about the problems of testing. They are among the problems where we did not get as far as we would have liked. Instead of pointing fingers at a situation where we are still in the midst of a pandemic, I think it is important that these problems are addressed step by step. It is against this background that my colleague Lena Hallengren is working with regions and others and has added additional resources so that we can get the testing started to the level we want to protect the citizens.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-537	Madam President, I would like I ask my question in my capacity as both a border resident and a member of the Nordic Council. During the time when we have had closed borders in the Nordic countries, I have had several talks with Minister Hallberg, who is our Minister for the Nordic Region. She says that the conversations she has with her colleagues around the Nordic region are positive and constructive. She's positive about the future. At lunch today there was a news flash showing that Finland will open its borders, but not against Sweden. If this with the closed borders will continue, we will suffer billions of losses, which the Government was aware of in its response to Magnus Ek. There'll be bankruptcies. But we also have a social aspect, with families and families that are divided, friendships that are affected and associations that do not work. Finland's decision points to Sweden's solid failure. We are treated like something you don't want to touch with pliers once. What will the government do? How will the government switch up to counter this? We need open borders.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-542	Madam President, I would like We are conducting a very close dialogue with our neighbours to try to find solutions to some of the real challenges we all have with the coronapndemine, but also to get rid of some misunderstandings. The latter applies, for example, to the border region between Skåne and Denmark. We know that the spread of infection has been much greater in Själland than in Skåne. Have there been objective reasons for such border barriers? No, maybe not. It is against this background that we are trying to conduct this dialogue, so that we get the transparency that I think we all benefit from in the long run. As I said earlier, we are also conducting this dialogue within the European Union. After all, we are in the same Union with common rules. Just as Finland was flashed, there has also been news that the EU intends to remove all border barriers within the Union as early as next week.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-544	Madam President, I would like Once a year, the Swedish Parliament debates arms exports. We are now discussing the letter that the government sends us every year on the basis of what has happened to Swedish arms exports during the previous year. If you want a picture of how much the Left Party cares about this issue, you can see that the position of the majority of committees is on three sides, while only the Left Party's opinion is on four sides. In addition, you can add a nine-page motion and a number of debate articles on the subject. So today is the time for the debate on arms exports. Let's start by checking what has happened to Swedish arms exports in 2019. Swedish arms exports have risen very strongly. The letter shows that last year Swedish arms exports increased by 40 per cent and that Swedish companies exported war equipment worth SEK 16.3 billion. One can see this in a longer perspective – a compilation of Svenska Freds shows that during 2019 arms exports were more than five times as large as in the early 2000s. As early as 2011, in the light of the repression of democracy fighters during the Arab Spring, the Government was commissioned by the Riksdag to develop a new armaments legislation in order to strengthen arms exports to dictatorships. Only seven years later, in April 2018, the new legislation entered into force. 2019 is the first full year that the legislation has been in force. Unfortunately, the result of the new legislation is very disappointing. Swedish exports to dictatorships are increasing. Exports to dictatorships currently account for one third of Swedish arms exports. It can be seen without great difficulty that the new legislation is a failure in relation to what it wanted to achieve in 2011. Then why did this happen? It is above all a question of the fact that the new legislation has two major gaps. The first gap is that the new regulatory framework only applies to new business concluded after 15 April 2018. Any business that is considered to be connected to a business that was granted before the democratic criterion came into force can be classified as old business. Therefore, consequential deliveries may escape new trials. Successive deliveries can range from spare parts to ammunition but also completely new systems based on previous systems that have been delivered. Follow-up deliveries have no time limit and can continue indefinitely. There are now successive deliveries that apply to things that Sweden originally delivered 30 to 40 years ago. Successive deliveries have long been one of the biggest loopholes in Swedish export legislation. This means that exports can continue despite the fact that no new deals are allowed. The second gap in the new legislation is that it does not stop exports to non-democratic states, but it will be an assessment of the democratic status that will affect whether they constitute an obstacle to exports. If significant national defence or security policy interests are considered to exist, export may nevertheless be granted. The position not to support and legitimise undemocratic and oppressive regimes can thus be ignored if there are other interests that are considered to weigh more heavily in the assessment. The fact that Sweden's policy on arms exports and foreign policy is filled with double standards has been known for a long time. With the presentation of exports last year, it becomes even clearer that Sweden uses beautiful words about peace and human rights while providing various conflicts with plenty of weapons. It is under all criticism that the legislation that it took seven years to work out does not seem to have contributed to a reduction in Swedish arms exports to belligerent and undemocratic countries, as the purpose was, but exactly the opposite. There is therefore a need for a thorough evaluation of the regulatory framework. It is good if it can be done as soon as possible. Since 2015, there has been a terrible war in Yemen. According to the UNHCR, more than 80 percent of the population are in need of some form of humanitarian aid, and almost 4 million people live on the run because of the war. Last year, Sweden exported arms to five of the warring countries of Yemen, namely Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Jordan, Kuwait and Bahrain. All these states are to be regarded as authoritarian states that violate human rights. The countries are demonstrably involved in an armed conflict and thus meet all the criteria for not being granted export of Swedish armaments. Swedish armaments are used in the war in Yemen. Saab's battle command and radar system Erieye helps maintain the blockade that prevents supplies from reaching the civilian population. The exports of Saab's Globaleye system, which is a successor to Erieye, to the United Arab Emirates should have been stopped but instead counted as a consequent delivery. Globaleye increases the Saudi coalition's ability to maintain the blockade, and Swedish exports contribute to the suffering of the Yemeni people. Paragraph 70 of the January Agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party states that the principle of the four parties is not to approve arms export transactions with non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni military conflict as long as it continues. The expression principled approach has caused some confusion, and different representatives of different January parties have given very different answers. The principled approach is therefore very unclear. On p. 5 of the Government's letter, it states that arms exports to these Arab countries should not be authorised, and on p. 6, it states that the United Arab Emirates is the third largest country in terms of our exports. This, Madam President, is nothing more than hypocrisy, in my view. The Left Party believes that the January parties must live up to their own agreement, assume their humanitarian responsibility and stop arms exports to the United Arab Emirates, Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. In 2019 it turned out that it is actually possible to stop arms exports to a country if there really is a political will, and that is very positive. In mid-October last year, Sweden stopped all arms exports to Turkey because of its military offensive against Syria. In the debate, it often sounds like there is no possibility of influencing business, but the truth is that ISP has several different possibilities to stop arms dealings and refer the trial to the government, which in the end is always responsible for Swedish arms exports. When Turkey attacked the Kurdish-dominated area of Rojava in north-eastern Syria last year, the EU condemned Turkey's actions on Swedish initiative. At the same time, the EU countries were not prepared to go as far in the actions against Turkey as the Swedish parliament and government were. Instead of an arms embargo on Turkey, the EU agreed to recommend its Member States to review their military exports. Some countries, including Sweden, stopped all their arms exports to Turkey while other countries continued with theirs. Turkey's military action in Syria is still ongoing, and the humanitarian disaster is enormous. Sweden should therefore continue to promote an EU-wide arms embargo on Turkey. In Trumps's United States there have been big steps towards an increasingly polarized and reactionary nation. We are very concerned about the political developments in the great Western country. The Left Party believes that it is high time for a real review, in a restrictive direction, of Swedish arms exports to the United States. That is the country to which we exported the second most weapons last year. If we look at it from a longer perspective, a nearly 30-year perspective, the United States is the country to which we have exported the most weapons. Military forces have already been set up to strike demonstrators who are protesting against the repression of blacks and widespread police violence. We cannot export weapons to an unstable and moody political leadership, I mean. Swedish arms exports rhyme badly with the declared feminist ambitions in foreign policy. In wars and disasters, women and children are the hardest hit. Inequality between men and women is strengthened and women are excluded from decision-making processes. The number of child marriages is increasing, as is sexual violence. Women and children on the run are at great risk of rape and sexual slavery. When political leaders in hard hit countries choose to invest money in weapons and other armaments, there will be less money left to invest in health care, education and other welfare that leads to reduced poverty and greater equality. The Left Party wants Sweden to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy and popular rule, a country that actively works for peace and disarmament, and a country that condemns any violation of human rights. Sweden has every opportunity to be such a voice, but that requires us to stop arming authoritarian regimes, countries that are in war and states that commit gross and extensive violations of human rights. If we do not, the credibility of our work on human rights, disarmament, peace and gender equality will be reduced. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-568	Madam President, I would like In the letter sent by the Government to Parliament, which is the basis of the report we are debating, the Government sets out its policy on strategic export control in 2019, namely the export control of war material and dual-use items. The term dual-use items, PDA, refers to objects manufactured for civilian use, which can also be used for the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction or war material. The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes, as in the previous report, that the defence industry has long been a central part of the Swedish security and defence policy. Armaments exports strengthen the Swedish defence industry's ability to maintain a high, competitive level of technology and thereby the competence required to maintain and maintain the Swedish Armed Forces' equipment system. It is important to remember this background to why we are exporting weapons at all. An internationally competitive technology level also contributes to Sweden remaining an interesting country for international cooperation and means better opportunities for Sweden to influence international export control cooperation. It is in Sweden's security policy interest to safeguard long-term and continuous cooperation on material issues with a number of traditional partner countries, which is based on both export and import of war material. It is about 35 years since the government first made a letter of this kind to Parliament to explain its policy in the field of export control. The very first letter on strategic export control was submitted in 1985. Sweden was then among the first in Europe to account for the past year's activity in this area. Since then, the letter has evolved from a brief compilation of Swedish arms exports to a comprehensive account of Swedish export control policy in its entirety. More statistical data can now be provided thanks to better information processing systems and more transparent policies. In parallel with the Swedish accounts, the EU Member States have since 2000 gradually developed a common and detailed report. The Government continuously strives for increased transparency in the area of export control. In this year's letter, further improvements have been made in accordance with the bill Strengthened Export Control of Armaments. The declaration of armaments has been extended with facts that have not been published in the past and has been re-structured in order to make them more accessible in a better and more transparent way. Another innovation is that the Strategic Product Inspection, ISP, in Annex 3 of the Government's letter gives its own view on important trends in Swedish and international export control. In addition to contributing to parliamentary transparency in Sweden's export control policy, this letter from the Government aims to provide a basis for a broader discussion on issues related to export control of war material and dual-use items. Madam President, I would like In 2019 58 countries and the EU received supplies of armaments from Sweden. Four of the countries only received hunting and shooting equipment. It was about Andorra, Malta, Namibia and Zambia. The value of arms exports in 2019 was approximately SEK 16.3 billion, which was an increase of good 40 per cent since the previous year. The increase concerned exports to both established partner countries and to the rest of the world. Behind this seemingly large increase lies the closure or execution of large deals that have been signed before, but it is when they are delivered and paid that they come into the statistics. The distribution by region of the world is similar to that of previous years. It's pretty stable. By far the largest recipient country for Swedish arms exports in 2019 was Brazil, just like the two previous years, with just over SEK 3 billion. It is mainly linked to continued deliveries of the fighter aircraft that is Swedish-developed and Swedish-produced – JAS Gripen. Together with Brazil, the United States, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan and India were major recipient countries. What was delivered to the United Arab Emirates is about Globaleye, a radar reconnaissance system. It was a deal that was already approved in 2016, i.e. in the old export control legislation. It shows little of the timescales involved in permit cases, delivery and when these really become statistics. It is a long process to sell war material, especially when it comes to large-scale transactions that have a very large turnover. Swedish arms export legislation is strict, probably one of the most stringent in the world. It also has a normative effect on other countries and their exports. The report is very open compared to other countries. Few countries have such a public debate and as much public interest in arms exports as we have in Sweden. In fact, there is an unusually high level of commitment to arms export issues in Sweden. When I meet other politicians around Europe and other parts of the world, they are a little surprised at how much debate and how much openness we have on these issues in Sweden. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in its report UU11.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-580	Madam President, I would like The Arab spring began in 2011, and it was with horror that many of us heard reports about how democracy activists were brutally suppressed and killed in the protests that were then taking place around the Arab world. The Social Democrats were one of the parties that initiated and supported a review of Swedish arms exports in order to limit the possibilities for exports to dictatorships and authoritarian states so that there could not be the kind of terror against democracy activists that took place during the Arab spring. The review was established during the bourgeois government in 2012, but it took an incredibly long time before it became a bill to the Riksdag. It didn't come until 2018. The Social Democratic Government would then have had four years to present it. In 2016, Globaleye, or predecessor Erieye, was approved for the United Arab Emirates. When we debated this issue last year, Kenneth Forslund called it a delicate question in relation to paragraph 70 that we should not export to the countries participating in the Saudi-led coalition. A year later, here we are. Kenneth G. Forslund still says that we have the strictest arms exports worldwide. At the same time, the Social Democracy has completely betrayed the Yemeni people by not putting an end to an arms export that they wanted to stop back in 2011. I wonder how the hell this goes together. Why don't you even follow your own general agreement, Kenneth G. Forslund?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-585	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Håkan Svenneling. Yes, it is undoubtedly a delicate question. This product is a radar system. It is not something you shoot with, but there is no doubt that using that system you aim and shoot better. That's it. This deal started before the new legislation. We must realise that we are going to have a situation here for many years to come where it takes time for the new legislation with a stricter democracy criterion to have an effect on a large part of our exports. We have to face up to that. Anything else would not be possible. If we begin to change the rules for things that we have already approved, we will not be credible as a selling party in the world. I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling two questions. Which country has stricter arms export rules than Sweden has? One of the reasons why we have arms exports is that we should also be able to afford to equip our own defence forces. The Left Party is the party that wants to spend the least money on the defence of the eight parties in parliament. It is not an attitude that goes with the ambition of the Left Party. That ambition is deep down to stop arms exports altogether. Shouldn't it be the case that the Left Party is the party that wants to spend the most money on the Swedish defence, given that you don't want any arms exports and thus much more expensive war material for the Swedish Armed Forces?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-590	Madam President, I would like Kenneth G. Forslund points out the historical perspectives and says that this report has been presented for 35 years. The report is as old as I am. This means that if successive deliveries are allowed under the new legislation, it will happen when I retire. The other parties will have raised the retirement age to 70 when it is time for me to retire. Then, at last, the legislation we decided on in 2018 will have a bearing on the actual report. Then, for the first time, we will see that we are not delivering to dictatorships in the Arab region, as we can see today in the Middle East. This is the problem with Swedish arms legislation. It is not strict at all that I can go from being born to being a Member of Parliament to retiring before there is even a strict application of the legislation. This is worryingly long-term, given that the world is often changing very quickly. When it comes to identifying a country with more strict legislation than Sweden, I would like to point out a country that I do not think Kenneth G. Forslund would think I would choose, namely the United States. In the United States there is a demand for Congress to be notified at every type of arms export. There is a committee of its own which approves all arms exports. There President Trump has bypassed the law to deliver weapons to Saudi Arabia. A Social Democratic government in Sweden does not have to bypass the Riksdag because it is perfectly okay to say yes to consequential deliveries as long as you have delivered some parts before the new arms legislation came into place. I definitely believe that we need to strengthen the Swedish defence. But it should be clear that Globaleye and Erieye are not used by the Swedish defence. There is no Swedish interest in developing more precision in the way we now see as an export product to conflicts in India and Pakistan, the Yemeni war and other conflicts around the world. I'm worried we're pumping the world full of guns.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-596	Madam President, I would like You get a little stunned – that's why I'm starting to say things in the wrong order – when left-wingist Håkan Svenneling's example of arms exports is the United States. It is hardly a country that anyone else is associated with restrictive arms export legislation or, in practice, restrictive arms exports. There is a tendency for American weapons to appear in the most surprising places where we would rather not see any weapons at all. That was an amazing example. Yeah, it'll take time. Foreign and security policy is perhaps not the best policy area for the most impatient of us in politics. I'll admit it. It takes time, and it's very long processes. I share to some extent Håkan Svenneling's frustration about this. There are many things in foreign and security policy that I think are taking far too long. I could stand here all day and list conflicts of various kinds and other things that we have been struggling with for decades and for centuries without the world having solved them. Swedish arms export legislation is tough and restrictive. It should continue to be. We also have a relatively transparent accounting of exports, and we have a relatively very lively debate that contributes to its scrutiny. That's good. I welcome the review, and we shall continue to have it.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-599	Madam President, I would like It has been said before, and it will be said many times again; the world is not always a very beautiful place. But it is still our job to relate to this place and make the best of the situation when instability, uncertainty and conflict prevail in our environment. The ability to defend ourselves against malicious attacks is the duty we have to ourselves, our loved ones and even people living in other parts of the world. Sweden's defence capabilities are linked to our ability to have a high degree of self-sufficiency in war material. The ability to defend oneself in the best way presupposes that Sweden as a country has the material needed to fulfil that particular task. Being independent in the capacity to defend our country also means that we have a responsibility to provide ourselves with the necessary equipment and equipment. It holds down costs, and it means that we have control over the equipment that will then be used on the day it is required. In order to fulfil this task, it is necessary that Sweden, as a small and independent country, also shares its defence capabilities. This means that the export of military equipment must be possible in order to strengthen our independence and also strengthen our defence capabilities. Madam President, I would like Sweden's arms industry must have access to other markets than the Swedish industry alone for this model to work. It must be done with responsibility, and it must be done in a well-thought-out way. Therefore, the defence industry has long been a central part of the Swedish security and defence policy. Armaments exports strengthen the Swedish defence industry's ability to also maintain a high and competitive level of technology. An internationally competitive technology level also contributes to Sweden remaining an interesting country to cooperate internationally with. It is in Sweden's security policy's interest to safeguard long-term and continuous cooperation on material matters with a number of traditional partner countries, which means both exports and imports of war material. This also means better opportunities for Sweden to influence international export control cooperation. It is therefore for this reason that Sweden has chosen, for foreign, security and defence policy reasons, to allow to some extent the export of armaments. Ultimately, the aim is to safeguard Sweden's long-term security. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that Sweden should have strict export control legislation with close monitoring and follow-up. We believe that the best thing would be a universal, legally binding treaty that strengthens the control of conventional arms trade globally. It represents the most effective way to combat the cross-border illegal arms trade, which in many parts of the world breeds armed conflict and instability. We also want to see increased demands on the world's countries to make the necessary laws, create adequate control instruments and establish and strengthen the authorities of the countries responsible for that control. The Swedish export control of armaments has relatively recently been reviewed in a parliamentary committee, with the result that legislation is in place where a democracy criterion has been introduced. It's important. It was urgent that a complex issue be resolved in broad political agreement. The agreement has created long-term conditions for industry and clear rules for countries and companies trading with Sweden. Export control means that war material can only be exported to recipient countries that are acceptable to Sweden. It is also important for the material supply of the Swedish defence. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the proposal.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-609	Madam President, I would like Yes, this is about strategic export control. Swedish armaments are not just an item. It is a prohibition law that is presented here. There is an opportunity to make exceptions. However, permits may only be granted if the exit or cooperation is necessary to meet the needs of the Swedish repository for material or know-how, or if there is otherwise a security policy interest and if this does not conflict with the principles and objectives of Sweden's foreign policy. That is the basis for making an exception to the ban. Swedish security policy, Swedish security, is of course crucial in the trial. As early as 1996, the trial was transferred from the government. Some countries still have their government offices as decision-making bodies. However, there is a special authority, the ISP, whose Director-General has to make decisions after consulting an export control council with the possibility of handing over important matters in principle to the government for decision. It is a very special situation, because it is political decisions taken by this authority and its Director-General. Political positions have been delegated to the Authority. In this case, a statement of this is now made by the government in its letter. As has emerged from previous debates, we have had new legislation for two years. It is legislation that comes with a contribution: Make the report clearer to the Riksdag! We now have a second letter after we got new legislation, and I think that if you compare it, you can see more in this letter and that it is clearer than the letters that existed with the old legislation. There is reason for the Riksdag to pay attention to this. We have a desire to increase transparency and transparency. This is something that it is important for the government to take note of when it continues to develop this letter, which signals its intention to do. The letter now also provides for advance rulings. I think that there is reason for the House to draw attention to this, because in this case we have the opportunity at an early stage of the matter – it is not the green light, but it is a matter – of prior notification. This does not mean the go-ahead to the tendering procedure, and it does not mean the go-ahead for exit. We have a piece of armaments legislation that is being taken in several stages. Advance notice is not so clear, for natural reasons. There are advance rulings that are positive, but there are also negative advance rulings. It is part of this legislation and part of Swedish security policy and foreign policy that everything cannot be written in such an annex. It is important, I think, that Members have that insight. Not everything is what is apparent from actual exports, which is what you usually look at when you say. Look! Now you've sold for so much and so much, and now you've sold to them and those countries. There are also some other things, before. I also think that there is reason to note that we have chosen to maintain that not everything is war material for combat. We also have other war equipment, which can be clothes or Scania trucks or whatever it may be. Quite often there are valves for dairies and other things that are needed. It can be seen that to the Middle East in 2019 is the actual export of war material for combat zero. On the other hand, there are exports of other armaments. There's a difference in that case. It is easy to see only part of the whole, but it is important to look at the depth of such a complex matter in order to understand how offensive our armaments legislation is anyway. I have the opportunity to try this on a number of horizons, Madam President, both in this House and as one of the members of the E xport control Council. This, of course, is also an important task. I wish I could be clearer and tell you more here. We are not in a position to do so because it is confidential. But I can assure you that what we are saying here, we are saying that there too. Then I have not said too much in this context, but it is still a signal to heed to the doubter. With that, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-619	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its report UU11. The Christian Democrats are in favour of a strong domestic defence industry. We see that the defence industry over the years has been an important part of Swedish military capabilities and security policy and needs to be so in the future as well. The defence industry must therefore continue to have the necessary conditions to be viable and technologically world-leading. If Sweden is to have a strong defence and be able to defend freedom and democracy, it must be ensured that the material available provides the necessary military capability. That this requires arms exports is the industry and most parties here in Parliament agreed on. At the same time, as we have heard, there is broad political support for the strong restrictions on arms exports from our country. The Christian Democrats have long been opposed to the export of arms to dictatorships and countries that systematically violate human rights. For this reason, we supported the agreement on new legislation in this area concluded a few years ago, which tightened up the export control of war material. The agreement clearly states that respect for human rights and the democratic status of the recipient country shall be central to any authorisation process. These wordings were the result of strong pressure from, among others, the Christian Democrats and, in practice, the need for defence exports is now being weighed against a democracy criterion. Sweden has thus become more restrictive in terms of the countries to which it is exporting, and that is very welcome. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' assessment is that the broad agreement that we have been able to reach will have significance in the future. There are positive signs of this already today. For example, exports to countries in the Middle East and North Africa carried out last year concerned only consequential supplies of other armaments. With regard to exports to the United Arab Emirates, it is important to underline what has been said here: that it was mainly about the complementary acquisition of the aircraft-borne radar Globaleye. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, no new business has been approved since 2013. Most of the exports last year went to the United States, Brazil and EU countries, not to dictatorships and countries where human rights are systematically violated. On a number of occasions during this term of office, the Christian Democrats have supported demands to completely stop arms exports to certain countries. This possibility exists. This has been true of Turkey, following the military attack on Kurdish-dominated areas in eastern Syria. It has concerned Saudi Arabia, with reference to the warfare in Yemen and the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. With regard to Saudi in particular, we think that Sweden should have acted like Germany, which clearly declared that its arms exports could not continue as if nothing had happened. Madam President, I would like Exports of military and defence equipment are an ethical issue which must of course be taken very seriously. Therefore, Sweden's need for arms exports should always be weighed against the democracy criterion and the requirement for compliance with human rights.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-628	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Foreign Affairs Committee's report No 11, Strategic Export Control 2019 – dual-use armaments and items. It concerns the government's letter on strategic export control, which sets out the export control policy and describes the exports that have occurred and to which countries and how much money is involved and so on. It is important that we emphasise the various aspects, because this is a fairly broad issue. The fact that we have a defence force and a defence industry is, by the way, important for our own security and democracy. That is, of course, the most central part of this. This is of course also particularly important because Sweden has for a long time chosen to remain outside military alliances such as NATO. The defence industry has therefore played an important role for the Swedish Armed Forces for a long time. It is also an important issue for the Swedish economy. It is about many jobs, industrial technology and the development of high-tech products and processes. This means that synergies are created with other parts of the Swedish economy and other industries, such as the automotive industry. It is therefore also an important part for Swedish business. Of course, it is also about our foreign policy, security policy and defence policy interests. Sweden is in alliance with other free states in the world, and we must be able to have military cooperation with them and be able to export and import war material from other countries. However, this should be controlled, and we should not sell war material to anyone; it goes without saying. No one wants to do that either, I think. The Liberals have long demanded that Swedish armaments legislation be strictly regulated and have clear control bodies. There must be a comprehensive report from the Government, and the Riksdag must manage its control power. Sweden should not sell arms to countries that are dictatorial, and that should be clear in terms of human rights. Our party, together with several other parties in the Riksdag, has long demanded this. It took many years to push this issue forward, and two years ago new legislation came into force. For me, it would have been happy to come a few years earlier, but at least we got a stronger piece of legislation. The legislation is still fresh, which is why it is difficult to see clear patterns. But we can see that, in any case, new export permits have not been issued to some of the worst villains in the world. However, as mentioned by previous speakers, there are successive deliveries, previous contracts and so on, but they are quite few in number. After all, stricter legislation is better than less stringent legislation, and now the Swedish Parliament must assume its responsibility for this legislation and ensure that it is followed up so that what was Parliament's intention is followed up and becomes a reality. I support the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-637	Madam President, I would like Week 41 last year was a good week in Swedish politics. Both Fredrik Malm and I think so. At that time, Sweden stopped all arms exports to Turkey on my initiative and to Malm. On the Monday of the following week, the ISP decided to withdraw already granted permits for exports to Turkey and clearly indicated that it was not going to grant any new ones after the statements made by Parliament, the Government and the EU. The government condemned Turkey's attack on Rojava in north-east Syria after the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee had pressed on. Parliament's statement stood for the Foreign Affairs Committee in its position to the EU Foreign Affairs Council, the FAC. Based on, among other things, Parliament's position, the FAC then decided to clearly condemn Turkey's attack, which led to ISP's decision. Week 41 last year was therefore a good week, both because a wise decision was made and because it showed that, if you want, arms exports to countries that commit major, serious crimes can be stopped quickly by starting wars against other countries. I wonder if there are other countries, like Turkey, that have developed in a dictatorial direction to which Fredrik Malm wants to stop arms exports.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-641	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is that there can certainly be. The question of democracy and dictatorship becomes simple if you look at such a regime as North Korea, which is clearly dictatorial. If the regime in Turkey or any other country with clear authoritarian features is rapidly exacerbating a situation or if there is internal unrest in a state, we must, of course, be able to take action. That is exactly what Håkan Svenneling and I fought for and also got support for at the Swedish government when Turkey entered Rojava. This is part of the foreign policy toolbox. It may also be the case that it is in Sweden's foreign and security policy interests to introduce a stop. At the same time, we have in the second balance, which we will never escape, that we cannot just tear up agreements and terminate things retroactively in any case in our international relations. Temporary suspensions can be introduced, and so on, in different situations, but it is not certain that agreements that have run for many years can be cancelled at all times. This must be taken into account. The simple answer to the question is yes.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-645	Madam President, I would like It would be interesting if Fredrik Malm could name some states where he sees that we should have a discussion if we can stop arms exports. It'll be obvious. It is said that arms exports should be stopped and that this is the principled approach in paragraph 70 of the January Agreement, and then we see that there has actually been no halt to arms exports without the consequential deliveries contributing to countries being able to get on the top-three list of the countries to which they export the most. We see that one third of Swedish arms exports still go to dictatorships. We need to think somewhere about whether we can have more and faster measures to do more. I would like to hear a little more clarity from Fredrik as to which countries one might consider stopping arms exports to.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-648	Madam President, I would like One concrete answer is that legislation was tightened up two years ago, and when I read the letter from the government and look at the list in the tables further back of countries to which we export, I see that no new export licences or permits have been granted to a number of serious criminal states to which Sweden has previously granted new permits. The legislation, at least in that part, has obviously made some difference, I think it is. As I said in my speech, we have high ambitions for restrictive legislation with clear control mechanisms, in which democracy and human rights should be taken into account in the assessments and weigh heavily. This legislation obliges. It obliges the government to be transparent and transparent in its accounts. It obliges the Riksdag to carry out its task as a supervisory authority. It also obliges individual politicians serving in the Export Control Council. Now we do not know how they have voted there. I am not sitting there myself, but it also obliges them so that the parties do not say a thing in front of the television cameras or in the speaker's chair and then say something else in closed meetings where there is secrecy. This undermines the intentions of the legislation.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-650	Madam President, I would like Swedish weapons in the hands of the wrong people do not kill humanely more than other weapons. It is a fact that must be the starting point for the policy and control of arms exports carried out in Sweden. I hope that it is clear to everyone in this House what I and the Green Party want with Swedish arms exports. We want it to decrease, that Sweden should never export weapons to dictatorships and that control should be rock hard. We have been doing this since the founding of the Green Party, and we have brought it into every negotiating room. The work has produced results, but much is still ahead of us. During the previous term of office, the Green Party and the government pushed through a tightening up of the Swedish regulations for arms exports. The change came into force in April 2018 and was requested from several sources. The new legislation has meant, among other things, that the democratic status of the recipient countries is now central to the examination of whether exports should be allowed, and a greater focus is placed on the country's compliance with human rights. Madam President, I would like The letter we are debating here today is important and important in itself. It is of the utmost importance that a report on Swedish exports of armaments be made openly and transparently, and that is a line that we are also pursuing towards other states. All activities of this type need to be reviewed and each part shown in the seams. To make this possible, letters and statements are required, just as we are now dealing with. It is essential that reporting and reporting are done clearly, openly and honestly in Sweden, the EU and the rest of the world. Madam President, I would like Right now, one of the world's worst humanitarian crises is going on in Yemen. People are driven on the run under appalling conditions, and the lack of food causes children to starve to death. Sweden's and the government's commitment to the Yemeni conflict is broad and far-reaching. During our time in the UN Security Council, the issue was raised several times, and Sweden has taken an active role in the attempts to mediate in the conflict. Now is the time to state clearly that Sweden's weapons have nothing to do in the hands of the warring parties. Paragraph 70 of the January Agreement is clear and shall be implemented. We should not approve arms export deals to non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni military conflict as long as the conflict continues. This attitude must now be translated into action at all levels. It is nothing but decency, and for the Green Party it is clear that consequential deliveries should not be allowed either. We see that the deliveries made in recent years due to past transactions should be covered by the January agreement, and we have made this more than clear to our partners. Madam President, I would like Swedish exports of armaments shall be characterised by respect for human rights, transparency, strict requirements and transparency. This is my clear direction and that of the government. The time to stand up for international solidarity is now.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-660	Madam President, I would like Before the vote, Maria Gardfjell gave a fire speech, one may call it, for paragraph 70 of the January Agreement. It has been speaking for this debate that it was only Maria Gardfjell from the Green Party who gave a fire speech for paragraph 70. I do not think that much was done by social democrats, liberals and center parties. One might wonder why the Green Party chooses to keep this brand speech for a point that they themselves know is not even fulfilled and says that consequential deliveries should of course be included, when they know that consequential deliveries have not been included in practice in paragraph 70. What has happened is that the Social Democrats have interpreted paragraph 70 just like the new export legislation, that it is possible to stop some supplies to some countries to which they have previously exported but that it is possible to continue with successive deliveries. I therefore wonder whether the Green Party is really satisfied that Global Eye is being delivered to the United Arab Emirates, which means that the Saudi-led coalition has a stronger opportunity to maintain the blockade in Yemen? No matter how many beautiful words are spoken and how many peace negotiators are sent, it still means that the Saudi-led coalition is fighting better in Yemen thanks to Swedish weapons. Is the Green Party satisfied that arms exports in Sweden are increasing by 40 percent and that the proportion going to dictatorships is increasing from a quarter to a third? Apart from the fact that the United Arab Emirates are on the top 3 of the list of countries to which Sweden exports the most, the whole of all dictatorships will still account for one third of all exports. This really is in many ways a failure for the Green Party – from the beautiful words to what actually happens in reality. I wonder if the Green Party feels that paragraph 70 became the superpoint of which one was so proud. This was taken out as its great victory on January 20 last year. I wouldn't keep it quite as solemn as Maria Gardfjell does.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-665	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! This is my debut in a foreign policy debate, so it feels good to also warm up directly with some questions. I think the question of the January agreement is a good one. The point is indeed extremely important. As I said, the January Agreement will be implemented even if not all the points in it have yet been implemented. Several areas take time to come up with, and this point is one. Madam President, I would like I listened carefully to the debate earlier when Kenneth G. Forslund spoke and when Håkan Svenneling had a change of line with him. Håkan Svenneling then claimed something astounding, namely that the USA was an example for all countries in the world in terms of arms exports. After all, the United States is the worst giant of all arms exporters in the world, and among the three largest US exporting countries are both Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. So this is the model of the Left Party when it comes to arms exports in the world. I would say that Sweden is better. How can the Left Party claim that America is a role model?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-669	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell will have to go back and read the minutes. I said that the USA is an example when it comes to parliamentary control. It's them. The United States has a committee that needs to be notified when they're exporting. They have clearer parliamentary control than Sweden, I mean. We have a committee that controls exports, but it's secret. They can't tell me what they're doing, what they're saying or what's in their minutes, not even to me who's a Member of Parliament. This means that Swedish parliamentary control is less transparent than the American one. This does not mean, however, that the United States does not export arms cross-border and heavily and not always according to its own legislation. They do. They are certainly not an example in terms of arms exports. But I dare say that they have better parliamentary control. The major problem with the Green Party and paragraph 70 is that, during the year and a half since the agreement was reached on the ground, no initiatives have been taken to ensure that paragraph 70 is complied with. It will soon be summer, and we are in the middle of the term of office. It's the Green Party's second term of government. It takes time to implement the January Agreement. Now we have two years to take the initiative to comply with paragraph 70. What initiatives need to be taken? Well, you need to take a clear initiative. This is done by saying that all decisions relating to the Saudi-led coalition warring in Yemen are to be tried by the government, regardless of the types of weapons involved and whether these are consequential deliveries. It will always be tried by the government. We saw that when the government, the parliament and the EU set their foot and were clear about Turkey, all arms exports were stopped immediately. But when you are as unclear as the Green Party and the government are when it comes to exports to the Saudi-led coalition, it means that ambassadors with moderate foremarks are still running around and making deals with various arms companies in the Arab world.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-674	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is extremely clear. Paragraph 70 of the January Agreement shall be implemented. We should not approve arms export deals to non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni military conflict as long as the conflict continues. It is interesting that Mr Svenneling believes that he has so much transparency in the negotiations that are taking place between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals so that he knows what issues the Green Party is pushing in this cooperation and not. I have said here today that we are pushing ahead on these issues. The January Agreement will be implemented during this term of office. It is very interesting that the Left Party highlights the USA, this arms export giant, as its example. The largest recipient countries of US arms exports are undoubtedly Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. There is nothing wrong with having good parliamentary control. Nor, however, is it wrong to have a debate today, just as we in this House, on a letter which gives a clear, transparent and honest report on the export of arms in Sweden. It is such openness and honesty that we need, not just us in Sweden, but all the countries of the European Union and the world, in order to overcome unwanted arms exports.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-678	Madam President, I would like I support the report in its main parts, but I would like to express my support for the Conservatives' motivational reservation when it comes to the EU's energy policy. Madam President, I would like The climate challenge knows no national boundaries. It is common and global. The green hand of the European Union, which we are going to discuss today, is a clear expression of this. Human activity in the last century has caused the average temperature to rise faster than ever. Polaris are melting, and more and more extreme weather is hitting us in the form of floods, droughts and fires. Ecosystems are out of balance and the consequences are often disastrous. Sweden should take its share of the responsibility, but it is only through global action that we bring about a real change for the climate. Right now, the EU is rightly focusing on the acute crisis resulting from the coronapndemine. Life must be saved, health care sufficient and jobs and finances secured. But the future needs to be focused on creating a sustainable Europe. It is therefore unfortunate that some countries and parties want to push the green dealer. It is the EU's growth strategy where growth and climate will go hand in hand and where by 2050 the EU will have no net greenhouse gas emissions. In order to achieve the goal of a climate-neutral Europe, the Moderates believe that we need to expand the EU's emissions trading rights system, which is the world's most ambitious system for regulating CO2 emissions, so that it covers more sectors and is linked to the corresponding systems of more countries. The EU must also have an energy policy where the goal is a fossil-free energy system, not to set different fossil-free energy types against each other. Just as the UN Panel on Climate Change points out in its main scenarios for reaching global climate targets, both renewable and nuclear have an important role to play there. We need all the clean energy we can get if it is to be enough to electrify large parts of society and replace fossil fuels, which still dominate energy supply in Europe. We must also have good conditions for forestry and land. Biofuels are crucial here and now for changing the transport sector. The Moderates have been pushing for a long time for increased demands on the involvement of biofuels in both cars and aircraft. There is a great potential in more raw material from the forest, but this requires that we in Sweden can grow our forest. Several parties both in Sweden and in the EU want to impose restrictions and exempt more land and nature from being used. Then we must either import less sustainable biofuels from other countries or accept that we simply do not reach our targets. The government must also stand up for Swedish forests in Brussels. We need to sharpen the EU's climate action further. The EU is big enough to push for more vigorous climate action in the rest of the world, not least in the framework of the annual UN negotiations. The EU is therefore perhaps our most important playing field to make a difference to the climate. The objective of the Green Paper on a Europe in which economic growth has been decoupled from resource consumption is in line with what the Moderates tend to say that climate and growth must go hand in hand. We need to take this perspective into account in the implementation of this strategy. On the financial side, we support the approach of the EU budget contributing to the climate change that Europe needs, but we also want to be clear that expenditure-driven measures need to be financed through re-priorities in the Multiannual Financial Framework. The goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions in the EU by 2050 is a tightening up and the EU is approaching the Swedish target of net zero emissions in 2045, which the Moderates welcome. We want regular monitoring and evaluation to be required. The Moderates' demands for an effective and results-oriented climate policy in Sweden also apply, of course, to the European climate work. We believe that the net zero emissions target by 2050 should be achieved by all Member States, not just by the EU as a whole. Some countries should not be able to go free-riding on the hard work of others and ignore taking their share of the responsibility. And just as in Sweden, we want Member States to be able to use complementary measures in other countries to achieve the target effectively and credit these emission reductions. We also welcome the strengthening of the 2030 target. However, it is important that such a tightening up does not jeopardise Swedish and European competitiveness. If the EU sharpens its goal, it must also put great pressure on other major emitters in future UN negotiations to do the same. After all, Europe is too small to do the job alone. Madam President, I would like The Moderates support most of the committee's opinion. However, we have chosen to give a motivational reservation on the view of the EU's energy policy, on which I was concerned. As in the national debate, some parties choose to lock themselves in to a type of energy. The Moderates believe, however, that we need to take advantage of all fossil-free energy sources in order to achieve our climate goals. It is important, then, that the overall objective of European energy policy is fossil freedom – not to set energy classes against each other. The current Corona crisis reminds us of our dependence on a stable food supply. The Green Paper and, in particular, the farm-to-table approach relate to this issue. We need greater competitiveness and increased food production in Sweden and Europe. Sweden often has higher environmental standards and stronger animal protection than the rest of the EU. It is important that Sweden is the driving force because the strategy leads to other Member States meeting the same high sustainability standards as Swedish farmers. There are some formulations in the strategy from farm to table which unfortunately do not always express the need for, for example, plant protection products for more sustainable food production. The truth is that Sweden uses at least plant protection products in the EU. It is not reasonable for us to meet the same requirements for reduction as countries that have a high and inefficient use. The objective must be the responsible use of plant protection products throughout Europe that protect human health and the environment but also contribute to a safe and increased food supply. It is also important that Sweden is the driving force to modernise and make the rules around plant breeding techniques technology neutral. New technological methods and innovations will be encouraged and used to contribute to efficient agriculture and to the adaptation of agriculture to a changing climate. With regard to the biodiversity strategy, we need to protect biodiversity, so that nature can resist and recover from pressures without taking serious harm. At the same time, the implementation of the strategy must not further restrict national self-determination, and the implementation of the EU Nature Conservation Directives must take into account the sometimes very different national contexts and take socio-economic considerations into account. It is also important that the strategy does not lead to additional constraints on forestry and that economic and social sustainability aspects are removed. It is important that the forest strategy is not subordinated to the biodiversity strategy. To replace fossil products with more climate-smart and sustainable products, to build more wood and to use more biofuels in our road and air transport, raw materials from the forest are needed. Finally, I would like to say that the European Union is rightly focusing here and now on emergency measures. But the green man is the age of rule to hold, parallel to and beyond the acute crisis, and we should not accept that countries or parties want to delay the important work. At the same time, the implementation of the green man must do exactly what he says he wants to achieve: create a climate-neutral Europe where growth and climate go hand in hand. The Moderates want Europe to switch – not shut down.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-703	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats fundamentally welcome the green man, his starting point and its general will. But, as usual, when it comes to political proposals, the most important thing is not the direction of will but the details that govern the practical significance of the proposal. I will present here the motivational reservation of the Swedish Democrats, to which I would also like to call for approval. The point of departure for this reservation is that we support the committee's text of the report, except where we write otherwise in the reservation. The focus will now be on what we disagree with. Madam President, I would like First of all, a look at it is appropriate. Most of the world is in a serious economic, social and health policy crisis as a result of covid-19. In Europe, we are moving towards mass unemployment, uncertainty and a sharp deterioration in finances at both state and private level. For this reason, there is, in fact, reason to wait – not because environmental issues are less important but because it is difficult to know exactly what is the right priority right now. The objectives of the Green Paper will be partly financed by a new EU fund, the Just Transition Fund. This is a fund from which Sweden cannot expect many euros. Here it is interesting to note that this fund is greatly increased in the European Commission's proposal, but this is not done within the framework of the ordinary budget, but with the help of loans that Sweden, alongside the EU budget, is expected to pay off over 30 years. The attitude of the Swedish Democrats is clear: no funding through loans to the EU budget or to this fund. Financing of EU programmes through loans or new taxes must be completely excluded. When it comes to new goals or changes to the 2030 target, the views of the Swedish Democrats are closer to those of the European Commission than those of the government and the other parties here in Parliament. It is difficult today to see what is needed to strengthen the 2030 target as strongly as by − 55%. It is difficult to assess the impact of this on Sweden in terms of emission reductions and funding for the necessary measures at EU level. For this reason, the 2030 target should be fixed but evaluated on an ongoing basis to see if conditions exist for tightening up. In our view, the review of how far the parties to the Paris Treaty have reached that the EU has planned to implement in 2023 should be brought forward. The review should describe the results of each Member State until 31 December 2019, i.e. the results achieved before the Corona crisis. We would also like to point out that a fair transition must mean that there must be higher requirements on the part of the European Union for those countries that have high emissions of carbon dioxide. Madam President, I would like When it comes to energy supply, we oppose the wording on renewables. Clean, affordable and secure energy supply is essential, and here we want to see a clearer focus on nuclear energy. Nuclear power is central to the energy supply of many countries both today and perhaps in the future, if we are to switch. The EU should work to promote investment in both efficiency and the redevelopment of nuclear power. The EU should therefore promote fossil-free energy rather than renewable energy. In our view, the conversion to fossil-free fuels and support for this transition should be technologically neutral. We support the statements by both the committee and other committees on the importance of new technical solutions. However, we believe that it should be stressed much more clearly that the development of new technologies must be an essential and fundamental part of the new one. We also believe that clean and circular economy strategies must clearly and measurablely reward products made from renewable materials and products that lead to low carbon emissions, such as forest-based products. The substitution effect, i.e. the capacity of these materials to replace non-renewable materials and materials that generate high carbon dioxide emissions, should be underlined. We also believe that biotechnology and modern plant breeding technologies can play an important role in a circular economy. Such technologies should be made possible by changing legislation at EU level. We also believe that energy and resource efficiency should be built and renovated. We would like to emphasise that an important part of the work to reward products based on renewable wood is to ensure that wood-based products can be end-used as energy. The conversion of transport to non-fossil fuels is, of course, positive. But from the text you can read that electricity from nuclear power is not included here. When it comes to biofuels, the problem of land use and indirect emissions is not raised. Here we would have liked to have written about fossil-free and a clarification that it should be about genuinely sustainable biofuels, which are quite few frankly. This should be determined on the basis of comprehensive analyses analysing all aspects, such as food security and all impacts including indirect effects such as the exploitation of rainforests. We also have views when it comes to agriculture and from farm to table – a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system. Different Member States have come at different levels, for example, in terms of antibiotic use, pesticide use, biodiversity and climate change. We therefore believe that the objectives should not be formulated as fixed percentage targets in relation to the current status, because it is more difficult and creates more negative side-effects to change from a better situation. In order for some of the environmental issues of agriculture to be resolved and in order to achieve synergies between environmental benefits and increased competitiveness, we would add that modern plant breeding must be made possible in practice in the EU. A strategy and objective within the Green Group is therefore needed to improve legislation so that the issue of access to modern plant breeding technologies can be resolved. An essential part of this work is to amend the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing Council Directive Conservation and restoration of ecosystems and biodiversity. We would like to stress that the forestry strategy must be developed in parallel with the biodiversity strategy, because these two have an impact on each other. We would also like to add that open landscapes are at least as important for biodiversity as forests. Madam President, I would like When it comes to the EU as a global leader, we agree with the Commission's view that the global climate is determined by the way countries outside the EU act, but that the EU can help change other countries' emissions. We believe that the EU's efforts in the global climate should focus on technological, product and concept development and development aid, because this is more effective than trying to convince other countries by setting an example. In its position, the committee welcomes the Commission's intention to establish a climate pact with the aim of increasing civil involvement in climate policy. We do not support the committee's position in this part. As we understand the content of the Green Paper, the Commission intends to take measures to improve the possibility for citizens and non-governmental organisations to apply to national courts in all Member States for judicial review of decisions affecting the environment. We believe that the existing rules of law, which are part of the Århus Convention, are quite far-reaching, even very far-reaching, and that these rules must first be evaluated to see whether the right of redress really needs to be extended – probably not. In our view, the benefits of such a change must be balanced against the limitations that it may impose on individual traders.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-723	Madam President, I would like In Parliament's work in the spring with the Greens, there has been some confusion about how we should deal with this formally. When are we going to talk about things that we don't support? When are we going to come up with our differences? How deep and detailed should we go in the criticism? The ministers we have met have met with a little contradictory information. In addition, we have a pandemic that has prevented us from meeting in Parliament, and that in itself can make it more complicated to try to negotiate with us. In spite of this, after some political craft, we have largely managed to agree on an opinion on the green dealer. It has been a rewarding and a taking. But we have largely managed to agree externally with the sender at this stage of the process, for the Greens are, of course, an extremely important strategy. In my speech, despite the agreement on the opinion, I will point out a few points in which we Christian Democrats would have liked to have seen a little sharper wording. However, there will be a later examination of the case. We will then go into more detail and clarify the parts where we have a criticism of the Commission's position and proposals. Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the part where it was not possible to find common wordings, but where we have a reservation from the Christian Democrats, among others. I request the approval of Motivation No. 1. The transition to a society that has a significantly lower climate impact than today depends on stable and climate-friendly energy production, which can also meet an increased need for electricity. An important starting point for EU energy policy is that fossil energy sources can be phased out and replaced by fossil-free energy. Just as the expansion of renewable energy production is crucial for such a transition, nuclear power should be included as a basic basis for providing clean and stable power for a society with a high degree of electrification and a very low degree of climate impact. It should also be stressed that the support for conversion developed under EU funds should be technologically neutral and contribute to the most cost-effective transition to fossil-free as possible. Our government, too, must realise that at present we need both nuclear power and wind power, whether we like it or not. It is also important that new rules designed to enforce the green gift do not create new, unnecessary burdens and administrative costs for businesses. Otherwise, the risk is that the transition will hamper companies' competitiveness and reduce opportunities for companies to contribute. Madam President, I would like With regard to the Commission's ambition for 2030 to set the emission target for an even greater reduction, this is something that we support, provided it is preceded by a thorough assessment of climate, economics and jobs. Unfortunately, we can sometimes see that there are real cross-cutting impact assessments that get all the parts. But now the Commission is clear that there will be an impact assessment plan. We welcome this, of course, because, although our ambitions are good, we cannot do a lot of things just to do something. We must see that they really have an effect and that they work, even for those parties affected in one way or another. According to the Commission's vision, no place or people should be left out of it. This must not just be a flosskel. Ecological, economic and social ties together in the changeover. All three parts must be weighed when we move towards a sharpening. Madam President, I would like One part where we clearly have different focus is the biodiversity strategy. It is clear that the European Commission does not fully understand Swedish sustainable forestry. I do not know if you do not want to understand how it really works in Sweden and Finland, for example, but that you have other countries with a completely different type of forest, a lot of forest and quite different forestry as some idea of what our forests and our forestry look like today. It is therefore of the utmost importance that at every opportunity we get the opportunity, we point out that the Swedish forest is and should be a national competence. It is frightening, Madam President, when we see that quantitative targets are being set instead of qualitative targets for the protection of areas. The quantitative target of protected area equivalent to 30 per cent is absolutely incompatible with continued sustainable forestry in Sweden. We want to ensure that the forest is cultivated and not turned into a museum for city dwellers or people down on the continent who want to come here on vacation. A managed forest is much more efficient as a carbon sink. Furthermore, thanks to our 330 000 different landowners in Sweden, we have the diversity that we have with the important biotopes for biodiversity. On the EU Board, we have obtained a majority in favour of the position that I hope the government really is arguing with emphasicity, although in some respects they are opposed to the content: a future EU forest strategy must not be subject to the biodiversity strategy. EU action will promote the conditions for sustainable Swedish forestry and build on existing definitions of sustainable forestry. The EU's forestry strategy must safeguard the climate benefits of forests. The fact that the forest strategy is not subordinated to the biodiversity strategy is therefore crucial. In the biodiversity strategy, it is important to take into account economic and social sustainability aspects. The implementation of nature conservation directives must take account of the different national circumstances in the Member States. ..................................................... This is thus supported by a majority in the Swedish Parliament. We must also find a common way of counting protected areas. We do not have that in Europe today. Should we count as Germany does, according to some newspaper articles that have been in print in recent weeks in Sweden, we would have up to 58 percent protected area. But no matter what: What are we actually striving for? Is it quantity, or is it quality? Madam President, I would like In contrast to the European Commission, the Christian Democrats want to emphasise the ability of food production, in the Swedish context, to contribute to the inclusion of carbon dioxide and to the enrichment of biodiversity. The Christian Democrats believe that the government should be a driving force so that the strategy leads to the other member states meeting as high sustainability standards as the Swedish farmers do. We would also like to emphasise the ability of conventional food production to contribute to climate objectives. Plant protection products and fertilisers are under proper and responsible use as a prerequisite for sustainable food production, safe food production and affordable prices for all. Omiting these practices means land use that is counterproductive to climate change objectives. This means that organic production does not have to be destroyed. We say yes to both, for food on the table we must have. Then, Madam President, the party will be paid. Someone has to take the check. As far as taxation rights are concerned, I would like to state clearly that we are most strongly opposed to giving the EU any right to levy taxes on its citizens. The EU should mainly be financed by Member States' contributions. A supranational tax law is totally excluded. It does not contribute to a decent Europe. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the European climate pact. The Commission wants to launch a European climate pact that will involve the public in environmental issues in various ways. That sounds good. This includes reviewing the Århus Regulation to simplify the possibilities for NGOs and residents to question the legality of decisions affecting the environment. We note how over-implementing the Aarhus Convention in Sweden has led to boring consequences on several levels. So we have a job: first to clean in front of our own door. But the Christian Democrats are also opposed to the Commission's ambition to review the Århus regulation with the ambition stated earlier. The Århus regulation already operates to this end in a way that unfortunately fuels contradictions in societies. It's not a valet of it. My hope is that in the forthcoming work on the green man, we can nevertheless find common paths where we can clearly point to both the EU's and Sweden's path and, at the same time, jointly stop some of the madness that we can note in the communication.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-739	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it feels a little special to be here today with Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and to debate the green man, who is the EU's whole growth strategy. However, our committee has been instructed by the President to coordinate the responses linked to the green man. Many other committees have had to express their views on matters relating to their committee areas more than the area of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. A few weeks ago I met a centre colleague from West Sweden who read into the green gift and said this: Do you understand how good it can be? I want that tone a little while sharing some of the concerns that have been expressed in the past. It is important that we take on the growth strategy in different ways to show the differences that exist but also the strong ambition that exists from Sweden to see it as a sustainable growth strategy with a great focus on green transition. It is said that the EU's growth strategy, the green one, is about transforming the EU into a fair and prosperous society with a modern, resource efficient and competitive economy with net zero emissions in 2050. It is also an important part of implementing the 2030 Agenda and achieving sustainable development. This is a first roadmap, which will be followed by a number of strategies, some of which have already arrived. We will have reason to deal with them in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture with a little more depth than we have been able to do in the first review that we have made of the Greens. All policy areas are involved. These are energy, economic, industrial, production and consumption policies, infrastructure and transport, food and agriculture, construction, education and research, as well as taxation and social policy. That's why eight minutes is a fairly short time-- I want to say it right now. Madam President, I would like We welcome the fact that environmental and climate issues are high on the EU's agenda and then translated into action and concrete policies. This policy should then be followed up with robust impact assessments to see how different countries in the EU should be involved in meeting the common target of net zero emissions by 2050. I would like to remind you that it is important for each policy area to be managed in the most appropriate form of EU cooperation, based on the division of competences or the principle of subsidiarity and so on. The covid-19 pandemic that has strongly affected the health and life of many people has also created a major economic crisis that we have not yet seen the full extent of. In this context, the EU's growth strategy with a focus on sustainability can be a lever for securing, for example, the area of the Environment and Agriculture Committee, food security and reducing the vulnerability of the entire food system. Madam President, I would like A climate neutral EU is the goal by 2050, through the climate law that will create a long-term framework for the issues. We believe that the EU's emissions target should be increased to at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. On the Swedish side, we believe that the EU's emissions reduction target should also include a target of 2040 and periodic monitoring stations to verify that existing instruments are effective enough to reduce emissions. Economic instruments should be used to achieve the climate objectives, but there is a line of reasoning about moving to qualified majority voting in the tax field which the committee really does not support. Unanimity secures the influence and authority of the government and parliament over tax matters. The Committee on Taxation has been clear here, and the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture agrees with this. Madam President, I would like The industry will work towards a clean and circular economy. An action plan for the circular economy has been presented. Here it is important to ensure the long-term competitiveness of the EU. It is also good that the revision of the Industrial Emissions Directive is addressed as part of enabling greater circularity and contributing to the non-toxic cycle. In this context, we call for the ecodesign requirement to be extended to more product groups. The entire life cycle of the product should be taken into account, and more stringent requirements should be imposed on technical lifetimes, recycling, reparability, water use, discharges into the environment, information on hazardous substances and the like. But the green deal is also about building and renovating in an energy- and resource-efficient way. In this context, I would like to point out that increased wood construction can contribute to achieving climate objectives. It also contributes to increased carbon storage and more. Madam President, I would like Then comes one of the areas that perhaps involve me most in the green given, namely from farm to table or F arm to F ork. Not least during the current crisis, many challenges have emerged in terms of our self-sufficiency. I am thinking of the availability of food, fuel and other inputs, such as manure. In 2018, with the severe drought that was then, showed vulnerabilities of various kinds. However, this crisis has highlighted other challenges in our ability to support us. From farm to table and from producer to consumer is about robustness throughout the food system. Sweden has a food strategy that deals with increased competitiveness, increased production, exports, a whole-country perspective, safer food supply – yes, in principle much of what we recognize in F arm to F or from farm to table. Sweden has one of the world's cleanest farms, and we have come a long way in many ways in terms of responsible use of plant protection products and animal welfare. The EU announces an action plan to reduce the use of harmful plant protection products. The EU should take into account that plant protection products have a very significant impact on and importance for food production. The Action Plan should then focus on proposals that stimulate innovation in the area of sustainable plant protection products and new technologies. For the Center Party, it is particularly important for the EU to focus on reducing the use of antibiotics and thus also the risks. Good husbandry is an important tool for achieving that goal. Here Sweden is already the best in the EU. The Center Party would like to see the whole of EU animal welfare legislation re-established, as it is both inadequate and outdated. It has not been a priority for many years, and there are new research and new recommendations that show that it should be redeployed. Today, many different directives are divided into different species, which provide different rules in different Member States. So it looks very different. By bringing it together in an animal welfare team under an umbrella with minimum levels, we get more uniform protection with clearer accountability for sustainable food production. For example, during this year new Efsa recommendations have been developed for new procedures in the area of slaughter as well as for the temperature and space required to ensure animal welfare during transport. It shows that the law should be updated, and it is even the case that the European Court of Auditors agrees with us on this. Madam President, I would like The committee wants to see, like F arm to F ork, efforts to attract more young people to farming through the promotion of education and the dissemination of knowledge. When a harmonised calculation method and the definition of food waste are in place, the strategy should also include a target for reducing food waste in the EU – something that is important for the Center Party. I would also like to point, like previous speakers, to the EU's forestry strategy, which it intends to develop, as the former expires in 2020. It should be formulated in such a way as to promote a growing forest industry and sustainable forestry. At the same time, national self-determination on forest issues will continue to be safeguarded. The forest has very many different uses, not least linked to wood construction, as I have already mentioned, biofuels and construction at all. There are so many parts, and it is important that we can use the forest in an increasingly sustainable way and also make the most of what can be done. The Bioeconomy Strategy should continue to allow the replacement of fossil-intensive materials and fuels with renewable bio-based alternatives. The next vision, a net zero emission vision, is to present, as Sweden has already proposed, an action plan for high-fluorinated substances, so-called PFAS, and to work on further restrictions according to REACH for PFAS. Measures should also be taken to reduce the emission of pharmaceuticals into our environment. The way forward is also about mobilising research and promoting innovation as well as its implementation in order to achieve the intentions and ambitions of the green giver. Here are four so-called green-given missions. One example is climate-smart cities that should be bold, set clear targets and mobilise resources. Another important element is the AI strategy. Here, the EU Member States together need to ensure that data-based innovation is an important element and that the potential for application in green industries is exploited in the European Union. Madam President, I would like Finally, it is about us European citizens and our commitment to climate policy. The Commission intends to promote greater involvement of regions, cities, civil society and business in the climate transition. Together we shape the environment in which our children and grandchildren will grow up. It wants us to put our hands on it! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President and the entire Committee on the Environment and Agriculture both in here and out there a really nice summer. Be careful, keep washing your hands and keep your distance!
i-47f2140eaf963afa-768	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the green light, and I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's proposal for a decision. In Sweden as well as in other countries, right-wing populist parties are trying to win votes in the climate debate. By denying climate change or claiming that there is a conflict of interest between economic growth and sustainable development, it plays a role in the voters' fear of transition in order to divide our society and increase distrust of other parties. However, we Social Democrats know from historical experience that conversion and economic growth go hand in hand. That is why we welcome the EU's proposal for a new green gift, where a fair climate change is the focus and no people are left behind. Just before Christmas, the Commission presented its Green Deal with the aim of making the EU climate neutral by 2050. It is a comprehensive and important roadmap that takes a holistic approach to enable Europe to turn into a sustainable society, while strengthening competitiveness and increasing our economic growth. The Roadmap also proposes strategies in various areas that have a major impact on global emissions and that will facilitate our transition to a climate-neutral Europe. Among other things, it proposes a strategy for sustainable and smart mobility in order to reduce transport emissions. An important area is the zero emission vision for a non-toxic environment. It also proposes a new food strategy that will increase the production of organic food and facilitate sustainable and health-related food choices for consumers. Madam President, I would like We must take advantage of the opportunities offered by the transition to a circular and bio-based economy. In this work, both the new industrial strategy and the circular economy action plan are extremely important to ensure Europe's long-term competitiveness. As part of the effort to invest in climate and resource leaders, the EU will focus in particular on key technologies, which it hopes will deliver breakthroughs and be addressed by the market. One example of such a key technology is Hybrid, the Swedish investment in fossil-free steel. Another area where Swedish research is at the forefront is batteries, whose safety, durability and recyclability will increase. Furthermore, the Commission proposes a carbon border adjustment mechanism. It can be an important tool to avoid unfair competition by allowing the price of imported goods in the Union to reflect the environmental and climate requirements we impose on our own production. At the same time, it is important to stress that such a mechanism aimed at ensuring that import prices reflect the CO2 content of products acts as a climate action and does not evolve into a conventional import duty. It is therefore important that the effects on trade and competitiveness, including compatibility with the WTO acquis, be carefully analysed in the design of this mechanism. While global average temperatures are rising, we see that species are dying at an increasingly rapid rate. These two crises are closely linked. Climate change affects the conditions for humans, animals and entire ecosystems. Furthermore, reducing biodiversity exacerbates the effects of climate change. So one crisis cannot be resolved without taking account of the other. Both issues require global cooperation. Madam President, I would like The flight plan was presented before the coronapndemy spread around the world. Now there are voices on the right that the time is not right to sharpen the climate targets and reshape the EU and that there is a conflict between climate change and economic growth. To those votes, I would like to emphasise that the Greens are a growth strategy and that emission reductions do not harm economic growth. The EU reduced its climate emissions by 23% between 1990 and 2018, while the economy grew by 61% over the same period. In other words, it is perfectly possible to reduce emissions while increasing economic growth. One of the main proposals of the Roadmap is that the EU should become climate neutral by 2050. This is an extremely important proposal. The legislation in the 2030 climate framework will also be reviewed and tightened up. This applies, in particular, to the EU ETS and the regulation on the burden-sharing of greenhouse gas emissions. Madam President, I would like Increased disparities, poverty and inequality contribute to the loss of legitimacy of democracy and the ability of politics to solve difficult societal problems. For us Social Democrats, a fair climate transition is based on people not being left behind on the basis of our global climate policy. The measures needed to reduce climate impacts vary between regions, economic sectors and individuals. Some people will have to undergo a greater transition than others, and it is important that they can see how they too can get better and richer jobs and lives after they have changed. In order to achieve a fair transition, the Commission proposes a J ust T ransition M echanism as part of Europe's sustainable investment plan. This mechanism will focus on the regions facing the greatest difficulties in their efforts to become fossil-free. The mechanism is proposed to be financed partly by the EU budget and partly by the European Investment Bank. Among other things, the aim is to protect workers and those most affected by possible social impacts of climate change through retraining, further training and jobs in new sectors. Madam President, I would like The green gift is about a paradigm shift. It is about the need for a new pact to bring together Europe's citizens, regions, civil society and industry together with the EU institutions to work in close cooperation. The EU has the collective capacity to restart its economy and society in order to embark on a more sustainable path. A fair climate policy must always include a strategy for economic development and socially sustainable development. We must shape a climate policy that involves development where everyone can see improvements in their lives. It must have democratic participation and be based on people's participation. The green one is Europe's response to the many challenges facing us, together with the rest of the world.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-787	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party began its speech by stating that the understanding of how good the green man can be is important, and that should be a fundamental input into our work on the green man. Sure! If it is just a matter of tone and a smile, I can also smile, but not because the green one as it stands today is so fantastically good and sufficient, but rather of the commitment of the people around Europe to stronger climate action. It's a struggle I'm happy to smile at every day. We in the Left Party have been worried since the start of the work on the European Green Party that the end product will not take us all the way to our goal. It is a concern that we still have. The EU's green hand provides an opportunity to tackle global warming and biodiversity depletion. Unfortunately, we have not seen that the measures taken so far are sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, among others. It is therefore important that Sweden as a pioneer in environmental and climate work shows that it wants clear and far-reaching action plans that really build an ecologically sustainable society. Climate scientists have given us ten years to drastically reduce our emissions – otherwise we risk irreversible consequences. In order to make the necessary adjustment, we cannot continue as usual. We need to make major fundamental changes in how we structure our societies as well as our economy. In this statement, the Riksdag presents its views on Sweden's entry to the negotiations linked to the European Green Paper. For the Left Party it would have been desirable for Sweden to stand up for sharper goals and measures. In the work ahead, we will present such measures. Fundamentally, we see that the targets need to be achieved more quickly, and therefore they need to be tightened up to be in line with the 1.5-degree target. By 2030, we want a 70% reduction and then a clear plan to reach the target of 2040. Transport is a major part of the transition. The opinion does not at all address the role of public transport – this despite the fact that we need to reduce our travel and move to a circular economy where not everyone owns everything for themselves. For example, fewer people own their own cars, and instead they share cars or travel collectively. In this scenario, collective travel is crucial for both short and long distances. Collective travel shall be a factor in a fair transition, as it may be more accessible to all. It is necessary to reduce the number of passengers travelling by car and air. The green man should set a target for this. Now there are also proposals across Europe, including from Austria, which want to see a ban on travel where the traveller has to pay less than the actual cost of the journey. In France there is a requirement for Air France that in order to obtain its Corona support, the company should not fly on routes where it takes less than two and a half hours to travel on the train. These are reasonable proposals. Meeting our transport targets will require massive investment in rail, public transport and maritime transport, and it requires a low-climate automotive infrastructure. It is therefore important that the financial support given in connection with the Corona crisis, and also in other cases, should be designed in such a way that it is compatible with the existing climate and environmental conditions. The granting of subsidies to fossil transport modes should not be in time. As regards the wording of the opinion on agriculture, the Left Party would like to see a clearer link with low-impact, local and small-scale production. Today's focus is on large farms and industrial agriculture, and that is also where the major financial support goes. The Left Party believes that a priority of local production should be reflected in the Swedish negotiations on the green gift. The focus should only be on a general reduction in the EU's support for agriculture and a continuation of agricultural aid, which stimulates local production with high environmental considerations and good animal welfare. Swedish animal husbandry has room for improvement, but it is good in an EU perspective. And even more so it needs to be improved in the other Member States of the European Union. In this context, the Left Party believes that it is important that we press and give animal welfare a significant place in the negotiations. It is important for us to be able to produce decently produced food and as part of reducing the spread of infection and antibiotic resistance. Animal transport within the EU must be regulated more clearly in order to improve animal welfare. The negative effects of industrial livestock farming on climate, animal welfare and the spread of infection must be limited and small-scale production encouraged. Sweden is now behind the objective of protecting 30 percent of the oceans by 2030 following an initiative by the UK. The seas are highly relevant when we discuss biodiversity, among other things, within the framework of the Green Party. The EU is also a negotiating partner when it comes to developing a new international maritime agreement, and the EU's view of the seas plays a role. With one of Europe's longest coastlines, Sweden should be an advocate of a strong protection of the seas and their resources. In the end there is much to comment on the green given. Much has been said today. Occasions will be provided as strategies are presented to go into more detail. In the end, it is a matter of the Greens not being very green if we are not prepared to make real changes. These are changes that may seem unpleasant, but in this case the alternatives are much worse. If we do nothing or do too little, we will regret it afterwards.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-799	Madam President, I would like Yes, today we are debating the committee's opinion on the Commission's communication on a European Green Paper. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Liberals have a specific opinion on energy policy. Otherwise, we support the statement. Madam President, I would like Liberals want the EU to become the world's best climate and environmental organisation. With a population of 450 million, we can together make it much more effective than the Member States can do on their own, individually. The green man is a new growth strategy for Europe, and we think that is a good thing. It is also an important part of the Commission's strategy to implement the UN 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. In order to implement the European Green Paper, there is a need to reshape energy, economics, industry, production, consumption, large-scale infrastructure, transport, food, agriculture, construction, taxation and social policy. There are many liberal proposals in the Green Paper: sustainable trade and climate aid, a common pledge system, increased protection of biodiversity, rapid phasing out of support for fossil fuels, paying for their emissions, strong measures against overfishing and much more. Madam President, I would like Climate change and environmental degradation require global solutions. Trade policy and other foreign policy instruments can also promote sustainable development in other parts of the world. The Paris Agreement is the multilateral framework that will enable climate change to be combated. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture highlights several important perspectives in the preparation of the Commission's opinion. We have tried to find a common denominator for different parties and highlight what we consider to be important for Sweden. One issue that has not yet been mentioned in the debate, but highlighted by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, is the perspective of women and men on the climate issue. Women's and men's climate impact differs, says the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture in its opinion, and so does how they are affected by climate change. That is why the Committee on Environment and Agriculture believes that the EU's green gift must be based on a gender perspective both in the analysis phase and in the implementation and follow-up phases. The ongoing outbreak of covid-19, mentioned several times in the debate, has not only affected human health but has also created an economic crisis throughout the EU as well as globally. The committee believes that the Greens need to be the starting point for the EU's recovery efforts. The committee welcomes the proposal for a European climate law announced in the Green Paper. The EU's greenhouse gas emission reduction target for 2030 should be increased to at least − 55% compared to 1990 and should be in line with the Paris Agreement's 1.5 ‐ degree target. In the Committee's view, this enhanced objective should be included in the European Climate Act. The committee also considers that the net zero emissions target by 2050 should apply both to the EU as a whole and to each individual Member State at national level. Madam President, I would like It's important to have a non-toxic cycle. The entire life cycle of the product should be taken into account, and greater demands should be made on technical lifetime, recycling, water use, emissions to the environment, information requirements on hazardous substances and the like. A consumer perspective is needed on these issues. Knowledge about the content of the recycled material is important and it is of high quality so that it contributes to non-toxic cycles. With regard to construction and buildings, an increased focus on the circular economy is a good thing, but there is no perspective on non-toxic cycles in the Commission's proposal for a circular economy action plan. It raises the Environment and Agriculture Committee as an important issue. It is important to improve and expand information on the content of construction products, including for the circular economy. It is also important to facilitate the traceability of substances or materials in construction products that may become problematic in waste management and recycling. Madam President, I would like Many have dealt with the issue of animal welfare. I would also like to emphasise the importance of monitoring compliance with animal welfare legislation and the rules on the use of antibiotics, which must be improved throughout the European Union. As regards the conservation and restoration of ecosystems and biodiversity, parties have slightly different views. The Commission intends to present a proposal for a post-2020 biodiversity strategy. We welcome this in the Liberals. We also welcome the fact that the Commission is developing a new forestry strategy for the EU in 2020 to replace the current one. Our starting point is sustainable forestry that should include farming but also protection of forests as equal goals. Mobilising research and promoting innovation is at the heart of the Liberals. Research and innovation and their implementation will play a major role in achieving the green gift's ambitions. Liberals believe that the EU can and should play a greater role in the recovery after covid-19. We are therefore prepared to welcome a larger EU budget, but only if it includes a strong re-prioritisation towards climate, research, growth and competitiveness. Like the Aarhus Convention, we assume that we all have obligations for future generations to protect and preserve the environment. It is important that EU citizens have the right to environmental information, have the right to participate in decision-making processes and have the right to access justice in accordance with the Aarhus Convention. We share the Commission's view that the Aarhus Convention is important. Madam President, I would like The ongoing pandemic affects many people in Sweden and the world. We are all reminded on a daily basis of how people's lives and health are affected, how businesses are affected, how people in the labour market are affected – yes, the scale is significant and huge. An unexpected effect of the pandemic is that we see nature recover and wildlife return to environments where they haven't existed for a long time – on the streets, in parks and in the sea. We see pictures from windows in skyscrapers where one suddenly sees the horizon because the smog has lightened, and we are reminded that nature's resources cannot be taken for granted. We must create the conditions for long-term sustainable development and a circular society. We should not go back to what was but move forward, but in a new sustainable direction. We have to change our society. Around the world there are small signs that the pandemic gives nature some breathing space. The EU's green hand and our national decisions provide the opportunity for Sweden to take new leaps towards a long-term sustainable society with green growth. We are doing this because we are protecting our globe and because we want to hand over to future generations a world that – by us, now – has been managed sustainably.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-823	Madam President, I would like The Green Deal, the green dealer, is important for Sweden and Europe to be able to make a green recovery after the coronapandemine. The crisis has hit many people hard and created wounds that may never heal. It has contributed to an economic crisis for individuals, businesses and states. But it has also created an understanding that much can change. We need to build a society that can stand stronger when the next crisis comes. That is why the Green Party wants to see a green recovery after the crisis. The fact that the European Commission has developed the Green Deal proposal, with a climate law and ambitions for a much more sustainable food production, for a non-toxic environment, for biodiversity, for the circular economy and for sustainable mobility, is a necessary part of getting Sweden's and the EU's economies on the move and at the same time solving our major societal challenges. We need to seize the opportunity to deal with two crises when building society after covid-19, the economic crisis that the pandemic has created and the climate crisis that our fossil dependence has created. The green dealer is a vitamin injection for a resilient society, and a resilient society is the best vaccine against the next crisis. The Green Paper is a growth strategy aimed at transforming the EU into a fair and prosperous society with a modern, resource efficient and competitive economy with reduced climate emissions. The ambition is to decouple economic growth from the consumption of resources. This is in the background. The Green Paper also aims to protect, preserve and improve the nature of the EU and protect public health from environmental problems. It is also an important part of the Commission's strategy to implement the UN 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. I support the committee's proposal. The Green Party welcomes the fact that the European Commission, with this green deal, gives higher priority to environmental and climate issues. Of course, we believe that it could be even better and be done even faster. At the same time, the EU's broad environmental and climate action in all Member States is extremely important. In contrast to the European Commission, right-wing extremists, represented in this House by the Swedish Democrats, who say no, not we, not now, not climate, not environment. All sectors are involved in climate change, and it is important to seize the opportunities that a circular economy can provide. The role of digitalisation and the ability to move from ownership to the sharing of goods provide a business development in various service companies that creates a strong economic development forward. The extension of EU ecodesign requirements to more product groups, as well as taking into account not only energy use but also technological lifetime, recycling, reparability, use of natural resources, emissions to the environment and so on will develop entrepreneurship. Housing construction is an important area, especially after the coronapandemine. From the Swedish side, we stress the importance of increased wood construction in order to cope with climate change and increase the contribution to carbon storage. Madam President, I would like From farm to table, the Commission's proposal is to achieve more sustainable food systems. Farmers play an important role in managing climate change. I would particularly like to pay tribute to the 7 500 organic farmers in Sweden, because they are at the forefront in meeting environmental and climate objectives.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-837	Agriculture produces food, but also provides open landscapes, clean water, biodiversity, carbon storage in the soil, decent working conditions and a non-toxic environment – if properly conducted. In the report Climate C hang and Land, the IPCC has highlighted organic farming as a way to achieve more sustainable land use. It is wrong to equate production per unit with environmental benefits, as many in the debate do. The European Commission wants 25% of EU agriculture to be organic. If the EU's food system is to become a global standard, as it stands, improvements must be made on many levels. In order to achieve this, the Commission considers that farmers need to reduce the use of pesticides, antibiotics and fertilizers significantly. Organic farming is to be expanded, animal welfare improved and biodiversity loss reversed. In return, the Commission argues that farmers will benefit economically from more sustainable agriculture. We in the Swedish Parliament must understand that making the EU's food system a global standard will affect our food strategy. The aim of the EU Biodiversity Strategy is to take urgent action to protect and restore Europe's biodiversity for the benefit of humans and our planet, our climate and our economy, as they say. Of course, it is also for the intrinsic value of animals and plants. However, the EU stresses that nature, ecosystems and biodiversity are particularly important for certain sectors, e.g. agriculture, the food industry and forestry. The Biodiversity Strategy also proposes planting at least 3 billion trees to increase the resilience of EU forests. It may not seem like a huge task for Sweden, which has a forestry legislation that requires replanting, but we need to understand that the joint work in the EU can sometimes express itself on issues that are more relevant in southern Europe. We must support this and not see European policy with only Swedish glasses. Madam President, I would like I have to say that the discussions of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on European issues do not always have this international perspective, but most of the time the wording finally lands well after discussions. One issue that began to take a domestic policy perspective in the preparation of this case was the Commission's call for the Århus Convention to be implemented more effectively. Some opposition politicians thought it was bad because they think that environmental organisations have too much to say about in Sweden. The Aarhus Convention assumes that we all have obligations for future generations to protect and preserve the environment. The Convention, which has accumulated past experience in environmental work, establishes three pillars: the right to information from public authorities, the right to participate in decision-making and the right to access to justice. Sweden signed the Convention in 1998 and ratified it in 2005. Now, 15 years later, it is most reasonable that the other Member States of the European Union should do so in full. That is also stated in the report, but it was going wrong in the preparation. Work on a non-toxic environment needs to be stepped up, and we are calling for stricter rules on endocrine disruptors in legislation. We specifically point out the PFAS. Sweden, together with several other Member States, has announced the development of a restriction under REACH by the entire PFAS group, covering 4,700 substances. Here is Sweden at the forefront and pushes on. We highlight this in the report. On Tuesday, Sweden's first climate action plan was voted through in the Riksdag. It was historic. In the Green Paper there is a proposal for a European Climate Act, and Sweden is leading the way. A climate law in the EU was the Green Party's most important election promise in the run-up to the last EU elections, when voters voted in meteorologist Pär Holmgren in the European Parliament. Pär and the other environmental partners are now working to tighten the EU's climate targets. In a globalised and open world, it is particularly important to build a society that can withstand and deal with a variety of crises. The success of the Coronapandemia has made it clear that we have a vulnerable society that needs to build up greater resilience. By focusing the necessary investments on renewable energy, sustainable transport, biodiversity and the circular economy, we can create both hope for the future and jobs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, through the report and the decision before us, the majority in the Swedish Parliament rejects new nuclear energy as part of climate policy. The Coronandem has changed the conditions for Swedish politics, Madam President. Next year's the Green Party's 40th birthday. We have carried ideas and had an impact on many of them. Many of the crises we see in the world now have an answer, but not in neoliberalism, nationalism, conservatism or socialism, but in a green policy of solidarity. The fact that the green voice is strong in the EU is clearly evident in the green one.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-853	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the European Green Paper. By 2050, the EU will become the world's first climate-neutral continent. It is an ambition that the Liberals support. The European gift contains eight focus areas, and in my speech I will focus on transport. Transport accounts for 25% of EU greenhouse gas emissions, and it continues to increase. In order to achieve climate neutrality, transport emissions must be reduced by 90% by 2050. It's a challenge. Madam President, I would like 75% of inland freight transport is currently carried by road, and the ambition in the EU is for a large part to be transferred to rail and inland waterways. The Commission will therefore take steps to increase capacity on railways and inland waterways. The Commission also wants to speed up work on the Single European Sky to reduce aviation emissions. Maritime transport wants to regulate the access of the most polluting ships to EU ports and to ensure that ships in port use electricity. The green one also addresses the growing importance of automated and connected mobility together with smart traffic management systems as an important area for more efficient transport. The energy sector will build on fossil-free energy, combined with a rapid phase-out of coal, while fossil fuels will be phased out in the gas sector. It wants to phase out the system of fossil fuel subsidies and review exemptions and emissions trading. In 2025, the EU will need around 1 million public charging and refuelling stations. The Commission intends to support the deployment of charging and refuelling stations where there are white spots in Europe. At the same time, the Commission wants to promote the production and use of sustainable fuels and to review the CO2 emissions legislation on the vehicle side. The Commission stresses the importance of research and promoting innovation, if we are to achieve the objectives, and the importance of partnerships between industry and Member States, which, among other things, point out battery development. The Commission highlights digital technologies such as artificial intelligence, 5G and the importance of cloud services for managing climate change and protecting the environment. Digital infrastructure combined with data and AI will facilitate the development of new technologies and traffic systems. This is precisely what is important for Europe's competitiveness and for the EU to regain its leadership shirt within AI. The Commission will review the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Directive and the Trans-European Transport Network by 2021 and take initiatives to increase capacity on railways and inland waterways. The Commission has also designated 2021 as a European Year of Railways. Madam President, I would like The green man reflects the priorities of the Liberals. Liberals share the Commission's view that we should develop a good infrastructure for all modes of transport, including providing infrastructure for new sustainable solutions for aviation. We also see that the EU is a very important player for the major climate challenges facing shipping and aviation, that these are cross-border and that international decisions are crucial for reducing emissions. Madam President, I would like It is interesting to compare the conditions and targets set for the EU relative to Sweden. With our fossil-free electricity and extensive access to raw materials for biofuels, we are probably the country that is best placed to make a transition to a sustainable society. It also gives a responsibility to go ahead and at the same time ask the questions: What measures work specifically for Sweden? And what of what we do is repeatable in other countries? By taking the lead, we provide opportunities for old and new companies to develop and take market shares in the green market. At the same time, we should be aware that Sweden is on the edge of the EU, with long distances both within Sweden and for exports and trips to the rest of Europe. It is a challenge that more central countries in Europe do not have. That is why it is important that we talk about a round transport system and a round market and that we must help each other within the European Union. As well as being able to export new technologies and raw materials to Europe, we need support to build up transport routes to and from Europe. Therefore, the Commission's focus on the trans-European transport network is important, not least for railways. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that we should work towards closer links between the Nordic countries and Europe through an extended road and rail network, with priority being given to border crossings with Denmark, Norway and Finland. Our countries have large exports to the rest of the EU, not least in terms of raw materials for climate change, and by talking together with the Nordic voice we can have a greater impact on infrastructure investments.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-868	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for rejection of the bill, which the Red-Green Government, paradoxically, can only push through the Riksdag by taking active support from the Swedish Democrats. At the same time, I would like to endorse the common reservation that we Moderates have with C, L and KD. Madam President, I would like One of the main pillars and successes of European cooperation is the free movement of goods, services and labour. Sweden in particular has benefited from this, not only because we are extremely dependent on being able to export without obstacles to our immediate environment, but also because Sweden in every way, both for society as a whole and for individuals and families, has a great need for labour and increased competition, to put it mildly, for example in sectors such as construction. Perhaps that is the clearest example, but there are many more. This is absolutely essential for us if we are to have a chance to deal with everything from the housing crisis and the need for more housing to more infrastructure at all. Madam President, I would like The common market is a prerequisite for increasing competition and the provision of a wide range of services to the benefit of Swedish consumers, producers and workers across the board. The single market within the EU is also a prerequisite for good economic growth, for Swedish industry's ability to act within the EU's internal market and ultimately for millions of Swedish jobs, especially in view of the economic consequences of the Corona virus. Madam President, I would like For workers in companies providing services temporarily in another EU country, there are specific rules in the so-called Posting of Workers Directive implemented in Swedish law by the Posting of Workers Act. The provisions provide that posted workers shall be guaranteed certain working and employment conditions in force in the host Member State. The Posting Act provides that Swedish trade unions have the right to take action to enforce minimum conditions in key industry agreements in certain areas, what is called the hard core, which concerns, for example, pay, working time and working environment. The Red-Green Government has previously introduced new rules in the Posting of Workers Act. It is now possible to take action to achieve a specific collective agreement for posted workers. This applies regardless of whether the posting employer can prove that the conditions that workers have are at least as favourable as the minimum conditions in the Swedish sectoral agreement. Madam President, I would like For us, it is obvious that good conditions should be ensured for those who come from other EU countries to Sweden to work. It is essential that these workers are not exploited without the laws and regulations to which they are currently subject actually being complied with. However, there are major and serious problems with the changes made by the Red-Green Government to the Posting of Workers Act by the removal of the so-called lex Laval Act in 2017. The result of this has made it increasingly difficult for companies from other countries to come here, which hampers free movement and the great need for increased competition in Sweden. In sectors where Sweden has a great need for labour, for example in the construction sector that I mentioned earlier, this can be directly harmful to us who live, live and work in Sweden. The proposal now made by the government to implement the amended Posting of Workers Directive hampers all this – freedom of movement – even more. The government has opted for too far-reaching and misguided implementation of the amending directive. One of several areas of concern is the lack of clarity resulting from the transition from the concept of minimum wage to the concept of pay. The scope for combat action is further enhanced by the text of the law opening up, among other things, to combat measures also in the case of non-compulsory wage components. We can also note that the government's proposal in several parts imposes an unjustified administrative burden on companies, for example in connection with the introduction of the employer's obligation to inform employees of the time that others have done the same work in the same workplace. I can see that the government refuses to see the problems that this creates for businesses, but simply throws it away without any further explanation or interest in general. Madam President, I would like For us, it is important to make it easier for posting companies to do the right thing and for posted workers to be able to take advantage of their rights. As part of this, it is necessary for information on the Swedish labour market to be easily accessible. There has long been a requirement for employee organisations to submit collective agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We can also note that this has not been done sufficiently. It is remarkable, and the disinterest of these very trade unions is telling. In the present case, the Government has had the opportunity to propose that some form of sanction be linked to the obligation to submit collective agreements but has refused to submit such a proposal. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal entails increased uncertainty and additional administrative burdens in addition to undermining competition and the provision of services. The proposal also opens up the scope for action without the balance and accuracy requirements that would have existed under the reintroduction of lex Laval. Madam President, I would like Finally, I can only regret that the Government's proposal is really only about organisational privileges for trade unions, not about caring for Swedish jobs, workers, Swedish companies, Swedish consumers or the correct rules of the Swedish labour market.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-883	Madam President, I would like During the current Corona crisis, it has become clear how much of our prosperity is so dependent on exchanges with the rest of the world and not least with Europe. After the Swedish economy has first been affected by all restrictions on the domestic market, a second wave is now coming where Swedish jobs and companies are affected by the slowing down and blocking of trade and exchanges with the EU in particular. When we now discuss the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive – it sounds like a rather bureaucratic issue, some sort of part of the machinery in Sweden's implementation of EU rules or something similar – it is something fundamentally very important. It is about the free movement of workers within the EU, one of the basic foundations of cooperation – that Swedish workers should be able to follow their businesses in the rest of the EU and that, conversely, we allow workers from other EU countries to follow their businesses on mission here and enrich our society. From the left in the Swedish debate, and also from the Swedish Democrats, they have not been content to stop cheating and to stop unfair conditions, which I believe everyone in this House is behind. I would be surprised if that were not the case. It has not been satisfied that the posted people who come here should have Swedish conditions – they have not been satisfied that this should be checked – but they have wanted to remove lex Laval, who has protected Swedish companies, Swedish consumers and those who have come here. It has wanted to go further – ever more demands and ever more bureaucracy. And for those who do not meet every new requirement, there is always the threat of being subjected to far-reaching action by the union and for EU workers to be met again by blocked workplaces and placards with the text Go home! I would therefore like to call for the approval of reservation 1 from the Center Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. The government has chosen an unwarranted far-reaching implementation of this amending directive which has created grey areas, just like those with which we have had problems in the past and which involve unjustified bureaucratic obstacles. Here is what has been mentioned earlier in this debate. It is a transition from the concept of minimum wage to the concept of pay, which opens up for combat measures and new grey areas, even regarding salary components that are actually outside the posting mission that is being carried out in Sweden. In addition, there is the strange rule that workers should find out the time that others have done the same job in the same workplace. We want posted companies to be able to do the right thing, and we want posted workers to be able to take advantage of their rights. But then it must be clear what applies, both in new legislation such as this and that the collective agreements to be followed slavishly are available for reading somewhere. It should not take detective work to know how to do right and not be punished by combat measures. This has been mentioned many times over many years. The whole arrangement is characterized here by a reluctance, an aversion and a willingness to complicate every step. The only consequence will be to make it more difficult and prevent the opportunities for EU workers to come here. What does such an attitude mean for Sweden's ability to maintain and defend openness between countries in these difficult coronatides if you get so close to the countries and the forces that want to slow down and make exchanges more difficult? What does it mean for Swedish companies to establish themselves with posted employees in other countries? Finally, and perhaps most importantly, what does it mean for the Swedish economy's ability to meet the shortages that have constantly arisen in the business world in recent years? The exchange within the EU has made it possible to build schools, which would otherwise not have been built, to build housing, which would otherwise not have been built, and to create projects and jobs in Sweden for people living and working in Sweden – Swedish workers – while having the right conditions for the posted European workers. Why, in all other contexts, should we speak out warmly for the importance of the EU's internal market for our businesses, for free trade and for transparency, while here we join those who want to make it more difficult and prevent it? It is not about all those who work in Sweden not having good and safe working conditions. Of course, once again, order and order are needed on the Swedish labour market in all its parts. No worker shall be exploited. It is fundamental and absolutely self-evident. But this cannot be opposed to mobility and exchange within Europe. They have to go hand in hand. Then we must not try to take legitimate and important safety rules on the labour market and screw them so much that they gradually and in practice become bureaucratic, protectionist obstacles. This road, which we reserve ourselves against, leads in the long run to a dead end and a closed and isolated Sweden.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-892	Madam President, I would like Everyone who works in Sweden must be guaranteed reasonable pay and working conditions, whether they are resident in Sweden or temporarily work here. The principle of equal pay for equal work shall apply to all employees in the Swedish labour market. Posted workers who perform the same job as a Swedish worker must thus have equal pay and working conditions. In this way, we can maintain and further develop decent wage and working conditions, thus preventing wage dumping, over-exploitation and socially destructive grey areas. In this way, we can also counter one of the most important catalysts for inequality and ethnic straddling. In order to achieve these goals, which at first sight also in the Swedish parliament should be self-evident to support, it is necessary that the authorities' work against pure work crime is strengthened and better coordinated. But most importantly and most effectively, workers have good real opportunities to assert their rights. The problem of the secondment of workers from other EU countries being used for competition with lower wages and lower working conditions is something that we in the Left Party have been paying a lot of attention for a long time and in many contexts. Most of all, of course, it is the trade unions – those who have equal pay for equal work as goals and means – who have warned and worked with this. In the most affected sectors, many employers have also met with unhealthy competition and noticed that it is becoming more difficult to do right and stick to the conditions that norms the Swedish labour market. This standardization is achieved through collective agreements signed between the parties. Basically, the neo-liberal construction of the EU system has deepened the problems and made it more difficult for workers' collective protection mechanisms against exploitation. From this point of view, I can see that the Government's proposal in the proposal that we have on the table today is a step in the right direction in order to strengthen the possibilities of achieving equal treatment between posted and domestic workers. The proposal is in line with the demands previously made by the Left Party, and we therefore support it. These are small but enough important improvements that are made possible by the fact that there has also been a political momentum in the EU system. The Swedish Government has been quite successful in pushing some of the EU directives in the right direction. The bill that we are now dealing with does what is known with the strange language of the European Union as an extension of the hard core. It will be possible to have a more natural and reasonable interpretation of what constitutes salary when you look at the situation with regard to the rights of posted workers. Previously, the minimum wage has been applied, a concept that is actually foreign to the Swedish labour market. At least such things as travel, food, accommodation and accommodation are now added. Clarifications on what should apply to hired workers make it a little more difficult to use rent-in to go around requirements for reasonable wages and working conditions in the context of secondment. It will also provide slightly better protection for long-term secondees. It is established that all conditions in the host country, i.e. Sweden in this case, shall apply after 12 months or 18 months after a reasoned notification. In fact, we would have liked this time to be shorter, but that is how far the EU's draft battle took it this time. Although we support the Government's proposal and see the limitations that the EU system is still travelling, there are several points where we in the Left Party, like several trade unions, believe that the government could and should have gone further to strengthen the position of collective agreements, counteract social dumping and bring about order and order to the Swedish labour market. Like LO and the trade union Building, we believe, among other things, that compensation for travel, food and accommodation in respect of travel from the sending country to Sweden should also be included in the salary base, and thus be enforced with the support of combat measures in the extreme case. Otherwise, situations may arise where a posted worker is completely unpaid for these costs. This is something that we know also occurs in the Swedish labour market. There may be a loophole to push down the wages of posted workers. Of course, this is a major problem for the workers affected. The proposal also proposes to introduce an obligation for the purchaser of a service to request or react to whether or not the employer has fulfilled its notification obligation. This is a way to introduce stronger joint responsibility for reasonable conditions on the Swedish labour market. That's good. What we are reacting to, like several trade unions, is that the government at the same time proposes that individuals who receive services for private use should be excluded. It's unfortunate. With this exception, a large group of vulnerable posted workers fall outside the scope of protection. In concrete terms, it is not least a question of many construction workers who carry out work in the so-called ROT sector, with better provided individuals as clients. It is remarkable that this already heavily subsidised group – homeowners with plenty of porches and kitchens to rebuild – cannot be imposed at least on such a control responsibility. The Left Party has called for the government to come back with proposals in this area, and I therefore call for the Left Party's reservation 2 to be approved. Madam President, I would like It has to be said that the truly startling feature of this report is in reservation No 1 of the parties previously known as the Alliance. A remarkable combination of strong anti-employees and monumental hypocrisy can be found here. The parties mentioned do not just want to reject the government's proposal. They also want Sweden to reintroduce the so-called lex Laval. You need to remind what lex Laval was. The years 2004 – 2005 a Latvian construction company, Laval, carried out work in Vaxholm outside Stockholm. There, Building, as a responsible Swedish trade union will, wanted the company to sign collective agreements. When the company refused to take Building together with Elektrikerförbundet action against the company – also this as a responsible Swedish trade union should do. This was also something that most people saw as an obvious opportunity, not least in the light of the recurring promises made in connection with the Swedish referendum on the European Union, that the fundamental functioning of the Swedish labour market model should be left intact. But that was not the case. The employers' organisation saw a chance to weaken the union's strength in Sweden and took the matter to the EU Court of Justice. In 2007, the shocking decision of the European Court of Justice came that the Swedish trade unions had made a mistake and that they would not have the opportunity to conflict for a comprehensive Swedish collective agreement. As a result, the Court's practice for millions of workers across Europe was different. What happened in Sweden was that we had the great bad luck of having a bourgeois government at the time. Instead of protecting the Swedish model, it took the opportunity to implement more restrictions on conflict law in connection with posting. What is hypocritical here is that, for many years, bourgeois representatives claimed that this was something that was necessary and necessary to adapt to EU law. But that was not true, and in the years that have followed, there have also been many of us, in Sweden and in other EU countries, who have said that the problem of wage dumping in connection with posting is so great that something has to be done about this also at European level. Then it has been said from the bourgeois quarters here at home that we should sit still in the boat for reasons of caution, because it could be even worse for the Swedish model. During the last parliamentary term, it turned out that this did not have to be the case. It was possible to adjust the Posting of Workers Directive at least a little so that the Swedish model could get a little better space. What happens then? In other words, we want to return from the bourgeois side to something that even the European Commission has had to modify. Then suddenly the celebratory words about the EU fall to the ground and are replaced by new calls for supranational aid to weaken the opportunities for vulnerable workers to enjoy the solidarity on which trade union struggles are based everywhere. I hope that all Swedish workers – yes, anyone who understands why it is important to stand up for equal pay for equal work and to combat wage dumping and unfair competition – also remembers this anti-labour position of the right-wing parties.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-914	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, supported by Mr M, Mr C, Mr KD and the Liberals. The so-called Posting of Workers Directive was adopted in 1996. It shall determine the country's working and employment conditions applicable to the posting of workers. It regulates minimum conditions for seconded staff, from one EU country to another. The Government proposal to Parliament, which forms the basis of the report we are debating today, assumes that the Posting of Workers Directive was revised in June 2018. This was aimed at increasing equal treatment between posted and domestic workers in terms of remuneration. This means that we are now widening a very important part of the so-called hard core of conditions. This may sound good at first, but what we are seeing now is a development within the EU in the field of labour market, which I believe threatens the Swedish collective agreement model. There is also a risk that the EU Court of Justice will be able to review Swedish collective agreements. We also have the recent proposal from the European Commission to introduce minimum wages, which pose a further risk to our model. In a number of areas, Madam President, the EU has now begun to intervene more and more in the field of labour markets, for example in the area of wages. It is important that national self-determination is safeguarded. However, since the government has agreed to the so-called social pillar, even though we Christian Democrats warned that the proposals were intended to become directives, we stand where we stand now. The government has failed to protect the Swedish party model. The free movement of goods, services and labour is one of the pillars of European cooperation. The single market within the EU creates the conditions for good economic growth and is necessary at a time when Europe is being challenged by emerging economies in other parts of the world. Following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union – the so-called Laval judgment of 2007, which has been mentioned here earlier today – a number of amendments to the Posting of Workers Act were introduced under the previous Alliance Government to bring it into line with EU law. The so-called lex Laval was intended to preserve the Swedish labour market model in essence while safeguarding the free movement of the European labour market. With the Government's proposal New rules for posting, which the Government presented in 2017, and which were decided in the Riksdag against our advice, the Alliance's former lex Laval was demolished. The government justified the proposal that this should protect posted workers and discourage unfair competition. In all material respects, however, the rules worked well earlier. Nor was the government able to show any serious flaws in the order that was. In its opinion, the Legislative Council criticised the Government's proposal and pointed out that no systematic evaluation of lex Laval had been carried out and that no precise shortcomings in existing law were cited as reasons for the legislative proposals. The government's view of demanding a special collective agreement for posted workers was too far-reaching. With the abolition of the rule of evidence, action can be taken even if the minimum conditions of the so-called hard core are met and only to achieve a specific collective agreement on posting. As a result, a seconding employer will not be able to stop fighting. This makes it less attractive for companies from other countries to come here, which hampers free movement. In addition, abolishing the rule of evidence is very likely to be incompatible with the principles of proportionality and mutual recognition of EU law. The rule of proof was generous to the trade unions, since it provided far-reaching opportunities for workers' organisations to take action as long as a posting employer was unable to demonstrate that the posted workers had essentially equal conditions with Swedish workers in the field of the contract in question. The seconding employer would prove that this was the case and, in other words, it would be beyond reasonable doubt that the conditions were such. It is unclear how the government can make it possible to improve the control possibilities for workers' organisations by removing the rule of proof. Ensuring good conditions for those who work in Sweden is a matter of course, as is compliance with laws and rules. However, the consequences of government policy mean more protectionism and less concern for those who come here to work. Madam President, I would like At the moment in coronatides, there are many exceptions. Freedom of movement has been restricted by various restrictions between EU countries, which is regrettable. In normal times, however, the government has made it difficult for companies from other countries to second personnel to Sweden, which risks hampering free movement. In sectors where Sweden usually has a great need for labour, for example in the construction sector, this can be directly harmful. The new proposal that the government has now made to Parliament on the implementation of the amended Posting of Workers Directive risks, we who support this reservation, to hamper freedom of movement even more than the government has previously done. We believe that the government has opted for an unwarranted far-reaching implementation of the amending directive. One of several areas of concern is the lack of clarity resulting from the transition from the concept of minimum wage to the concept of pay. The scope for combat measures is further increased by opening up the legislative text to combat measures also in the case of non-compulsory wage components. We can also note that the government's proposal in several parts imposes an unjustified administrative burden on employers, for example in connection with the introduction of the employer's obligation to inform employees of the time that others have done the same work in the same workplace. It is unfortunate that neither the government nor the committee sees the need in this area. Overall, we believe that the Government's proposal risks undermining competition and the provision of services. The proposal also opens up the scope for action without the restriction that would have existed under the reintroduction of lex Laval. It is our firm belief that the removal of lex Laval and the Government's proposal for the implementation of the amending directive are not in line with the principles of proportionality and mutual recognition of EU law and that, as I said, it risks hampering free movement. With what has now been said, we reject the proposal and the proposal contained in the report. We believe that the government should return to Parliament with a revised proposal, as has been stated here. The proposal should also include the reintroduction of the regulatory framework in accordance with lex Laval.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-934	Madam President, I would like Today, it is for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, as has been said, this spring's last chamber debate. As a liberal, of course, I am very pleased that this is an EU-related issue on which we have a position. I am less pleased about the majority relationship in the Riksdag at the moment about the posting report, which is about equal conditions for foreign workers who come to Sweden and the Swedish labour market at different times to work and contribute their skills. In fact, however, I am not particularly surprised that the government and, above all, the Social Democrats are now receiving the support of two parties which are not at all opposed to European cooperation. Despite this knowledge, a proposal is being put forward which will hamper freedom of movement. The Swedish Democrats will of course support the bill. But we could hear representatives of the Left Party in the speaker's chair expressing a great deal of dissatisfaction with the proposals that are now being put forward, not because the proposals themselves are too tough and tough and would hit Swedish competitiveness hard, but because they are too powerful. Therefore, it will be reserved once the decision is made in order to pass the bill passively. I think that we must be honest in the debate and emphasise what we intend to do. To be honest, both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party quite often make clear in the debate what their positions are, and that is a good thing. It is good for the Riksdag, and it is good for the parties in the Riksdag to know how different parties approach different questions. It is not enough for the fire support that is now being given to get the report through. Today, it was also possible to read on Expressen's debate page how Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark explains almost war against companies. She insinuated that all companies would be bad guys to be fought. That kind of rhetoric and argumentation is not only worrying, Madam President. This kind of rhetoric, in the long run, also contributes to weakening European cooperation. If we consider European cooperation to be important, not least in these difficult times when Europe as a whole is being tested in the wake of the coronapandemy, we do not put forward proposals of this kind that weaken freedom of movement within the EU. Of course, there should be good conditions on the Swedish labour market. Of course, foreign workers should also be subject to the laws and regulations that exist in our labour market, and no one should have to be exploited. But you can't stand for all this while you pull all the companies together. Madam President, I would like If Europe and Sweden are to cope with this crisis, we must stand up for freedom of movement within the EU. We must stand up for more free trade and more mobility between Member States. That is how we strengthen democracy, and that is how we strengthen the individual's right to decide about his or her own life, whether he or she lives in Sweden, Poland, Italy or Germany. Today's decision is anti-liberal. I am therefore pleased that we Liberals, together with colleagues from the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, have a joint follow-up motion and have reserved us against this decision. I note that the Green Party is not present in this House, and I understand that it is uncomfortable to take part in this debate because otherwise they tend to be warm supporters of free movement. But now they fail in an issue that deals with the possibility for skilled and highly qualified workers to come to Sweden for limited periods to offer their excellence in our labour market. Today's decision in practice means that it will be even more difficult for companies that have a huge need for skilled workers to attract European citizens. It will not feel welcome to Sweden and the Swedish labour market, as opportunities will now be limited. Madam President, I would like The basis for EU cooperation is the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. During economic crises, we need to safeguard the growth and development that free people and free markets contribute to. If Sweden and the EU are to recover from the Corona crisis, more liberal reforms are needed to strengthen economic growth, not any more restrictions. Since 2007, posted workers who have taken collective agreements with them from their home country have been protected from trade unions in Sweden taking action against their workplaces and against companies that actually have orderly forms, just as my colleagues in the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats put forward in the debate. This protection is now in danger of disappearing. It gives a bitter taste, because a number of trade unions– I don't have to mention them, because I think you yourselves know who this is about – the Social Democrats are close. Now they will be given the green light to go out on the hunt for foreign workers as they have done in the 20th century and unfortunately allowed to continue in the 21st century. During the day, some kind of picture has emerged that we Liberals and those of us who are opposed to this proposal would be against the trade unions. That, of course, is not the case. They are important and needed in the Swedish labour market, and they should stand up for workers' interests. But this question is about something else. It is about something more than having order in the Swedish labour market. I am concerned that combat measures will be used as a means to get people out of Sweden. It threatens fundamental freedoms within the EU, and it threatens the competitiveness of Swedish companies. As colleagues mentioned, there are such examples in the housing market. We cannot have a system in which we recognise that there is a large shortage of skilled workers who can be involved in ensuring that more housing is built, while we know that those who are actually involved in building more Swedish homes usually come from other EU countries. You can't just eat the cake and keep it, but you have to decide if you think it's a good order that we have people who can come here and contribute to the shortage industries where the workforce is most needed. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say with pride that the Liberals are Sweden's most pro-European party, and that is because we see the potential of allowing all European citizens to share a free market with each other. Being able to work throughout Europe is the European dream, and that dream will always be defended by the Liberals. That is why I would like to call for the proposal in the report to be rejected and for our joint reservation on the reintroduction of lex Laval. It is a law that gives workers security on the Swedish labour market but limits the union's ability to develop combat axes when it is not called for. I would like to wish the Bureau, the President and all the members of the committee a pleasant summer.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-952	Madam President, I would like There seems to be some misunderstanding. The Left Party, as I said in the speech and as the report also shows, is in favour of the government's proposal in the bill. We intend to vote in favour of it. But we also have further proposals, and they give rise to a reservation. So we do not object to the adoption of the bill. In addition to this, there is a lot of strangeness here. Mrs Avci said in her speech what she had written in a debate article published today: that it is important to protect workers from trade unions. It may not be a new policy, but it is a bit of a linguistic innovation. What they need to be protected from is better wages and working conditions. You don't usually call it protecting someone. It is not usually said that you protect someone from getting the right to health care, for example. I need a better explanation: What is Gulan Avci really saying? They were supposed to be protected from combat. The battle measures are to require their employers to sign collective agreements so that they receive equal wages. In what way does Gulan Avci think it threatens these people? Now it almost sounded like attacking them in the workplace, but that is not how combat measures in the labour market work.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-956	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the question and for the clarification. It is good to have clarity in this debate on important issues. It is good to know that you will vote in favour of the government proposal, but you want to go further. As far as debate articles are concerned, the writer does not represent the title, but what we stand for and what I will continue to maintain is that the restrictions that Ali Ali's party votes through will mean that Sweden loses competitiveness. We will lose very many important and competent workers, coming from other EU countries, in the Swedish labour market. These workers come here, not least, and help us build more housing. As far as I know, Ali Ali's friends tend to point to the need to build more. But this is also a very growth-retardant proposition. We have nothing against – and I hope that Ali Esbati has understood – the further changes required by the European directive. Of course we're behind it. But given the history that exists in Sweden – with trade unions who, at regular intervals, when they get the opportunity, go after foreign workers – the proposal that Ali Ali's party colleagues are now behind does not mean that there will be less hunting for foreign workers in the Swedish labour market. On the contrary, this will mean that we will have fewer competent people who can contribute to the Swedish labour market, because you are scaring them. They do not want to come to Sweden.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-959	Madam President, I would like I do not think that, in general, one is intimidated by organisations that look after one's interests. However, I would like to emphasise that it was not the title of the debate in Aftonbladet that I reacted to, but that is what was in the text. I assume that you yourself have written it. I also reacted to what was said in the speaker's chair – I could at least verify that it was Gulan Avci himself who said that. There was concern from the liberal side about the protection that exists against being affected by time measures. This would, as it were, affect workers. It says: goes into action to protect a worker who is not even a member of a Swedish trade union. This is a little tricky. However, let me note that the concerns of the Liberals are that one would in some way impair Sweden's competitiveness by enabling people who come to Sweden to work to be covered by the same collective agreements as others who work in Sweden to be covered by. On the contrary, I believe that it would strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. Not least, it would make it easier for companies that want to pay reasonable wages, as they are agreed in normative collective agreements. In that case, they are protected from unfair competition from those who want to dump wages and working conditions. Finally, I note that it seems to me to be a liberal view that the housing shortage in Sweden is not due to the fact that people do not want to build housing and do not want to invest in it and that they have some kind of fantasy about market rents instead, but because the construction workers have too high wages. I think that is a position that does not match very well with reality, but I note that it is in the hands of the Liberals.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-963	Madam President, I would like This debate is very clear when it comes to once again being able to note that the Liberals and the Left Party have completely different views on both European cooperation and the conditions that apply to the Swedish labour market. I repeat what I said earlier in the debate. Of course, laws and rules should also apply to those who come to Sweden. Ali Esbati has his way into this debate. He's making repeated attempts to impose on us an imagery that actually doesn't add up. In this way, Ali Esbati is trying to put forward the positions of his party. It's not weird at all, Ali Esbati. You have the free right to do so. However, I still argue that this proposal is very bad for the free market within the EU and for the opportunities for European citizens to cross national borders to work. We do not need less cooperation at a time when we have enormous challenges ahead of us in the wake of the coronapandemy. We need to strengthen European cooperation in order to strengthen growth and get the economy back on track. But we cannot do that by scaring people from coming here and sending a signal to companies that it is not worthwhile bringing foreign workers here with the conditions you are giving them and with the enormous administrative burden. I believe this makes both Sweden and the European Union much poorer, and the kind of policy that the Left Party stands for, I do not think that either Sweden or the European Union need in these challenging times.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-968	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Today we are debating an important bill that will give foreign workers greater protection in Sweden and in the Swedish labour market, while also protecting Swedish labour against wage dumping and social dumping. Today, in other words, we are taking an important step towards creating more order and order in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like We agree that free movement contributes to trade, growth and more jobs. But we can never accept that women and men who come to Sweden to work are being used for lower wages or worse conditions or that freedom of movement prevails the rights of employees and is used as a pretext for dumping wages and conditions on the Swedish labour market. For us Social Democrats, it is obvious that those who work in Sweden should have good and fair conditions in line with Swedish collective agreements, no matter where they come from. That is why we welcome the work of the government, both in this legislative dossier and in general, which is permeated by an effort to achieve more equal treatment between posted and domestic workers while safeguarding the free movement of services. Madam President, I would like The EU Posting Directive has been in place since 1996. In 2004, there was a conflict over what wages Latvian construction workers would have on a construction project in Vaxholm. It was the so-called Laval case where the Swedish Building Workers' Association demanded collective agreements, which Ali Esbati also described well. Since then, one of the biggest labour market issues in the EU has dealt with the conditions for posted workers. In the Laval 2007 case, the European Court of Justice ruled that trade union demands for equal treatment of workers were an obstacle to free movement and were in breach of the EU Posting of Workers Directive. We believe that the verdict was an attack on the Swedish collective agreement model, conflict law and the free right to negotiate. During the previous term of office, the Government therefore amended the Posting of Workers Act to strengthen the position of the collective agreement so that the Swedish labour market model will work better in terms of protection for posted workers. Lex Laval has been demolished, and as of June 2017, Swedish trade unions can always demand a Swedish collective agreement, ultimately with the support of combat measures. Unfortunately, in today's debate we can see that the right-wing parties want to reintroduce lex Laval. An unfounded argument is being made that the current law hampers freedom of movement and makes it less attractive for foreign companies to come to Sweden. However, developments point in the opposite direction. From the Swedish Work Environment Authority's statistics for 2018, we can see that the increase in seconded labour force that year was the largest since the National Posting Register of the Swedish Work Environment Authority was introduced six years ago. In 2018, there were on average more than 16,200 posted workers per month in Sweden, and we see that construction is by far the most common sector for posted workers in Sweden. In 2019 the corresponding figure was 19 000 foreign workers who worked in Sweden for a shorter or longer period. The statistics show that the safe and fair conditions that are the starting point on the Swedish labour market do not hamper the willingness to come to Sweden to work. Although the Posting Register of the Swedish Work Environment Authority does not give the full picture, we believe that developments in the labour market, at least until the Corona crisis, indicate that the conditions offered on the Swedish labour market appeal to posting employers and the workers who come here to work. Madam President, I would like After years of negotiations, the European Parliament was in 2018 able to revise the Posting of Workers Directive, which now entitles posted workers in the EU to pay conditions equivalent to those in force in the country where they work. The Swedish Government was strongly in favour of amending the Posting of Workers Directive so that it would be possible to claim equal pay for foreign and Swedish workers who do the same job. The change in this area can help to focus competition on who does the job best rather than competing with bad conditions. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Riksdag will take the decision to amend the Posting of Workers Act in line with the principle of equal pay for equal work to apply to everyone working in Sweden in accordance with the Posting of Workers Directive and with respect for our labour market model, where the parties decide on wage formation. Madam President, I would like The legislative proposal proposes to tighten up the rules on notification from the first day of secondment. It is important that we keep track of who works in the Swedish labour market. The bill closes the gap that has been found in the register of postings and has prevented employers from reporting directly to the Swedish Work Environment Authority who are working at the workplace. Previously, it has not been necessary to report postings of less than five days. There is reason to assume that this gap has given rise to a significant number of darkness when it comes to postings that are not reported and have made it difficult for our authorities to keep track of who is working in Sweden. This is an important change when it comes to ensuring that everyone who works in Sweden has conditions, salary and a working environment in line with Swedish collective agreements. Madam President, I would like Wages and conditions of employment according to Swedish collective agreements must apply to everyone who works in Sweden. It should not matter where the employee comes from or where the employer is registered. Unserious companies and entrepreneurs who do not pay contractual wages or who in other ways discriminate against employees working in Sweden should not benefit from exercising unfair competition. With enhanced protection in posting, we take further steps to prevent wage dumping and strengthen the ability to achieve equal treatment and fair conditions for all workers, whether it is a concrete worker from Gothenburg or a carpenter from Warsaw. Madam President, I would like With this I would like to thank you for the debate and wish the President and the Bureau a pleasant summer!
i-47f2140eaf963afa-986	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to agree with every word that my Liberal colleague, Gulan Avci, made on the substance of the matter earlier and, of course, with what Mrs Pethrus from the Christian Democrats and Mr Martin Ådahl from the Center Party said. I have two questions for Mr Serkan in the light of the breast tones we have heard here. The prerequisite for the Red-Green Government to get this bill through is to take active support from the Swedish Democrats. My first question is, how does it feel? My second question is: if other parties, such as the Moderates, had done this in this House, would not the Social Democrats have stood and shouted from the rooftops about this? I would like answers to these two questions.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-990	Madam President, I would like It is a little remarkable that a representative of the Moderates is asking me such a question as a social democrat. It was Mats Green's party leader who met the victims of the Holocaust and promised never to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats and then went out and said that one could imagine working with the Swedish Democrats. We do not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, and we have not said that we should cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. In this House, every party is free to vote as it wishes. Let me also remind Mats Green that he got his budget for 2019 through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. That is a clear answer to the first and second questions: we do not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, and we do not ask the Swedish Democrats to vote on our proposals. They can vote as they please. It is Mats Green and Mats Green's party leader who have promised not to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats – a promise you have failed.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-993	I would like to remind you that the debate is about more equal treatment and enhanced protection in the case of secondment.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-994	Madam President, I would like Serkan Köse is still not answering my questions. I note once again that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are taking action together with the Swedish Democrats to enforce this legislation. Had anyone else done that, the Social Democrats would have stood and screamed from the rooftops. I may find it hypocritical and rather remarkable. Serkan Köse is here talking about wage dumping in the light of freedom of movement. If one is to defend the EU, one can well say that the EU has been very clear against wage dumping. There wasn't anything like that before either, so it wasn't true. I'd like Serkan Serkan to develop it. Unfortunately, this proposal is not primarily about concern for workers and Swedish consumers, about fair competition or the Swedish labour market model. This is, above all, a question of extending the possibility for trade unions to take action on a false and disproportionate basis. It is not about the right conditions for workers, but it is more about whether or not there should be a collective agreement. Don't stand here and say it's about something else! That is remarkable and regrettable, Madam President. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President and my colleagues in the debate and in this House a really good and pleasant summer under the circumstances.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-998	Madam President, I would like The proposal deals with more equal treatment and enhanced protection in the case of posting. Mats Green's party introduced lex Laval, where the possibilities to guarantee equal conditions for foreign workers on temporary work in Sweden were limited, and so I wonder why Mats Green and the Moderates do not want the Swedish trade unions to ensure that the posting employers in Sweden comply with the terms of Swedish collective agreements. Unlike Mats Green, I stand up for Swedish employees. It was we who demolished lex Laval, and we want Swedish salaries to apply in Sweden. Employers should not use foreign labour to reduce Swedish wages. Mats Green has no way of answering the question, but he can do so at any other time. Therefore, I would like to send a question to Mats Green. Why do Mats Green and the Moderates not stand up for Swedish employees and for Swedish wages to apply in Sweden? I also wish Mats Green a pleasant summer.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-1003	Madam President, I would like I am interested in the work of the European Union, and this is a European issue. I have accused the European Union here of intervening too much in labour market policy and the social pillar. We agree on minimum wages. We do not want Europe to regulate these issues because we want to safeguard our collective agreement model. I react when Serkan Köse says that the EU has previously dumped salaries in Sweden. Serkan Köse continues to say that there will now be Swedish wages. But it's not really right. The European Court of Justice found in lex Laval was that it had complied with collective agreements which set the lowest level. The lowest collective agreement is a Swedish salary. There is nothing else we can say. Trade unions would then report to the Swedish Work Environment Authority collective agreement conditions with the lowest level, but Building has been contradictory here and not done so. There was even an investigation in order to propose sanctions against trade unions which did not submit a notification. There are several hundred collective agreements. It is not reasonable for these posting companies in other countries to be able to comply with all collective agreements. That is why it was a question of finding a collective agreement that they were not allowed to perish. So you didn't get paid dumping. That's why I'm reacting when Serkan Köse says you've previously had pay dumping. Is it reasonable to say that?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-1009	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Pethrus for raising the issue. I believe that development contributed to wage dumping in the Swedish labour market. If you go out to a construction site in Sweden you can clearly see what it looks like. People live in barracks, have shitty conditions, wages and work environment. Companies exploit the weakness of these people. That is what I said in my speech. And it leads to unhealthy competition. Serious entrepreneurs who want to do the right thing, who have collective agreements and the right conditions for their workers, are being competed out by these companies. Although it is said that there are no rogue companies, there are many companies that take advantage of people's weakness. Many of those who come to Sweden want to work and fight to make a living. I agree when Mrs Pethrus believes that the EU does not have the power to set wage levels in the Member States. We agree, and we think it is important that this issue is up to each Member State and every model. We will continue to push for the Swedish labour market model nationally and within the framework of EU cooperation. First of all, let me highlight a number of things that are still about the social pillar, as Mrs Pethrus mentioned. The European social pillar is an important political step, which is that economic policy and social considerations must go hand in hand. The pillar is not legally binding but is a declaration of intent setting objectives in 20 different policy areas. For example, women and men should be treated equally, everyone should have the right to good education and that everyone should receive health care at the right time of good quality, unemployment benefits and so on. The pillar also states that wage formation...
i-47f2140eaf963afa-1016	Madam President, I would like I was looking for the question of dumping wages. That argument has been widely used in the debate. And that's not true. These were, of course, the minimum collective agreement conditions. It is therefore a question of a Swedish salary negotiated between the parties. It was the one you were not allowed to perish, and it was permitted to take action if you perished. In the question of lex Laval they wanted Stockholm salaries. It can be discussed. Should all posting employers be able to all contracts throughout Sweden? There are several hundred agreements in the labour market. What is reasonable for entrepreneurs to post? The social pillar is about many fine words. But we warned the Prime Minister – especially with regard to minimum wages where we agree – that the EU said that on these issues there will be directives and legislation. When I said this in the debate, the Prime Minister said that the social pillar means fine plans that we should all work on. However, it has now become apparent that one legislation after another is presented, such as quotas in parental insurance. It is a question of which we want to govern ourselves. Is Mr Serkan not concerned that the EU is taking over more and more of labour market policy? Does Serkan Köse share my concern in that area?
i-47f2140eaf963afa-1020	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Pethrus for the question. I would like to say a few words about the pillar, and then I will answer Mrs Pethrus's questions. It is clear from the wording on the social pillar that wage formation remains a matter for the Member States and that the right of the social partners to collective agreements must be respected. It's clear in the writings. As I mentioned earlier, we believe that the EU should not have the power to set wage levels in the Member States. We believe that a directive on minimum wages would pose a serious threat to the Swedish collective agreement model. We will work to ensure that the Swedish labour market model is safeguarded within EU cooperation. We'll take that fight.
i-47f2140eaf963afa-1024	Madam President, I would like I would first like to thank the other parties for showing that the Swedish Democrats are a central party in the Swedish Parliament. Last week we got barking from the left, and today we get barking from the right. That confirms the thesis. Madam President, I would like The starting point of Sweden's democrats is always that social issues, such as labour law rules, should not be dealt with at EU level but should continue to be national issues. It is important to highlight this issue. For the Swedish Democrats, it is obvious that the same working conditions should apply to all employees working in Sweden. We have been very consistent in our policy to strengthen the protection of workers and maintain the Swedish model. It is therefore welcome to us, Madam President, that the government has taken a step in this direction. That is why we have chosen not to present our own proposal here today. However, as our special opinion shows, we want more to be done from the government's side. We will not let the issue go, because the basis is that we want to see a change in labour market policy that is means-tested and nationally managed and not, as it is today, a purely competitive factor in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like What gets a little strange in the debate is that the government largely commends the introduction of the social pillar but has a different view on this issue, which is largely concerned by the pillar. On the other hand, we have several parties which have been very sceptical about the social pillar and have stressed the importance of national competences, but which here instead praise free movement across Europe's borders – the foundation on which the whole social pillar is based. For the Swedish Democrats, it is obvious that Swedish labour market policy should be based on national rules and not adapted to other countries. It is also about lost tax revenue, distorted competition and more, things that will eventually affect Swedish welfare. Here it would be desirable for more parties to be made clear in their positions. Do you want more power for the EU or greater national self-determination? Since the Swedish Democrats believe that this proposal from the government is a small step on the road to a Swedish democratic labour market policy, we support the proposal. I was going to stop there, Madam President. But I do not, because I have listened to the debate here. It doesn't bother me, but I get a little confused about how far away from reality are many parties. It highlights the construction sector as a clear example of the importance of seconded workers. Yes, seconded workers in the construction sector are good when we do not have enough construction workers. But before the pandemic, the construction sector began to slow down. It began to be given notice, and those who were first told are Swedish construction workers. They are replaced by seconded workers – a purely competitive factor. This I know, because I procured quite a few jobs during the last recession. I lost many contracts, partly because cheap seconded workers competed for Swedish labour. Wages are being discussed, and we heard – I believe it was from the Christian Democrats – that an agreement on the Swedish minimum wage has been negotiated. Yes, that's right. According to Building, it is about SEK 137 per hour that it is enough to pay out to seconded workers. The cut salary in Sweden for a Swedish construction worker is SEK 203 per hour. There's a difference of 66 kroner. There we have a huge competitive factor, especially when there is less to do and fewer jobs. I think this is a good proposal, and I welcome it. It should be competition on equal terms, and low wages should not be used as a purely competitive factor. But it is important to see the problems on both sides, both on the part of employees and on the part of businesses. Now the Center Party has left – unfortunately, because I had a couple of questions for Martin Ådahl. From there one sees quite clearly a form of contempt for the employees side, and I find that a bit boring. Policy must be based on the views of both sides. Above all, it cannot just be based on a newsletter from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I support the proposal.
