i-ecb950eda740268d-1	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Justice Committee's report 2020/ 21:JuU2 Extended right of inquiry for the Customs Agency. I support the committee's proposal in the report. We Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have a special opinion. It is our view that the Swedish Customs Administration's law enforcement activities are of great importance, and the proposals now put forward by the Government extend the Swedish Customs' right to initiate preliminary investigations. We believe that, for the reasons set out in the bill, the Riksdag should adopt the Government's legislative proposal. The committee also proposes a minor editorial adjustment to the legislative text. The proposed extension of the Customs Authority's right of preliminary investigation is a step in the right direction. The law enforcement activities of the Customs Authority need to be further strengthened. Not least, the Customs Agency must be given better opportunities to prevent stolen goods from being taken out of the country. This work is ongoing both within the agency and within the Government Office. This would be an effective measure to combat foreign theft gangs committing crimes in Sweden. The Customs Agency should therefore be empowered to stop and seize suspected stolen goods at the border. Such increased powers have been requested by the Customs Agency itself as well as by the Police Authority and the Coast Guard. As can be seen, the Riksdag has also previously made an announcement to the Government to urgently investigate an increased authority for the Customs Agency to stop and detain goods pending their surrender to the police. In the Committee's view, it is important that an increased authority for the Customs Agency to stop and seize suspected stolen goods at the border should be in place as soon as possible. In addition, the Customs Office's law enforcement mission should be strengthened. In addition to the urgent needs, there is a strong indication that the Swedish Customs Administration will need a number of additional tools in the future to combat the crime that has become increasingly international. I hope that together we can continue to fight crime.
i-7dKFPa4zizDSqaudjmir1g	Madam President, I would like The report that the Riksdag is debating and is about to decide on today concerns the Government proposal for an extended right of inquiry for the Swedish Customs Agency and two follow-up motions by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. The extended right of preliminary investigation gives the Finnish Customs the right to initiate preliminary investigations also regarding offences such as possession or use of narcotics, possession of doping agents and possession of dangerous goods. It is wise to give the Customs Agency an increased right of inquiry, and it is a united committee that supports the proposal. But that's not enough. The Swedish Customs' law enforcement mission needs to be strengthened considerably more, not least in order to stop the ravages of foreign theft gangs in Sweden. Foreign theft leagues account for a large number of housing breaches and a majority of other gross thefts of car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery. However, despite calls from law enforcement authorities, the Customs Authority still lacks the power to stop stolen goods from being taken out of the country. According to the police, the progress of the theft gangs will continue. According to Svensk Försäkring, stolen goods are taken annually to a value of SEK 1 – 2 billion out of the country. In addition to economic value, this is a gross violation of privacy. It is about burglaries in cars and so on, which affects a large number of people in Sweden. Large profits, low detection risk and low penalties are a major contributory factor in the fact that the gangs of theft are ravaging Sweden. The Customs Agency therefore needs to be given the power to stop stolen goods at the border. It is a measure that would be effective in counteracting the theft leagues by severely restricting their ability to operate in Sweden. The increased possibilities for the Customs Agency have long been asked for, and it is time for them to come into place. We Moderates want to strengthen the Swedish Customs' law enforcement mission. In addition to the possibility of stopping stolen goods at the border, a number of additional tools are needed to combat the crime that has become increasingly international. We therefore want to see a comprehensive review of the Agency's capacity to combat crime. It is gratifying that it is a united committee that proposes that the Riksdag approve the two motions of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats and directs an announcement to the government to strengthen the Swedish Customs Agency's law enforcement activities. Nevertheless, I note that it is not with much enthusiasm that the Social Democrats support the announcement. I fully understand this, because once again it becomes clear that we have a government that is unable to deliver greater security and security to the citizens. As early as 2015, the police found that foreign theft leagues account for a very significant proportion of the theft crimes in Sweden, and the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement to the Government about giving the Swedish Customs Authority the power to stop and detain goods at the border. But very little happens. The government has not set up an investigation that can propose sharp legislative changes to overcome the problem. The Minister of Finance refers to the ongoing work on a memorandum in the Government Office. However, no timetable is presented to the Riksdag. Reference is also made to the agency's own work and cooperation with the authorities. Of course, it is important that the agency does what it can within its powers to prevent this type of crime, and cooperation between authorities is often a powerful tool. However, the effective achievement of objectives also requires that the authorities have the right tools in the form of effective legislation. The Social Democrats are still guilty of the answer. When we can have new legislation in place that gives Customs the right to stop stolen goods from being taken out of the country?
i-ecb950eda740268d-18	Madam President, I would like It's Friday night. They had just gone to bed. Earlier this autumn's first snow-mixed rain had fallen. Now that the leaves are gone, you can see the neighbor's knot lamp. It's no closer than that to the neighbor. They still live on the farm, even though they're getting a little frail. They have been retired for a few years, but they thrive so well. This place is their home and their security, and it has also been their livelihood. They have lived on what the farm has given. Here they have seen their children grow up. It would bear them against moving, but for practical reasons they have considered it. Their son lives 70 miles [120 km] away in Jönköping, and he also contacted me a few years ago. The couple woke up because the light on the outhouse goes off. It is a so-called proximity relay, i.e. when someone comes near the light is lit. Someone's there. They called the police, but the police couldn't make it. It was Friday night, and then the police had to stand outside a dance restaurant and see that nothing happened there. The police couldn't leave. The couple went down and looked for the door to be locked, and that was it. The lamp went out after a while, but they didn't dare go out and look. Nor could they go back to sleep. They cooked some coffee and spread each of their sandwich. Then there was perhaps a few hours of sleep. The next day they called the son, who came and looked. Something was gone. This happened a few years ago, so I can't remember exactly what was stolen. This affects so many people. When I took over as a legal spokesperson in 2014, it was just about events like this that people started to contact me. These are many centre-controlled municipalities in sparsely populated areas where the nearest police force is far away and where people do not feel seen by the judiciary. Insecureness has grown since then. This is a major concern. We took hold of this and started traveling around to meet entrepreneurs, police and victims. One felt a great frustration. Despite the feeling that there was a good evidence situation – there were pictures in mobile phones, car registration numbers and descriptions – the investigations were suspended due to a lack of reconnaissance, as it was called, although they thought there were a lot of reconnaissance ideas. It went so far as to take the law into their own hands and commit other crimes against people suspected of committing these thefts. That, of course, is not good either. At this point, confidence in the rule of law is under threat, and that is a serious matter. The rule of law is a foundation of democracy, and we must preserve it. We were thinking about why it's like this. We concluded that the prosecutors, and perhaps the police, probably think it is too low a penalty for these crimes. Every crime individually is not so seriously measured in economic terms, but when it is piled up and creates insecurity in a whole town, it becomes a serious violation, a serious threat, to security that must be fought. Our idea was to try to tighten up the penalties, increase the penalty value, by addressing just that kind of systematic theft. We came back to the Justice Committee on the matter and got with us the other alliance parties, who thought we had a good idea. We subsequently also had the rest of the Committee on Justice with us, and then, when the matter was examined in the Chamber, we obtained a majority for it. This happened in 2015. Now the government is telling us that it is a product on its way, and that is very welcome. But five years have passed, and it's a couple of years too late. We should have done this sooner. But better late than never! This was a component. Another element is precisely what we are discussing today, namely the powers of customs. When they see that stolen goods are about to leave the country, they should be able to intervene. Things have improved in some places. It is also essential that customs-police cooperation works, and so is cross-border cooperation. Sometimes the police may not make it to a port, but they can alert their colleagues on the other side of the water so they can take other theft leagues. It is very much about spreading awareness and having international cooperation through Europol in particular. Europol has been very useful in its work and has broken a couple of leagues that have ravaged the coast of Norrland with the help of Europol's opportunities for cooperation. It's extremely important. Another important factor is police capacity. One reason why you don't get on the alarm when the older couple feels anxious, someone breaks into their outhouse, is that you have to stand somewhere else. There are too little police muscle that can create security in the local communities. One of the most important points in the January agreement is 10 000 more police staff so that you have time to go on the alarm even when the older couple calls.
i-ecb950eda740268d-31	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the proposed extension of the Customs Authority's right of preliminary investigation is a step in the right direction. We also believe that the customs authorities' law enforcement activities need to be further strengthened. Not least, the Customs Agency must be given better opportunities to prevent stolen goods from being taken out of the country. This would be an effective measure to counter the foreign theft gangs that commit crimes in Sweden. International crime networks account for a large part of the offence in Sweden. The Police Authority estimates that international crime networks account for nearly half of the housing breaches and almost all organised thefts of, for example, passenger cars, car parts and boat engines. International crime networks are also responsible for extensive shoplifting, pocket theft and old age crimes. The success of thefts costs victims and insurance companies billions of dollars annually. They also contribute to increased insecurity and increasing frustration over the inability of the authorities to address the problem. The work against theft leagues is an important task for our legal society, and it is necessary for authorities to cooperate and for further measures to be taken to break the escalating trend in the activities of theft leagues in Sweden. The Customs Agency is an authority that can contribute important contributions to the work, and I can see a need for changed rules and a clearer and extended mission description to make customs' work more efficient. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to strengthen customs law enforcement and border protection. The Customs Office is currently too heavily focused on being just a tax collection authority with the main task of controlling the importation of excisable goods and collecting tax. They are also looking for drugs and illegal weapons, but customs has too little authority. It is part of that chain that has made Sweden called a sandwich table for international theft leagues. Only 3 per cent of burglaries in Sweden are cleared. Customs is today forced to watch suspicious stolen goods leave the country and lacks a clear mandate in the regulation letter to check their exit. Customs needs to become, to a greater extent, a border protection authority that can prosecute all types of offences at the border. In particular, exports of goods should be subject to much stricter controls. Our borders have become increasingly porous, even though we find ourselves geographically in a favourable situation with long coastlines. The poor border protection is one reason why the number of burglaries is so high and that the clearance is so low. Madam President, I would like We must strengthen the powers of the Customs Agency by means of a number of reforms. Customs should be given a clearer and expanded mandate. It is a fact that both individuals and entrepreneurs are severely affected both economically and operationally when theft leagues are operating in our country and there is a flow of stolen goods across borders. I would like to give an example from reality. At the end of last year, I met an Ica trader who has its business close to the Norwegian border. He has been affected several times by burglary and theft with both high costs and impact on his business. His direct message to me was to ensure that customs tightens up control at the border because the stolen goods from his shop leave Sweden this way. It is a problem that he shares with many citizens and businesses in our country. The closed borders at the moment due to the Corona situation have reduced the crime of theft in our country. The reason is probably that theft leagues can no longer travel in the same way between countries. It shows the need for greater control at the border so that the theft leagues do not start operating in the same way again when the pandemic drops its grip. We Christian Democrats show with our proposals that we are prepared to give the Customs Agency a clear direction, but it can be said that until now the clear activity in real action has not been taken by the government, despite the fact that there are a number of announcements from the Riksdag. It is indeed time for a change to take place. Madam President, I would like At the Swedish Parliament's Question Time on 25 May this year, Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg stated that the Government will come back with proposals for changes that will give the Swedish Customs new powers regarding the possibility of preventing theft leagues from taking stolen goods out of the country. In response to a written question from my side in June, Magdalena Andersson, who is responsible for the Swedish Customs Agency, states that the issue of giving the Swedish Customs Agency more power to intervene in the exit of suspected stolen goods is currently being prepared within the Government Office and that a memorandum is being developed. My invitation is that the Government listens to the Riksdag's announcement and implements the mission to give Tullverket the opportunity to be an active party in counteracting international theft leagues' activities in Sweden. It would have been interesting to hear the government representative in this debate, Inga-Lill-Lill Sjöblom, clarify this. Will the Riksdag receive a bill with proposals to give the Swedish Customs increased powers this autumn, and what increased powers will be proposed? Madam President, I would like I am pleased that a majority of the committee has supported an announcement stating that it is urgent that increased authority for the Customs to stop and seize suspected stolen goods at the border should be in place as soon as possible. I would like to conclude by saying that the law enforcement activities of the Customs Department are of great importance. Although the proposals put forward extend the Customs Agency's right to initiate preliminary investigations, it is important that we also have the opportunity to put more stop to stolen goods at our border. That is why I support the announcement made by the committee.
i-ecb950eda740268d-46	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an exciting debate so far on an important subject for us and, I believe, many voters. We liberals are in the heart and soul of cosmopolitans. We see ourselves as part of the world. We like to travel and discover new things. We're not afraid of new impressions. We like to take things home from our trips, here to Sweden. I think that's basically how to build a strong society – by finding puzzle pieces from all over the world and collecting them here in our little corner of the big world. I think that's how we humans can grow – by meeting each other in the world, by sharing each other's cultures and by impressions and expressions around our earth and by building something of our own here at home. Madam President, I would like We Liberals should be honest that quite a lot has gone our way for quite a few years now. The world has become more and more globalised. Sweden has become a part of the big world to a greater and greater degree, and it is so amazing. That's so good, because we'd never make it alone. People who think that Sweden can be a small isolated click at the top of the north or who think that you can lock yourself in their apartment on Södermalm or in their cottage outside Söderhamn, they are wrong. We must be part of the world; that is the only way we can build both prosperity in culture and prosperity in the economy. But, Madam President, when the world is increasingly open, when people and businesses, goods, capital and services move freer, those parts of society – rather small but yet – that engage in light-hearted activities will also move freer. That is why it will be important that, while continuing to push for Sweden to become even more a part of the world and at the same time continuing to pay tribute to the increase in prosperity and the increase in culture and other things brought about by globalisation, we ensure that those parts of society that curb the elements that exploit globalisation for obscure purposes are strengthened. Madam President, I would like It is for this reason that it has been important for us Liberals to ensure that customs is also strengthened in the process of strengthening the whole legal chain. When we talk about the whole legal chain, it may be about more policemen, but we have also pushed for and got more customs officials. It'll be an incredibly important part. However, if we are to have more customs officials, it is of course absolutely crucial that those customs officials have the powers and resources to do good work. It would be unreasonable, Madam President, not to do both at the same time. That is why this proposal is very good. There are still a lot of people in this country, perhaps especially among those who do not themselves engage in crime, who believe that customs officials are some Kling and Klang who are in the ferry terminal when you might have bought a 75 too much and are a little noyy. But that is not modern customs. Modern customs operations are a sophisticated intelligence activity. It is a business where you go on tips and intelligence and build a likely case because someone is smuggling large quantities of, for example, weapons or drugs or something else that we do not want into this country. Then it becomes clear that when customs have that kind of capacity, when they have shown that they are good at intelligence and at finding the really ugly fishermen, it is reasonable that they should have greater powers to start preliminary investigations, for example. In the process of strengthening the legal chain, customs and police work closely together; we have been involved in this debate. There is now another new project in customs, a test, where you not only catch someone or hold someone and wait for the police to come but instead go side by side. It can also be a way of solving this. However, if we want to strengthen the legal chain and use the resources that we are actually investing in, such as more customs officials, it is important that what customs does also be a relief for the police. It will be if customs itself can initiate preliminary investigations if that mandate is extended. Madam President, I would like We Liberals are very happy that customs is doing such a fantastic job. We are pleased that we have succeeded in strengthening the whole chain of justice. We are pleased that we have more customs officials, and we are pleased that we will see extended powers – with this proposal extended the right of investigation. Sweden must be a part of the world, and my experience is that in order to continue with globalisation and continue to expand Sweden's role in the world and the world's role in Sweden, we also need to make sure that we get the most ugly fish. I support the proposal.
i-ecb950eda740268d-55	Madam President, I would like This matter is a matter of national security, albeit only as a small facet of something that must become a bigger picture. With this addition to the EU regulation on foreign direct investment, Sweden appoints a public authority to follow up its contact point. It will be ISP, the Inspection of Strategic Products, which already today maintains supervision of Swedish defence equipment exports. This is in accordance with what the Moderates previously indicated and desired. It is also in line with the announcement made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on moderate initiative during the early summer and made by the House on 4 June. The Swedish Parliament's call was then that the government should urgently implement measures to enable scrutiny of foreign investments in areas worthy of protection. Then there was a lot of media attention to this. At that time, not only one but two ministers came to the Foreign Affairs Committee to account for the position of the government. Now, when the matter is to be settled, the government's bench is empty. Madam President, I would like Since the breakdown of the Swedish Transport Agency a few years ago, I have worked with Swedish security and consistently demanded greater awareness of these important issues. This is true even today when the Riksdag supports this element. More measures and decisions will be required. By November next year, the major investigation will be presented, which hopefully can take a broader approach to this with foreign direct investment and the risks of foreign interests buying up companies with know-how and products that in the wrong hands can be harmful to Sweden or our friends in the long term. Madam President, I would like It is almost 20 years since the People's Republic of China joined the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. It was a period of optimism and hope for increased trade liberalisation. Globalisation in recent decades has been the most important force for prosperity and global development that the world has seen. Today, in the free world, we face the crucial issue of the development of world trade. Two systems are increasingly opposed: the Chinese state-aided economic model and the Western free market economy. Madam President, I would like We must stand up for our values here, while at the same time protecting our interests. Trade policy developments over the last few decades very well characterise our approach to the issue of foreign direct investment. Our Swedish ability to attract investment is an important factor in our country's prosperity and well-being. However, while Sweden is one of the most free trade-oriented countries in the world, we need a firm determination in our ability to meet the risks arising from investments in strategic sectors and infrastructure. Foreign direct investment cannot and must not be allowed to threaten Swedish security interests. The Moderates have been a leading force in Swedish politics to put in place a national regulatory framework and tools to review and ultimately stop inappropriate direct investment. We have pushed the issue of a coordinated EU line. The demands we raised already in the spring of 2018 are in many ways the basis for the Government starting an investigation into the issues a year and a half later. Thus, we now welcome the fact that the government is proposing additional provisions for the EU regulation on foreign direct investment. The Moderates also welcome the proposal that the ISP be the designated authority – the contact point. While emphasising that the ISP is a competent authority in matters relating to security and defence, war equipment and dual-use items, there is reason to point out what we Moderates are raising in our reservation, which I now also wish to support: ISP must have access to greater financial expertise than it is today in order to be able to solve the task fully as a point of contact. We have examples from the banking sector where there are unimaginable billions of dollars washed clean in various scandals when money has been flown from pockets where it has ended up while the populations of different countries have been deprived of their assets by oligarchs and political leaders. There is reason to believe that hostile takeovers disguised as investments from abroad may have as clever a structure and consist of as many financial tentacles. The Moderates have also pushed the question of ISP's ability to focus signal intelligence, which was previously supported by the Riksdag. This issue is once again brought up to date with this new mission. Madam President, I would like The broad Swedish support for the rules-based trading regime is a strength. Sweden stands up for free trade in the world. It also obliges us to have sufficient capacity to meet challenges and threats linked to foreign direct investment. These are issues that we will continue to discuss in this House with great interest in the future. Next, we are talking about the proposal that came up yesterday concerning measures to protect the transfer of security-sensitive activities. And, Madam President, perhaps some minister will come to the House to decide that question.
i-ecb950eda740268d-69	Madam President, I would like It is very welcome that today we are debating and deciding on supplementary provisions for the EU regulation on foreign direct investment. On the Swedish Democrats' side, we believe that the proposal is good but should be supplemented by a few things. I will come back to these. We Swedish democrats tabled a motion on this subject last year, in which we wanted to limit the possibility for non-democratic totalitarian regimes to acquire companies and other socially critical functions in infrastructure, from IT and telecoms to physical infrastructure. In our motion we write: a large-scale and far-reaching strategic investment from Chinese actors is today a security risk that has been allowed for many years to go unnoticed and without further security policy assessment from the Swedish side. Examples of Chinese economic policy interests vary from the acquisition of Volvo to medical research, to interests of a more geopolitical nature in Swedish ports and telecommunications networks such as within 5G. ..................................................... We also explain why the Chinese regime's ambitions for increased power through economic and political influence over central social functions in our part of the world represent a real threat to our free society. ..................................................... We must of course ensure that Swedish socially critical companies and Swedish technology that can be used for military purposes do not end up in the hands of non-democratic totalitarian regimes. Säpo has seen several examples of how Sweden has been ill-equipped for the China issue. The state-owned companies Imego and Norstel, which develop and manufacture advanced semiconductors, are two examples of Swedish companies that were already acquired by Chinese operators a few years ago. However, I note in this context, Madam President, that the other parties did not consider this to be so urgent as late as 1 April this year, but voted down our proposal on the grounds that last year the Parliament decided on legislative changes concerning protective objects and unmanned vehicles. It was also considered that this was a first step towards better protection of total defence activities, but several important proposals from the parliamentary committee that worked on the issues remain. Since they are in preparation and the committee does not believe that there is reason to anticipate future legislative changes in this area, the committee rejects all requests for motion. ..................................................... It was the opinion of the Committee on Defence and the draft decision that the other parties in this House supported as late as 1 April this year. When I asked a question the previous year to Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan concerning the sale of state companies and sensitive technology to foreign powers, he referred to the ongoing state investigation and the last year's security regulation. The government has been slow on these issues, to say the least, and has shown a naivety. Then came covid-19, and suddenly there was speed on the other parties, especially when it became clear that Chinese companies started buying up companies that suffered badly from the pandemic. The Moderates raised a committee initiative just over a month after they voted down our proposal with reference to ongoing investigations. But of course we welcome the fact that the other parties have now come to life and that the government has also made progress in drawing up supplementary regulations so that the regulation in this area can quickly be put in place. However, as I said at the outset, Madam President, we believe that the proposal should include further additions. We would like to remind you that a new regulation is not enough, but it is ultimately the effective control and implementation that is crucial. Here there are shortcomings in the Government's proposal, which risks creating a control that is not as effective as it could be. In particular, we believe that for a long time security policy competence has been neglected by the Office of Strategic Products Inspection, which is proposed to be entrusted with the task of carrying out the control of foreign direct investment. This was last noticed in 2017 by the Swedish National Audit Office, which described how ISP has stated that they find it difficult to recruit and retain specialist expertise. Unfortunately, sufficient measures have not yet been taken, and it is now high time that the government ensures that this competence exists when the agency now receives new and expanded tasks that are of great importance for Sweden's security. Furthermore, we attach great importance to the careful examination of foreign direct investment and the timely access of the ISP to relevant data from the companies concerned. We therefore believe that it is not reasonable for companies to be able to appeal against decisions to provide information or documents. We have carefully considered the objections to this but have concluded that Sweden's security policy interests weigh most heavily. The Moderates' follow-up motion addresses relevant points that we also support, not least regarding the importance of providing financial competence to the ISP in order to solve the new tasks that the agency is entrusted with. It is our view that this is also recognised by the government, as the new tasks specifically require financial competence and that this has not previously existed in the agency. The Moderates' follow-up motion also addresses the Riksdag's earlier announcement from 2018 about ISP's ability to focus signal intelligence. We think it is very good that the Moderates raise and remind the government of the need to act on this issue. It is not reasonable that it should take up to two years for the government to return to the Riksdag on what measures are being taken in relation to Sweden's security. Finally, Madam President, we welcome the Government's proposal, but we believe that it should be supplemented by the things I have just explained. Of course, we agree with all our reservations in the report, but for time we only ask for reservation 3.
i-ecb950eda740268d-84	Madam President, I would like The Covid-19 epidemic affects our society in a variety of ways. One of the effects – especially initially – was that the economic downturn caused by the epidemic created uncertainty around companies and their future business opportunities. This led to a sharp decline in stock exchange prices. Businesses simply became cheaper. It was even a sale of Swedish companies but also companies globally. On sale it quickly becomes the buyer's market, and it can be quick to sell out what exists – too fast. It was precisely this risk that became apparent in the spring, especially in the case of security-related companies. It is therefore companies whose operations are vital for Swedish security and who cannot simply accept that they have any foreign owners and in some cases not foreign owners at all. We simply must not be naive. Already a year before the outbreak of the Corona epidemic in Sweden and other parts of Europe, an EU regulation was adopted to establish a framework for examining foreign direct investment. In August 2019, the Swedish Government appointed a special investigator, Sten Heckscher, to investigate, among other things, which foreign direct investment should be subject to rules of scrutiny, under which conditions foreign direct investment should be hindered and which existing authority should be responsible for reviewing these investments. In March this year, the investigator submitted an interim report on supplementary provisions to the EU Regulation on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). The interim report proposes the introduction of a new law which includes, among other things, provisions for the government's authority to be the contact point under the regulation and for the contact point to have certain specific powers. The interim report proposes that the inspection of strategic products, ISP, should be Sweden's contact point under the regulation. That is also the government's proposal in the proposal that we are debating and taking a position on here today. During the spring, the Moderates raised the question that the Riksdag should make an announcement to the Government that the Government should return to the Riksdag as soon as possible with proposals for measures to allow scrutiny of foreign direct investment. This was supported by a united Foreign Affairs Committee at the beginning of June, and the Parliament decided on 16 June in accordance with the committee's proposal. The committee has been informed by ministers Mikael Damberg and Anna Hallberg of what the government is doing and intends to do. On 4 June, the Government sent a referral to the Legislative Council on the legislation that then became the Government's proposal in a bill to the Riksdag on 2 July. This bill has been a matter of urgency for all the parties here in the Parliament in order to ensure that the new legislation enters into force as quickly as possible. On 1 November, the law can enter into force. This is one of the several steps that need to be taken to strengthen the regulatory framework for foreign direct investment in security-sensitive companies. It is both gratifying and a strength for Sweden that we can deal politically with such a situation quickly, resolutely and legally. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report.
i-ecb950eda740268d-89	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the positive, and that is exactly what Annika Strandhäll points out, namely that the Riksdag has in every way tried to act as quickly as it can. We have the debate today after we have fast-forwarded this – and I think we should describe it – through the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I think that's good. I think it is excellent that the law can enter into force on 1 November. Madam President, I would like Annika Strandhäll says that it's a matter of not being naive – I really agree with that. And we're not supposed to be gentle-- that's what I agree with. Then I wonder how Annika Strandhäll thinks from the social democratic perspective, now that there is no minister in place who wants to defend her proposal. Can Annika Strandhäll shed some light on the fact that the investigator, Sten Heckscher, will leave her final report only in November 2021? That means, with all the legal advice processes and some other things, that we may have legislation in place before the 2022 elections, but surely it is not. Is this the Social Democrats' definition of not being slow and not being naive? Madam President, I would like ISP is the authority that becomes the contact point. We think that this is good in many ways precisely because we have knowledge of, not least, defence equipment sales. But there is a lack of financial competence, as we Moderates have pointed out. Do not the Social Democrats see any problem with this type of direct investment taking the form of rather difficult economic business and, as I mentioned in my speech, using financial tentacles? This should involve the provision of financial competence.
i-ecb950eda740268d-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for your reflections! That is why I stated in my speech that the government had already appointed Sten Heckscher in August 2019. I also believe that we must respect the complexity of the issue and that we need to work through it in a way that we can all feel safe with. Now we have this in place on 1 November, on which we all agree. There is an urgency in this. And, as I said, not least Minister Mikael Damberg has been on several occasions on the Foreign Affairs Committee. There has been every opportunity to ask him the questions. He's explained the process. My view is that on these occasions the committee has also been satisfied with the report made by the Minister for the Interior. As regards the question of financial competence, this is how it is: According to the form of government, it is the government or the authorities that are under the government that decides on the organisation and distribution of resources by the authorities. It is also the case that the budget proposal for 2021 proposes an increase of ISP's administrative grant of SEK 4 million for the assignment as a contact point. In this way, the ISP will have the opportunity, if necessary, to strengthen its organisation and competence in order to carry out its new task.
i-ecb950eda740268d-95	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that we should underestimate the ability of foreign powers to come up with clever arrangements if they really want to engage in hostile takeovers. 4 million is beautiful so, but I'm not quite sure that it covers skills to avoid that kind of tentacles. I think that, as Annika Strandhäll points out, one should have respect for the complexity of the issue. But, Madam President, the extent of time should not be overlooked either. If the investigation was set up in 2019 and is expected to deliver its findings in November 2021 and legislation can start to be worked out in the Riksdag after the hearing of the Law Council sometime in 2022, one must consider where the balance is between time and delivery. Then it is quite right that Annika Strandhäll points out that Mikael Damberg has attended a number of committee meetings, but I note that he is not in the Chamber today to defend his proposal.
i-ecb950eda740268d-98	Madam President, I would like Of course, as a minister, one has an ongoing responsibility to follow an issue and in that role has the opportunity to take initiatives if necessary. With the dignity that this issue has, it will be worked through well, and I am convinced that if the government needs to take a previous initiative, it will do so.
i-ecb950eda740268d-99	Madam President, I would like This is a matter of the FDI Regulation, which comes from an EU process. The EU's good side is visible. The EU started the process earlier than 19 March 2019, when the decision was taken. Sweden has therefore been involved in the debate for a long time, although it has sounded in previous interventions that everything started after 19 March and that was when many woke up. But let us all have some humility in this debate. It is indeed the case that we have all had time to act earlier and see what was about to happen. The Regulation entered into force on 10 April 2019. The government appointed the investigation with its one-man investigator on 27 August 2019, but it is clear that this could have been done earlier. We're not without role models. What the EU saw was that many countries already had this type of review mechanism in place: Australia, Canada, the USA, India, Japan and also China. Half of the Member States had monitoring mechanisms in place at the time of the decision. Sweden did not belong to these countries, but Denmark and Finland, to name a few of our neighbours. So there were examples to look at in order to act more quickly. We have seen from many quarters that, above all, we stand up and defend our openness and our free trade and that we want to secure the possibility of foreign investment in Sweden, because it is important for us. Eventually we have seen that there are others out there who are not acting according to the rules that we thought we had in common. We have seen how, not least, China has broken regulations and how the state of China acts. Trade becomes part of a political toolhouse that is used to achieve its political results. This is something that I think many people have noticed. An open, free trade-friendly country should remain, but we must see what is happening around it. If we are to succeed, we must assert scrutiny and control so that our freedom and openness are not abused by hostile forces. I note that the Swedish Security Service and several other authorities have warned that foreign takeover of sensitive infrastructure and technology in Sweden may damage Swedish security. Warned has also been done now with increased sharpness after covid-19 and the effects it has had on the Swedish economy and Swedish companies. The European Commission has also noted the risk arising from covid-19 and the weakenings that we have seen in many companies. There are therefore strong reasons for now getting a review mechanism in place also in Sweden and a stronger order throughout the EU. We support the proposal that the ISP should have the control function that we expect to be able to ensure scrutiny. I note that the reason why the ISPs have been chosen is that they are used to working with the examination of security sensitive areas and to identifying them but also – this should be noted – interacting with other authorities and their expertise. It is essential to be able to do this. With the budget for the next year, we will have a stronger economy. ISP is given increased resources to scale up its skills in areas where they are lacking. But, of course, we must work with other authorities to secure competence, just as the ISP is doing today in the field of arms exports. Such exports have ISP to review today, but now also other security sensitive areas. We see that this is the beginning. We note the new proposal that has come and that we will examine with great interest. On our part, we have highlighted in the debate that the marker in terms of investment effects that the EU has pointed out to ensure security and public order contains five different areas. One of the areas that we have highlighted is the media and their freedom and diversity. We are pleased with the statement made in the report on this particular area. Many see 5G, not the media in the first place, as a clear security risk, but there is also a fight about free speech. We have seen, for example, how Chinese interests have gone in to take over and rule. We have seen it on the African continent, and we have seen how a popular radio station has been bought in Prague. The freedom and diversity of the media are important to protect, not to stop the possibility of selling and buying, but to be able to review and have a threshold mechanism in place so as not to make it too easy for those who are out for hostile purposes when it comes to security and public order in Sweden. Against this background, we will review the new bill, and we look forward to a previous delivery by the investigator. We hope and wish that it would not be required until November 2021. We expect every effort to be made to produce a final report from the investigator earlier than that so that we can get legislation in place that is broader and more effective than we get now that we start patching and repairing. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-AmNVo5ShYECciovZNuYs5Q	Madam President, I would like Until 1992, the Act on Foreign Acquisitions of Swedish Companies existed. The ability of the limited foreign operators to acquire shares in Swedish limited liability companies or shares in Swedish partnerships or other movements that were operated in Sweden. Since the law was repealed in 1992, there are currently very limited possibilities to influence or, where appropriate, prevent foreign direct investment in protected areas in Sweden. Apart from the end of the Cold War in 1992, we had a moderate government, and membership of the EU, or the EC, as it was then called, was around the corner. Unlike many other parties, the Left Party was not swept into the wave of legislative changes made in that era before EU membership and after the fall of the Soviet Union. That is why the Left Party opposed the abolition of the then legislation on foreign direct investment. Today, the winds have changed, and Parliament believes that legislation on foreign direct investment is needed. It's wise. But one might wonder why there is such a rush from the bourgeois parties. They are barking at the government here and there because it is not fast enough when they themselves in 1992 were very quick to abolish legislation that they want back today. I believe that all legislative work needs to be done on a sound and sound basis. You need to investigate and think before you put your foot down. I hope that will happen again this time. We see that there are great differences between what it is like today and what it used to be like. Today we live in a digitalised society where information is found in computers rather than on paper and where public ownership has been squeezed out by privatisation and outsourcing. This means that even in private companies there is for Sweden security sensitive knowledge that we do not want to end up in the wrong hands. Much of this debate is about pointing out antagonists like Russia and China. But I think we should understand that the threat is wider than that. In a digitalized world, non-state actors and states that have no direct geographical connection to Sweden may still be interested in being antagonists to us. This shows, not least, the extensive espionage of refugees that we have seen in our country, such as the farsi licence app that was revealed last week, which collects information and records calls made by the user of the app. We do not know who is behind this, but one can have one's suspicions against Iran, for example. Although the ISP now has a key role to play as a contact point and will certainly have even clearer key roles in the future, it is important to emphasise strong cooperation between authorities. I think it is through the transfer of knowledge between authorities that we get a broad security picture clearer for us. I believe, for example, that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, can play a key role in understanding how we prevent civil crises. Two years ago, when the current Swedish Security Act was drawn up, the IT scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency had erupted. It was then clear to everyone what the price for outsourcing and privatisation can be, that sensitive information about all vehicles in Sweden ends up in the hands of people who are not safety-rated or even subject to Swedish rules. The public sector handles a large amount of information on a daily basis. Much of what is created and stored is both important and sensitive. Certain tasks are classified as worthy of protection, and some even concern national security. If information is lost, stolen, manipulated or disseminated to unauthorised persons, it can have serious consequences for us. Both individuals and the social structure require large amounts of information for everyday life to work. When short-term profits become the driving force for maintaining a system, the long-term nature of the system is set aside and the whole is lost. There is a risk in itself of outsourcing data to private actors dealing with security-sensitive information. I think we were many who looked at one of the latest episodes of Swedish news that brought up Rymdbolaget in Kiruna. It was a very good review of a comedian gang. One laughed, but it was something that got stuck in the throat when one understood the seriousness that we do not even know how long sensitive information will be delivered from Kiruna directly to the Chinese military. Another subject I would like to touch on briefly today is the ownership of land. Sweden as a state is often a large landowner around our country. At the same time, there is often a desire to reduce state land ownership. It is therefore important to take into account the security dimensions and that in future our state ownership of land should be characterised by a greater security dimension than today. It will strengthen the total defence of Sweden. I support the proposal in the report.
i-FTbSbyaXKFrfDcPUtfWvsY	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in UU3. When Parliament is now to decide on additional provisions to the EU regulation on foreign direct investment, this means that a Swedish legislation that ensures the scrutiny of such investments will finally come into place. It is therefore to be welcomed that the new EU regulation will apply from October onwards. A common and effective FDI audit system is crucial, not least in times of concern and severe economic downturn. Reality shows that this is exactly the way it is. In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, we saw the extent of foreign direct investment in undervalued and thus vulnerable European companies, not infrequently operating in strategically important infrastructure such as IT, energy supply and ports. At that time it was primarily about buying-in in the weakened economies of southern Europe, although some other EU countries also saw the same phenomenon. The purchases were in these cases linked to China. In the Communist Party document Made in China 202 5, the strategy behind this is formulated, which makes it clear, among other things, that Chinese companies have access to large-scale capital through state subsidies. Madam President, I would like The fact that Chinese acquisitions in Sweden are not made by chance is recognised in a survey from the Swedish Defence Research Institute, FOI, from December 2019. The survey shows that some fifty Swedish companies with a total of hundreds of subsidiaries have received the Chinese state as the main shareholder in the 2000s. It is important to stress that foreign investment is fundamentally welcome and is of great importance both for businesses and for the development and employment of society. It is also important to stress that the legislation that we are deciding on today is not aimed at any individual country. It is general in character. But you can't get around reality. Sweden has for far too long been without an effective system to review investments and acquisitions based on important strategic effects for society and also based on effects on national security. Madam President, I would like With the new legislation, the strategic product inspection, the ISP, the mission and the resources to be the authority and national contact point towards the EU and the common regulatory framework for how Member States can examine and, if necessary, hinder foreign investment. In addition to this role as international coordinator, ISP is also given the power to build up a functioning national audit function, as has been said here in the debate. This means, among other things, that information from the companies concerned can be obtained for an investment if there is a risk that the conduct may affect Swedish security-sensitive operations. There is every reason to support this approach, and we in the Christian Democrats assume – without reservation – that the authority is actually given the resources, skills and know-how needed to do this for our country so important work. If this does not happen, the very purpose of the whole legislation will be undermined, I would say. Madam President, I would like One of the challenges ahead will be to find a balance between protecting Swedish interests while demonstrating that Sweden is an attractive nation to invest in. Mr Wallmark mentioned this in his speech. This is not a simple but extremely important balance – as important as safeguarding free trade and new international trade agreements in the time of the pandemic and the closed borders. The Christian Democrats are and will always be warm free trade friends, without passively looking at whether our country's security is threatened by acquisitions and investments in strategically important sectors of society. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-ecb950eda740268d-130	Madam President, I would like Indeed, Sweden is a part of the world – and must be so. It is crucial, Madam President, that companies and investors around the world see Sweden as an attractive place to invest their money and an attractive country to invest in. In fact, it is precisely our free economy that has given us the economic and technical muscles we need to protect us also from qualified threats from other countries. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying for someone like me – a liberal and someone who wants to see himself as part of the world – that we can do this together in Europe. In the European Union, with this and similar decisions throughout the Union, we are jointly taking up the fight against those countries that want to use our free economy for illegal gain. It is about those who pose a security threat and want to invest in sensitive infrastructure. It is about those who may want to buy up sensitive technology and those who want to own infrastructure in places that are sensitive to security policy. It is absolutely necessary to have the point of contact for this joint European work in place, Madam President. It is also absolutely necessary to ensure that ISP gets proper muscles to perform the reviews on site. If we are to maintain our security and control over our sensitive infrastructure in this country, Madam President, it is absolutely crucial that we do so together. We need to do this together in the European Union, with transparency and, at the same time, safeguarding the free, global, open economy. Madam President, I would like However, we must not be naive. For this reason, I and the Liberals – who have been pushing for this type of action since before – are very happy that there is money in the budget for the ISP, the authority that gets this particular responsibility. This enables them to ensure that the right skills are in place. It is clear that they have a responsibility to cooperate with other authorities, and it is clear that this is a work that we need to do together with other European countries. Even from a security policy perspective, we in Sweden are rarely alone. We are threatened not because we are Sweden but because we are part of that part of the world where we have rights and freedoms and believe in democracy, freedom of expression and a free economy – all the things that countries such as China, which has been mentioned before, hate. They see all these things as threats. That is why we in Sweden, as part of the liberal world, are threatened. For this reason, it is crucial that we do this together, both for Sweden to remain attractive to invest in and for us to be able to properly review the investments that are at risk of being dangerous to our safety.
i-ecb950eda740268d-135	Madam President, I would like School is the lowest common denominator in society. There learning and education build the adult world of the future, where the common culture is determined and transferred from one generation to the next. There knowledge is acquired, and new acquaintances, friendships, and love are created. Going to school is so simple, so of course and so important. Madam President, I would like Going to school in Sweden is both a duty and a right for all children. The fact that everyone goes to school is important for us to be able to equalize differences in the chances of life that are largely determined by the growing environment. This means that all children between the ages of 6 and 16 must attend school and take part in the activities and teaching organised there. However, there are some situations that constitute exceptions to the obligation to attend school, and the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how these exceptions to schooling work. The review has its origins in the noted Ystad case, where the parents of a five-child family kept the children from school for many years by giving the impression that the family was abroad. However, the review covers three compulsory school provisions, namely leave, long-term residence abroad and compliance with compulsory schooling by other means. One can summarize the review by saying that the Swedish National Audit Office notes that it works badly and that it works differently. The basis is that it is old rules that have come into being for different purposes and to address different problems. These have since been transferred to the existing school legislation when it entered into force in 2010, which has left the rules to each other unclear. In addition, a lack of support from the Swedish National Agency for Education and a non-existent supervision from the Swedish School Inspectorate has led to very different application of the regulations by municipalities and principals. The Swedish National Audit Office lands quite reasonably in its recommendations and proposes that the Government should take the initiative to amend the provisions of the Education Act, taking into account: How long leave a Vice-Chancellor should be able to make decisions on: 中 on the possibility of a sanctioning fee should be included in the School Act 中 where the provision on long-term residence abroad is applicable only to children of government employees posted abroad. Furthermore, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Swedish School Inspectorate should carry out supervision of how the regulations have been applied and that the Swedish National Agency for Education should provide support and guidance in this area. This is quite reasonable. The government replies in the letter we are discussing here today that there may be a need to review the current provisions in order to clarify the purpose of them and that the issue will be taken with it in the further work. This response has led a united committee today to support the announcement that the government will follow the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. Madam President, I would like In my career as Vice-Chancellor, I have been involved in applying the rules that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed and that the debate is about. The Swedish National Audit Office's picture of the situation is very consistent with my own, namely that the rules are unclear and the support is failing. Let me take a few examples. How long a leave can you decide on? I have met with principals who, in order to avoid taking a stand on this issue, apply the principle of extreme restrictiveness. Then the answer is zero days. I myself have worked for a principal where we principals jointly landed in a practice that ten days is enough to consider a shorter leave because it is the length of the school law that says that a principal can delegate the decision-making right on. Longer leave than that was basically never granted. So the question is: how long is a short leave, and how long is a longer leave? Is it possible, in future, for a school pupil to travel abroad for a few months to a place where there is an establishment that calls itself a Swedish school? Is it possible to do your VFU as a teacher student at the Swedish School in Gran Canaria, who has permission from the Swedish School Inspectorate and who receives state grants from the Swedish Agency for Education, and to bring their children to go to the same school? These are authentic cases where guardians wanted the municipality of residence's decision to be able to fulfil school duties in another way. The question is what is meant by extraordinary reasons, which are, of course, required for such a decision. And how will the municipality of residence be able to account for the quality of the activities carried out in Thailand or in Gran Canaria? Is a family that lives half the year in the UK and the other half of the year in Sweden because their parents' work requires it permanently abroad? Are the children in that family subject to schooling in Sweden all year round? If not, are they compulsory for school in Sweden half the year? The lack of clarity is great, the guidance is weak and the supervision is non-existent. As vice-chancellor, I have also seen the consequences of the routine questions about compulsory education that the inspection and the government refers to in their answers to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. These routine issues do not solve the problems of boundaries or ambiguity and do not create uniformity of application. These questions allow the principal to find out which students are absent from school – how often, how long, invalid or valid. This is important, but it is not the solution to the problem of criminal law. That is the solution to a completely different problem, namely the work of ensuring that all pupils who are subject to the obligation come to school. Madam President, I would like On the other hand, the problem that not everyone who is subject to compulsory schooling does not come to school is not solved by a national register of absences. The fact that the state, the Minister for Education or the committee members know how much of the students who are away from school on a normal day does neither from nor to the student who gets the anxiety of the very idea of going to school. Rather, the person who needs to know what the absence is is is the one who is able to put in place measures to deal with it. Students get away from school for very different reasons, and that is a problem that needs to be addressed on the basis of any given situation. It is the individual student's situation that needs to be handled in order for absence to be turned into presence. The Swedish National Agency for Education works with the task of producing a descriptive picture of what the situation with absenteeism looks like, but that is another matter. On this basis, we can decide on strategic measures, if necessary. I have also been involved in the Vice-Chancellor's role in reporting statistics to SCB on student numbers, services and teacher qualifications. That administration is essential. There is no reason to believe that a national absence register, which would probably require at least monthly reporting to be adequate, would render less administration in the country's school units – much more so. And for what good would that be? Especially useless is it now that all information about the country's school units is secret. To be honest, the question of a national absence register is hidden from the secrecy of the Swedish school system. Without proper rules on transparency in the activities of all school units, no one would know what was in that register. No, Madam President, problem school absences must be detected locally, because it is locally that it can be addressed. Madam President, I would like Going to school is so simple, so of course and so important. Of course, all children in Sweden are going to school. Creating a national register of absenteeism will not bring a single child with a problem of absenteeism back to school. However, a good first measure to achieve that all children go to school is to act on the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 1 and of the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Education and Training 3.
i-DQxP6Dm4ktSaWbFh4ARiRd	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse Amendment No 4 and, secondly, to endorse the proposal in the committee's report. The other day I received an email from a citizen who wondered why we were forcing children to go to school. That's how he made it-- why are we forcing kids to go to school? We're talking about compulsory schooling. However, he felt that this was a school requirement rather than, as in other countries, an education obligation that allows parents to determine what is an appropriate level of knowledge. The answer was quite simple: Compulsory education is a basic starting point for our education system. The compulsory education must ensure that all pupils receive equal education regardless of their social affiliation. It is a duty that guarantees that every child receives the necessary education but that also ensures that you get other skills needed in life. In particular, the social contact area is a strong argument for the fact that compulsory schooling is better than an education obligation that many other countries have. Children's education must never depend on parental discretion. Having said that, the school law regulates certain cases where exceptions to schooling requirements can be made, i.e. cases where it is acceptable to be absent from school. We have just heard a report on this. This is therefore the case for granted leave, permanent residence abroad or the fulfilment of compulsory schooling in other ways for special reasons. In the spring of 2018, the issue of exemptions from compulsory schooling was raised in the high profile case in Ystad municipality with four children who have never attended school. Out of respect for the children, I will speak no more about the matter in itself. However, this case showed that it was clear that the regulatory framework was not correctly applied and was not applied equally across the country and that the follow-up to exemption decisions was not satisfactory. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore chose to review the regulations based on three issues. Firstly, are exemptions from compulsory schooling clearly regulated by the School Act? Secondly, does the School Inspectorate carry out appropriate supervision of the rules? Thirdly, has the National Agency for Education provided adequate support for municipalities to interpret the legislation? The results of the review were disappointing. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the regulatory framework is not applied in accordance with the legislator's intentions. All the provisions are unclear. Decision-makers find it difficult to decide not only how to make decisions but also what decisions to make. This means that the application of legislation varies widely both between and within municipalities. The School Inspectorate has not supervised the application, and the Swedish National Agency for Education has not produced sufficient support and guidance for any provision. It is not a small criticism that is being made. The Swedish Democrats can see from the Swedish National Audit Office's report that there are a number of cases where legislative changes or implementing regulations must be made immediately. Firstly, the principals are sometimes subjected to strong pressure from driving parents to grant leave of the most varied nature. It would be a great relief for the principals to determine what applies to longer leave, such as leave for more than 20 days. From our point of view, this should always be decided by the principal and not by the principal. Secondly, we believe that there is a great lack of clarity in the concepts of the School Act, which is particularly valid. Sometimes it's travel, and sometimes it's movie recordings. There may also be religious festivals and other grounds for leave over ten days. In the vast majority of cases, this is not very acceptable. Some principals interpret the concept considerably more restrictively and do not give time off at all, as we heard the previous speaker describe very well. A clarification of the regulations would greatly facilitate the work of the principals and principals. Thirdly, in this connection, we take seriously the fact that there are parents who do not accept a "no" from the principal. When the principal says that they are not allowed to take time off, the parents still choose to keep the children away from school. This can never be accepted, but must be combated. We believe that a penalty payment should always be imposed in these cases if there is no particular reason not to do so. As a general rule, a penalty payment shall be imposed. We also think that a remark should be made about invalid absences in the grade document for students in higher grades. Fourthly, we believe that the School Inspectorate must be better supervised also in relation to the current regulatory framework for exemptions from schooling requirements. We also think that the government must clarify the mission of the School Inspectorate in this regard. Fifthly, we call for the parliament and the government to make clear and concrete laws. You have to be clear and concrete in your goals so that schooling is carried out by all students. It is also the government's duty to provide adequate resources to the supervisory authorities under state control to enable them to carry out their task properly. That is why we also want the government to make the necessary legislative changes to this effect. We have highlighted these points in our follow-up motion, but sometimes we also have to be pragmatic as politicians. As far as we are concerned, the most important thing is that changes are now taking place in accordance with the proposals that the Swedish National Audit Office points out. As the government, as usual, is very slow, it was important for us to contribute to the committee being united on the announcement. Since the announcement means that the government will comply with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations, it is fully in line with what we want to see for changes. For this reason, we support this very announcement. Madam President, I would like The report also contains a second announcement, namely that the government should review the possibility of introducing a national register of absences. Invalid absence is a major problem in many schools, and it is not a new phenomenon. As early as 2017, a government investigation proposed that the Swedish National Agency for Education should be tasked with collecting and reporting national statistics on absenteeism. The referral round ended in May 2017, and since then it has been quiet. It is important, we think, for Swedish democrats, that we get rid of students' absences. Although we support the idea of a national register of absences and support that announcement, we believe that more measures are needed to ensure that the principals are able to comply with school requirements. We therefore want the mission to the government to be broadened and have, for precisely this reason, joined the Liberals' motion on this issue.
i-ecb950eda740268d-175	Madam President, I would like In the autumn of 2018, a case was noted in southern Sweden, where the guardians of a number of school-obliging children stated that they had spent most of the year abroad and that the children were therefore not able to attend school. The municipality then made a decision that the schooling obligation had ceased due to a permanent stay abroad. However, it was later found that the family was not abroad to the extent indicated to the municipality. The current provisions on exemptions from compulsory schooling were adopted in 2010. Nevertheless, they risk being used in a way that they are not intended to do, since more families are staying abroad for longer or shorter periods during weeks when children are actually going to school, like this case. Children who are registered in Sweden have compulsory schooling, but the Swedish National Audit Office's report highlights worrying shortcomings. The review shows that the regulatory framework is not being applied as intended. All three provisions are unclear, says Riksrevisionen, which makes it difficult for decision-makers to decide how to decide and what decisions to make. There is therefore considerable variation in the application of legislation in municipalities. The review also shows that the Swedish School Inspectorate has not carried out any supervision of how the rules are applied and that the Swedish National Agency for Education has not produced sufficient support and guidance for any provision. In order to make the regulations clearer, the Swedish National Audit Office, as we have heard earlier from the pulpit, recommends, among other things, that the government take the initiative to change the school law. We in the Left Party are pleased that the Education Committee is behind this, because we know that completion of schooling is one of the most important factors in combating inequality, ill health and poverty. Not least at a time when gaps in our society are increasing and the labour market is changing, it is important to ensure all children's rights to schooling and knowledge. At the same time as we want to see a change, we also want the government and the responsible school authorities to examine the proposals very carefully to see what consequences they can have. One of the recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office, for example, is that the Government should take the initiative to amend the provisions of the School Act and review whether a sanction fee should be introduced in the School Act. It is a proposal that we believe needs to be investigated very carefully, including from a class perspective. After all, the aim of these proposals should be to ensure children's right to education and knowledge, not to impair the financial situation of certain families, which in turn impairs the situation of children. Madam President, I would like A national register of absences has also been proposed by certain parties, which we oppose. Work is already underway at the Swedish National Agency for Education to review the support offered to principals, principals and guardians in promoting and preventive work to prevent and reduce absenteeism. In addition, the Swedish National Agency for Education is working to map the extent of student absences and to fill knowledge gaps about absenteeism. In addition, the Government stated in the letter that they intend to follow this work. The Government has also stated that there may be a need to review the current provisions of the Education Act in order to clarify their purpose. In this context, we would also like to remind you that the Swedish National Agency for Education has previously stated that the Authority does not believe that the collection of national absence statistics would be an effective instrument for reducing absenteeism. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also stated that there is no clear purpose for national absence statistics, since it is the individual student's situation that needs to be handled in order to turn absenteeism into presence. For these reasons, and in order not to further increase the administrative burden on schools, the Swedish National Agency for Education has instead recommended to regularly map pupils' absences, prevention and follow-up by principals and schools. Such work is already under way today. Against this background, we believe that the Parliament should not support the announcement to introduce a national register of absences. The Left Party therefore supports reservation 1.
i-ecb950eda740268d-186	Madam President, I would like The Liberals obviously support all their requests, but in particular reservation 2 of the report by the Committee on Education on pupils with long-term absences. I will not present the report of the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at the rules, application and supervision of compulsory education, and one can say that both the rules and the application are unclear and that supervision is virtually non-existent. And it is a very strong criticism of the government authorities and ultimately the Swedish National Agency for Education and the State's school inspection. Behind these figures and these developments are very serious and sad situations that we must prevent. It is not just a matter of some who go to Thailand during the winter, Madam President, but there are also situations where the President's decision is ignored or the school's information that says: we will not grant leave, because your son or daughter needs to go to school. If you're not in school, you lose your education and you lose your momentum, and that obviously affects the knowledge goals and ultimately their grades. There are further examples of problems that we need to address in this context, namely children who are taken out of the country involuntarily, children who, after the summer end, do not show up for the autumn term. That's why compulsory schooling is important. I hope that no one today will start demanding that we relax school duty and leave the main responsibility to the home and the guardians, because school duty is the most important effort of society to ensure that all students in Sweden have access to a good education, which in itself provides security and security. We will advocate the proposal for a national register of absences. I have heard many objections to the need for this. But as soon as we get any media information that there are 5 000 – 6 000 home sitters – and we don't know how many children are actually sitting at home – many politicians suddenly ask why this is the case. When we look at CSN and withdrawn student funds and grants, not least in upper secondary school, many school politicians, both municipal and here in Parliament, are surprised and surprised. This is due to a lack of procedures and a lack of systematic follow-up of absences. Madam President, I would like We have to do something about this. It is not enough to refer to the National Agency for Education. I have heard for at least four five years that the Swedish National Agency for Education is working on this issue, but we have not had a pandemic for five years. I understand, however, that this issue has been addressed in the spring. This review was carried out just over a year ago, and last December we had a drawing in committee. I hope that these issues will be taken more seriously. Many municipal and regional politicians working on issues of mental illness and pupil health are finally approaching the question of pupils' presence and absence. Since shortcomings in attendance have extensive negative consequences, we need to know why students are not in the classroom on a daily basis. Of course, there are examples of studies and stays abroad. You go with your parents when they work abroad or you have temporary leave. The school will then settle with the student and the guardian what information should be done and what contacts should be made between the home and the school. But these are the other problems we need to address. It is therefore important that we work towards the possibility of introducing a national absence register. The most important of all are the principals, the individual school unit and the headmaster in consultation with the guardian and the pupil. It's about prevention. Madam President, I would like The worst effect of long-term absence is crime. It is not uncommon that many of the younger children picked up by gangs of young people and criminal gangs also have high school absences. That is why this is an important crime prevention effort. I re-approve our reservation, No. 2, on students with long-term absences. This issue has not been a specific task for the Swedish National Audit Office, but in its submission to the Government, the Swedish National Audit Office asks the Swedish Government to take a broader approach and look at the issue of home sitting. Home sitting is not a schoolboy, but a student with different disabilities. It can be a matter of mess, trouble and disorder at the school that makes them involuntarily stay at home due to the lack of adapted study and educational support in the classroom. This issue is central, and we will continue to fight for this proposal to go through.
i-ecb950eda740268d-199	Madam President, I would like In the autumn of 2018, a tragedy was revealed in Ystad. In a family with five children, four of whom were of school age and one was of age, nothing had been allowed to go to school. It was Helsingborgs Dagblad, Sydsvenskan and the talented journalist Andreas Persson who published the family's fate in June 2019 and the authorities' lack of control of school duties. After the media resurrection, the Swedish National Audit Office decided to carry out an audit of compliance with school requirements. The audit report then revealed a number of shortcomings in its operation. The firm conclusion of the audit was that the school law needs to be amended on a few points. It is about how long leave a Vice-Chancellor can give a family who wants to travel abroad and whether any kind of fine should be imposed on guardians who do not let their children go to school, as is available in Denmark, for example. The Swedish National Audit Office also considered that the Swedish School Inspectorate should carry out supervision of how the regulations are applied and that the Swedish National Agency for Education should provide support and guidance in this area. The government felt that no decisions were necessary, but, fortunately, everyone in the Education Committee felt that the proposals of the auditors should be implemented. What happened to the Ystad children, which no one missed at school, was a tragedy that should never happen again. Hopefully, with today's decision, we can create a system that minimises the risk of more such tragedies.
i-ecb950eda740268d-204	Madam President, colleagues and not least all students and teachers in Sweden's schools! Every year we spend billions on ensuring a good education and a safe everyday life for our children in school. We do not always succeed in everything, but we see that teachers, educators and other staff throughout the country make great efforts to get a teaching that lifts every child. Being with my own children at school in Malmö or visiting around the country's schools always gives a reminder of the great work being done around the country. Most of the time, teaching is good. So do the students, fortunately. But what if the teaching is good if the students are not at school to take part in it? Whatever we do to improve school education is the first step in ensuring that children are actually there and take part of it. The bitter reality, however, is that many children are far too often absent from school. For example, it was shown in the much talked about case in Ystad, which several have mentioned, but there are very problematic absences that do not reach such extreme levels as in that case. These are children whose parents do not give priority to school or children who are oppressed for reasons of honour or are even taken out of the country. This is the reality, and that journalists are required to discover each individual case is not something we should accept. So how do we get more people to want to be in school and be allowed to be in school? Ensuring that children want to be in school is an issue that we in the Center Party have been prioritising for a long time and in which we have also had an impact on several proposals. The pupils must of course feel good, and therefore access to pupil health should be guaranteed. The teaching must be relevant, and therefore it is being reviewed and will become more digital. It should also make sense to go to school, and new curricula, so that you understand what is happening, are part of it. Making the school more attractive is for us in the Center Party only one side of the coin when it comes to reducing the absence. The other side is to keep track of the absence, follow it up and say sharply from those parents who limit their children's right to school. Here is Sweden behind. But now we have the support of the committee, and hopefully soon also of the Parliament, to change this by introducing a national register of absences that allows us to keep track of the absence. The Swedish National Agency for Education has pointed out that the question of absence is greater than the parts that the Swedish National Audit Office highlights in the report we are debating today and that the committee rightly supports. The problem of large absenteeism and home-sitting needs to be seen in a broader perspective than the government expresses in its response to the report. Therefore, we want the Government to follow the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal and to introduce a national absence register – because this is just an example of such a larger perspective. In fact, a national absence register has previously been proposed by the Missing Investigation 2016. One example in this area is the Netherlands, where a national register of absences has greatly reduced school absenteeism. The register in the Netherlands allows managers at different levels, in politics as well as in administration, to examine how the number of school dropouts varies over time and between school forms. In addition, there is the central registration of absences that schools are obliged to enter. This means that there are good opportunities to keep track of developments. In Sweden, teachers already register absences in the classroom, but this is not done in a systematic way. There is also no way of monitoring development from a central point of view, even in municipalities. We can change this by introducing a national register of absences. So we are not creating more administration for teachers, but we are making sure that the administration they already do is used in a sensible way. This should all be for. Of course, collecting data is not enough. The register does not resolve the absence in itself. That's what you do with these data and the analyses of them that make a difference. Reducing absenteeism requires active measures to support pupils in everyday life, and there are already many. But it is by drawing attention to schools where the absence is high and actually seeing the students who are not in school that the problem can start to be solved. What we are proposing here about a national register of absences is not a way of punishing children for having been gone, but it is for learning what creates problems and for developing a better school for all children. That is an important thing, because it is a fundamental prerequisite for giving children a better future. Research shows that those who have high absenteeism in comprehensive school are also often those who eventually drop out of school completely. And early school leaving, in turn, leads to an increased risk of unemployment, exclusion and crime. In my hometown of Malmö, this connection is very painfully clear. More and more young people and children are caught up in gangs when they should have been caught up in school. That is totally unacceptable. That is why I have advocated a national register of absences. It is a concrete and direct effort that allows us to ensure that more children in Malmö and in the rest of Sweden get the schooling they deserve and are entitled to. To surrender to this and accept the present order, as the government is doing here, is sad. Today, therefore, I hope that Parliament can take another step towards a school where more students take part in the teaching offered, a school where more children want to be and feel welcome and, not least, a school where more children manage to create a foundation that allows them to build the rest of their lives as they want. That is why I am in favour of the committee's proposal, which supports our proposal, with the great hope that this time the government will act quickly at the wishes of Parliament and the committee.
i-ecb950eda740268d-219	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the UbU3 report. I would also like to thank the Swedish National Audit Office in the introduction for an important review report, which has shown shortcomings in how municipalities follow up on compliance with the school obligation that exists. School duty hasn't come about for fun. On the contrary, it is about caring for children – that they should bring with them knowledge and opportunities to develop to their full potential with the education and values conveyed in school. They should be able to move forward in a meaningful professional life. By staying in preschool class and school for ten years together with people from other family and other cultural backgrounds, we learn mutual respect and understanding, in addition to all the knowledge conveyed in the school's teaching. It was therefore a good thing that the Swedish National Audit Office did the review and was able to bring the ambiguities to light. It is serious criticism of how the regulatory framework is interpreted and enforced. Such criticism must be taken very seriously. The Swedish National Audit Office also has a number of concrete and sharp proposals on how to act to address the problem. I will admit that I was surprised to see how lame the government chose to deal with the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal. It is written that there may be a need, that you should take the issue with you, that the Swedish National Agency for Education can develop its support and that there may be reasons to carry out further and more in-depth supervision in the area. Clearer markings are needed than that. I am therefore pleased that the committee agrees with the announcement that the Government will follow the recommendation that the National Audit Office submits to the Government in its review report. It is good that there is also a majority in the committee to announce to the government in this context that it will review the possibility of introducing a national absence register. There are currently major shortcomings in the registration of absenteeism. I recently visited an independent school that had found a successful way to work with home sitters and students with problematic school absences. It was objectively possible to measure success by reducing absenteeism. When municipal representatives had been there just before my visit, the school principal in question asked how much absence was on average at the municipal schools. But there was no answer to that question, for there was no common way of measuring absenteeism in municipal schools. Even less is there such nationally comparable statistics on absenteeism. Madam President, I would like For students with neuropsychiatric disabilities, the absence often begins early, with stray absence. It is rarely a question of early schooling, but it is psychosomatic symptoms such as stomach pain, nausea, headaches, anxiety and so on, which cause the parents to report the student sick. So it is not a question of illegal absence. With a functioning absence registration system, this type of repeated stray absence can be detected and investigated at an early stage – educational, medical and psychological. Early detection of the problem may improve the conditions for taking the necessary measures, such as adapting the school environment and teaching so that the student's discomfort disappears or at least becomes manageable. Much is gained then. Many of the so - called home sitters, of whom much is spoken, have a vast absence. It's about both semesters and years that they don't go to school, and it often started with just walking away when they were younger. With this in mind, the report on absenteeism is therefore an important tool, and it is important that the committee's proposal for an announcement for the government to review the possibility of introducing a national absence register become a reality.
i-ecb950eda740268d-231	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the UbU4 report and the question of whether we should have an independent investigation into Sweden's part of PISA 2018. Before I touch on the reservation we have, I want to start at a different end. I want to talk about the vision, the ambition and the goal. Standardised tests show how Sweden stands up in international contexts. But they make no difference to my son, to your daughter, or to your grandchild. The school's here and now. That time won't come back. It is therefore important that we give children and young people the right conditions and opportunities from the beginning. It is at school that the foundation is laid for the future of everyone's ability to contribute to and participate in society on equal terms. That is where the foundation is laid for everyone's opportunities to grow and develop as individuals and for everyone's opportunities to reach freedom and the ability to take on whatever one wants in life. Sweden has previously had one of the most equal and high-performance school systems in the world. That's where we're going again. But to do so requires hard work from teachers and students, and investment and efforts are needed to strengthen school education. Since the government took office in 2014, we have gradually regained control of school development. Today we have 31 000 more employees at school. It makes a difference in school and for you as an individual when you get the support you need. But more needs to be done to meet the children and young people who have the toughest conditions. When you as a teacher go home with a lump in your stomach because you did not have time to meet the student who eagerly tried to catch your attention, you need more colleagues – more who see, who support and who guide. We have invested in continuing training to strengthen you as a teacher and to give you new tools and opportunities to do your important job. Although we have a lack of teachers and growing pupils, and despite the fact that Swedish schools have welcomed many newly arrived students in recent years, the efforts at the school have made more students learn. More people have dared to step into adulthood with a backpack full of knowledge, confidence and courage. Madam President, I would like We also know that we have failed in our important mission, because not everyone is there. There are still children and young people who do not reach the targets and who do not take those important steps. We have failed there, and we must do more there. We know that we have not managed to break inequality in school. The Swedish school is less equal than our neighbouring countries. That, Madam President, should be a wake-up call for all education politicians. The market confidence that has characterised school policy has led to growing gaps between schools, and thus results have deteriorated. We must work together to combat this, because it leads to nothing more than the fact that society is already being divided into schools. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago we could read that upper secondary school qualifications increased a little bit in 2020. If you look carefully, you can see how class society is inherited through the school system. We know that foreign-born students who arrive late during their school hours find it more difficult to reach eligibility. Therefore, the cut is reduced in the group of foreign born. But if you look at students with a foreign background born in Sweden, you can see that there are almost no differences to pupils with ethnic Swedish background. The bottom line is that it is not your country of origin that determines the results without your class background. The question we must then ask ourselves is: How can we give all children the opportunity to pass school, no matter which home you happen to be born in or which school you go to? This is one of our greatest challenges, and that is why we must start by breaking school segregation. Madam President, I would like PISA is implemented every three years, and Sweden has participated in the study since 2000. The last study was conducted in spring 2018. More than 5 500 pupils from 223 schools participated. PISA tests students' knowledge and competence in reading comprehension, mathematics and science. The government, parliament and the entire Swedish school system need to have a good basis on students' knowledge and on the quality of comprehensive school in order to be able to make adequate decisions and make initiatives where necessary. Let me be clear that it is serious that questions have arisen about statistics and the question of selection and disappearances. One should be able to trust a study like PISA. It goes without saying that each participating school should adhere to the rules laid down by the OECD as to which pupils should take the test. The Swedish National Agency for Education is responsible for Sweden's participation, and it has been assured that the Swedish National Agency for Education will in the best way instruct participating schools on applicable rules when participating in PISA 2021. Madam President, I would like When we Social Democrats have the power and the results are reversed, the criticism comes. In the committee's report, in the media and among educational politicians of different colours, it has been conspired, discredited and insinuated in a way that does not belong in a democracy. Part of the debate has come to land in Swedish migration policy, how immigrants and people with different backgrounds are drawing down and draining resources in Swedish schools. For me it is obvious that all students' knowledge and schooling is our joint responsibility. We form and invest for the future. It is therefore our duty to provide the right conditions and opportunities for all children, regardless of their background. As I said, we have a reservation in this report on the independent investigation that should be carried out. PISA is the world's largest student study, and it is important and self-evident to be able to rely on the results. In order to ensure that the results are of high quality and comparable across countries, it is important that the investigation is examined by an independent party. The OECD has already been asked to review Sweden's results once again, and it is our opinion that the OECD is the most appropriate party to review the quality of the PISA study because they also have the best knowledge of the survey and what makes it comparable between countries and over time. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be rejected and for the reservation to be approved.
i-ecb950eda740268d-247	Madam President, I would like As a result of media reports, uncertainty has been created about the PISA survey in Sweden and the credibility of its results. PISA is used both as a basis for interventions and as a temperature meter for the school's performance development. It is therefore extremely important that we can rely on the results of the measurement. We must have confidence in school, and we must have confidence in the basis for school policy development. I think we all agree on that. I hope so, anyway. The fact that there are parts of the Riksdag that have low confidence in the government is in itself nothing new. It is the closest thing in the nature of the matter between government and opposition. However, the fact that the Social Democrats here in the speaker's chair are trying to shift the focus from the subject matter does not necessarily increase this confidence. Everyone understands that PISA is not the only or even the most important issue for Swedish school. Now, however, that is the issue we are going to debate and decide on today, and it actually requires facts about the school, no matter what these facts show about the difference between schools, pupils, origins or other things. The fact that there is interest in investigating whether the government and its authorities handled PISA correctly is not surprising. We in the Center Party fully agree with that need. For the Center Party it is important that there is a great deal of trust in the PISA study, and of course also other international comparison studies of Swedish schools. The data on the management of PISA as regards the exclusion of pupils in schools need to be very much reviewed. Swedish school will be evaluated honestly and openly. Only then can we ensure a positive development of the school. That the OECD could not be entrusted to investigate whether Sweden has done the right thing in the performance of PISA, however, we do not agree with the Center Party. Using the OECD, which is responsible for PISA, to review the worrying media reports that have emerged is both quickest, easiest and most effective. This means that those who evaluate the implementation are the ones who have absolutely the best knowledge of how PISA should actually be implemented and at the same time have the most to lose if the credibility of the investigation is undermined. The Center Party has therefore pushed for the OECD to have the task of reviewing Sweden's results once more – they have not looked at all parts – and in connection with this, to make a special review of the exclusion of students in the PISA survey in the light of the media reports. That mandate has been given to the OECD and this will come out in the next few days. We think it's been the right order. If the OECD's review against expectation does not live up to the expectations we have of them about independence, etc., if they do not look at the things they should, we in no way rule out the possibility of moving on with other measures. But we have to start by letting those who have the best track of how things should be implemented check whether they have been implemented in that way. That's the most logical thing. Madam President, I would like The mission to the OECD well captures the issues I and the Center Party consider important to examine. I therefore support the reservation, which supports the OECD being the most appropriate body to review the quality of the Swedish PISA results. I believe, as I said, that this will lead to a faster process than the committee's proposal. I think we should all be interested in this – we should not allow time to pass in the development of Swedish schools.
i-ecb950eda740268d-255	Madam President, I would like Then we will continue the debate on the draft committee initiative tabled by the Liberals and the Moderates on the PISA results and whether or not an external review is needed. PISA is an international study, established by the OECD, that examines 15-year-olds' knowledge of reading comprehension, mathematics and science. The study is conducted every three years. PISA is the world's largest student study. The study includes both OECD countries and non-OECD countries. For a long period there have been criticisms about PISA and whether the Swedish results are correct or not. The issue has also been raised for media reviews. In the debate, some have used arguments based on the Finnish Immigration Service's statistics to insinuate that students who should have taken the test have been removed so as not to lower the average results for Sweden. The Swedish National Board of Education has repeatedly pointed out that it is wrong to use the statistics of the Finnish Immigration Service because it does not say anything about how long a student has attended Swedish school and even less about how long a student has been taught Swedish, which is a requirement for being able to participate in the PISA survey. Moreover, the OECD rules on which pupils may be excluded according to the language criterion say nothing about how long a person has lived in the country. The requirement for the PISA test is that you have been taught Swedish for at least one year. The only ones who can decide whether a student has been taught Swedish for at least a year are the school coordinators available at each PISA participating school. Madam President, I would like Let me clarify something. We as elected representatives and all other people should be able to trust that the results presented in the world's largest school survey are correct based on the criteria that exist. That's where we all agree. However, to demand an external investigation on the basis of an article in the Expressen, even though the OECD, the government and the relevant authorities are already looking at the issue, I think it is unreasonable. There are many problems to lift up when it comes to PISA. For example, one can criticise the actual design of the test if one wants to. One can criticise how disproportionate the importance of PISA has been given to many countries' education policies for many years. The focus in school policy is often on how to improve PISA results in a competition between countries rather than focusing on knowledge development in a broader context and on many other parameters than those that PISA measures. There's criticism. There are also a number of other important issues to highlight from the OECD reports on Swedish schools. They find that Swedish schools are unequal and that equivalence is deteriorating, that differences are increasing and that the parents' educational background and therefore also class membership are of greater and greater importance for children's schooling. But that's not what the Liberals and the Moderates want to talk about, because then it becomes clear that 30 years of experimental workshop with the world's most extreme free school laws, a poor funding model and the severance of school elections have led to major deteriorations. The majority of bourgeois parties prefer to talk about technicalities rather than about the major cuts going on in the Swedish school. One would rather talk about what the results of foreign-born students look like than about the reforms that have been carried out and that have led to a large school segregation and that the students with a different background, those who are newcomers, may not achieve the same learning goals as other pupils in school. Nor does it want to talk about how the reforms that have been introduced have divided the teaching staff. I call for the committee initiative to be rejected and for the reservation to be approved.
i-ecb950eda740268d-264	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat says that the right, which well for a left-wing party is all to the right of him, that is, about everyone in this room, would like to talk about what it looks like in exclusion areas, how foreign-born results affect school results etcetera but do not want to talk about school otherwise. Of course that's not true. What I and certainly many others in this room want to talk about is what it actually looks like. If we want to know how Swedish school develops, whether it is made up of children born in Sweden, of children whose families have lived here for generations, of immigrant children – my children are also immigrant children – or of new arrivals, we need to know what the facts are. It will be a strange discussion to make it a question of something other than that we actually want to know if the school delivers, whether the students have been in Swedish school for three years or for ten years. To pretend that it is not important to know what is actually the school results for our children in Swedish school and compare their results with the rest of the world I think shows some kind of responsibilities from the Left Party. Why is it not right and important to know whether the results we receive from the OECD are correct?
i-ecb950eda740268d-266	Madam President, I would like In Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen's fiery debate here, he pretends that we are not voting for exactly the same reservation today, which we are doing and thus agreeing with each other on the matter of the PISA study. It will also be a little strange when we talk from the Center Party about finding out about things and getting data and information, given that the Center Party is opposed to us introducing a principle of public access to the Swedish school in order to be able to get information and statistics in order to follow up on this. Has the Center Party changed its mind? Have you left the market experiments behind and want to invest in the school and that we should have transparency for the school activities that we finance with our tax?
i-ecb950eda740268d-268	Madam President, I would like We can certainly take a quick round about what Daniel Riazat would like to talk about, namely transparency in Swedish school. We have pressed the government to gain more transparency in Swedish schools. Now the first legislation will soon be passed, and we will continue to work with the government to gain more transparency in Swedish schools again. It was SCB that stopped transparency in Swedish school and not us, as Daniel Riazat of course knows. The question is why it is necessary for a left-wing party to stand on the speaker's seat and claim that it is an excuse to want facts. We have said that we support the OECD regarding their investigation, but we have also said that if they do not show properly what the problems have been, if there have been problems, we are ready to move forward. We have our own opinion on this. What I find strange is that the Left Party is standing in the speaker's seat and saying that it is some sort of evasion from all other parties, including those parties that want a different review than we want, that they actually want facts on the table. It is problematic if we have a debate about Swedish schools based on chimars that are about some trying to blame themselves. Instead, we need to get to grips with the concrete problems and get facts on the table about how Swedish schools are, what problems there are and how development is for Swedish students. Whatever parties are proposing this, we must get the facts on the table. Everyone should have that as a primary basis and be in favour of it.
i-ecb950eda740268d-273	Madam President, I would like I still find it strange that the only bourgeois party that supports us on this issue takes a line on what I said and which was literally the majority of the bourgeois parties. I did that because, in this case, I didn't mean the Center Party. But absolutely, I don't think everyone in this room wants the best for the school. I have come so far in politics and have lost so much naivety along the way that I actually believe that some people have a purpose in picking up certain issues rather than others. Just as I do in my political work, I also believe that others do, but I think we have different purposes. My aim is to show the increasing segregation and inequality in Swedish schools and the decline in equivalence, just as virtually all school research and all the bodies in Sweden and the EU say. Others rather want to talk about whether we can rely on the OECD as an organisation and whether or not it should look at this. I find it rather remarkable, and that is why I lifted it up.
i-ecb950eda740268d-276	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Education Committee's report, An independent investigation of Sweden's part in PISA 2018. The PISA study is conducted by the OECD and is the largest student survey in the world where students' knowledge of mathematics and natural knowledge and their reading comprehension are measured. PISA is also the study that has had by far the greatest impact on the Swedish political debate about the school. When we saw how the Swedish results in reading, mathematics and science fell in measurement after measurement, it was a wake-up call, an alarm, that caused political parties from left to right to change up in school politics. It was important. In international surveys we have seen a trend break that means that the results in reading, mathematics and science no longer fall. This was shown in the survey Timss, which measures knowledge in mathematics and science, 2015. It also showed the Pirl survey, which measures reading, where the results in 2016 were better than the results in the previous survey in 2011. The trend crime for Swedish schools is also visible in the OECD study on the attractiveness of the teaching profession, Talis. This is incredibly good news. Then came the PISA survey 2018. It showed the same positive change in knowledge in both reading, mathematics and science. It is incredibly gratifying when we can see that students learn more in the important areas. Reading is the basis for all other learning. Mathematics is also an incredibly important basic bolt, as is science. At the same time, PISA is worryingly showing that the differences between schools are increasing in Sweden. We don't have an equal school. The background of students is playing an increasingly important role. Whether or not parents have a higher education is the most important factor in the progress of a child in school. This should not be the case in a welfare state. The school will give all children, regardless of their background, opportunities to move forward in life, work with what they want, develop as a human being and be part of society. PISA therefore precisely measures differences between schools. There, Sweden stands out in comparison with our neighbours. We also see that there is not worryingly a trend break when it comes to equality in Swedish schools. It is important that we can rely on the results of a study that is of great importance to the policy we have for Swedish schools. It is therefore worrying to hear individual schools report that they have not followed the guidelines set by the OECD, which conducts the study, and the Swedish National Agency for Education, which in Sweden is responsible for how it is to be implemented. Madam President, I would like We must nevertheless allow ourselves to ask ourselves: what is the motive behind the wishes of the right-wing parties expressed in this report? Is the purpose really to find out the facts, or is the purpose something completely different? The right parties are saying today that they want it not to be the OECD that will review Sweden but that someone else will – although it is the OECD that sets the rules for PISA and although it is reasonably the OECD that can best interpret whether Sweden's participation is in accordance with the OECD's rules for the OECD study. It is also the OECD that has the best opportunity to ensure that countries' results are comparable, both between countries and between test times over time. But these parties want someone else to do it. There are a number of concerns about this. Among other things, it seems that it wants to undermine the OECD as an international organisation. I believe that it is part of the work of populist parties in undermining intergovernmental organisations in general. We have seen Donald Trump in the United States undermining the World Health Organisation and the United Nations. I am really worried about whether we have parties in the Swedish Parliament who want to claim that the investigations of international organisations are not credible, even if the international organisations themselves control the interpretation of their own studies. It's problematic in itself. Madam President, I would like In fact, I also believe that one has an interest in the fact that reality should not be the one that the studies I have told you about show. I do not think they want to see that there have been positive changes on the knowledge side in Swedish schools. I believe that there is an interest in some parties in showing that everything is heading in the wrong direction and also in blaming it on immigration. I therefore support this reservation.
i-ecb950eda740268d-289	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we in Sweden do not systematically measure quality in schools, in classrooms or between schools, unlike many other countries where this is done. We Moderates have suggested several times that it should be done, but unfortunately without results. Therefore, a study like PISA is of great importance – right or wrong. PISA 2018 will be remembered by many. Of course, the result is interesting. But, above all, what the debate has come to show, the debate that we have had after the results were published. Minister Anna Ekström tweeted that it was a day of joy. I didn't think so. We moderates didn't. We saw quite early, already the same day, that Sweden had an extremely large absence. According to the PISA framework, which some previous speakers have mentioned, students who have received Swedish education in Sweden for less than a year can be excluded from the examination. In Sweden 11 per cent were excluded. It is certainly not 11 percent of all young people who are 15 years old in Sweden who have come to Sweden and have only read Swedish for one year. It was also an extremely large proportion that was absent and would have written the test. In Sweden, 13.5 per cent did not show up that day. No explanation for the high absence can be given. The fact that 25 per cent of 15-year-olds did not write PISA naturally leads me to wonder how their results would have affected Sweden's final result. It would probably have been worse, because in the group that was excluded – the 11% of which such a large proportion should not have been excluded – there are students who do not speak very well Swedish and whose results would probably have been worse. We have major problems in Swedish schools, and we must dare to talk about them. To hide weak pupils or students with a lack of language skills, despite several years of Swedish studies, does not help anyone and this leads to the necessary discussion of what the school lacks in. It is therefore necessary to lift up the breakdown with PISA so that it does not happen again. Where has the participation failed? Is it at school level? Is it at teacher level? Is it the Swedish National Agency for Education, which for the first time was responsible for the PISA study? It is the OECD that implements the PISA. This year, 79 countries participated, including all 37 OECD countries. The OECD has approved Sweden's participation. The test has been corrected and Sweden's results published. OECD officials in Sweden sit at the Government Office. The fact that the OECD would now subsequently approve of errors and exclusions that go against its own regulatory framework is probably not going to happen, because then the OECD's reputation among all the 79 participating countries would be put at risk and would also jeopardise future PISA investigations. A majority in the Education Committee with the Moderates, Liberals, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats have therefore called for an independent review of PISA, preferably by the Swedish National Audit Office. Madam President, I am in favour of this today. At the same time, although we are voting down here today, I am pleased to see that an independent review will take place. The Swedish National Audit Office has itself decided that it wants to review Sweden's participation in PISA and the large exclusion that Sweden has had to do. I look forward to reading what the Swedish National Audit Office comes up with so that we can dare to see the problems that Sweden has with regard to the school and so that we can make the necessary decisions.
i-ecb950eda740268d-297	Madam President, I would like This question is very interesting, and we have noticed that it arouses many feelings, mainly in the conservative and neoliberal bloc. As I said in my main speech, I question the huge focus on PISA as the most important issue at the moment. In addition, however, it is interesting that the Moderates proposed a committee initiative based largely on a well-known newspaper article in Expressen. This, of course, had already been highlighted in the past. Something that is a bit funny about the article is one thing that even the newspaper Dagens ETC reviewed. It was concluded that both the journalist and the source of Expressen's article have very strong links to Hans Bergström, who is one of the owners of the International English School and has strong interests in these matters. He has also taken a clear political position in favour of the right wing in Sweden. I wonder if the Moderates had any idea about this when, in committee, they emphasised, among other things, the Expressen article as one of the reasons and one of their arguments that this must be lifted up in this way. I also wonder about the purpose of raising these issues. What is the intention when one insinuates that the OECD and the government – in principle the organisers of the test – have somehow wanted to hide something? Why do the Moderates think so?
i-ecb950eda740268d-300	Madam President, I would like Now it almost feels like we are at the Swedish Women's Magazine level. I don't do background checks or look at people's family trees. I do not think we should do that here in Parliament. The school's performance and quality is for our children a much more important issue than such a slush debate. The PISA results are important because your parties do not agree that we will introduce quality measurements in Swedish schools. That is something we should have done a long time ago, so that we can see for ourselves the quality of our school and see how the school develops. Surely it is important that we can see that teaching for our children is good? The school is the foundation of the whole community. It is therefore a tragedy that so many are failing in Swedish school. We must dare do something about it. Just as Daniel Riazat himself mentioned, it is the OECD that organises the PISA. They are the ones who have approved Sweden's results. They are the ones who have corrected Sweden's tests and left the result of them. Then why would the OECD say: Oh, we were wrong. We apologize to 79 other countries. Maybe we've made a mistake with them too. It would have been much better if the committee and the Riksdag had decided from the beginning to ask the Swedish National Audit Office to look at this. Now, thankfully, they share our view that it is important to sort out what has gone wrong with Sweden's PISA results. So even if we are voted down today, there will be an independent review. I look forward to it, because I think it is more important that we discuss Swedish school and how it can be better for all children than that in this House we discuss which journalist knows who.
i-ecb950eda740268d-304	Madam President, I would like If I had belonged to the Moderates, a party that has such clear interests and links with these people, I too would have said that I would not have wanted to look at family trees and used the same arguments. It is self-evident to do so if you are a representative of the Moderates. What's a little strange is that the Moderates all of a sudden want a lot of information. They think it is incredibly important that there are statistics and follow-up, but only as long as it is not about a public policy principle in Swedish schools or about reviewing the independent schools. This only applies when it is a question of insinuating that there is a conspiracy between the government and the OECD and where one should have tried to hide things. I find this very strange. The Swedish National Audit Office examines not only this issue but also very many different other issues, which we in our committee also deal with. They have not done so because the Moderates have lifted something up, but they would have. As far as the question itself is concerned, I once again wonder: What is the intention of this? We know that the OECD has set up the rules for the PISA study, and thus they know whether it has been carried out correctly on the basis of these rules or not. We also know that the percentages raised by the Moderates are not correct. This is not about all schools participating in the PISA study, but about a number of schools and a number of pupils participating. They are very few, given the number of students we have throughout the country. What is the purpose of the Moderates? I still haven't got an answer to the question.
i-ecb950eda740268d-310	Madam President, I would like What is important is that we get a better school for all children. It is tragic to see how the school is failing, not least in our exclusion areas. It is therefore not good to try to hide the problems we have. I'll get Daniel Riazat right on the numbers. It was 24.5 percent that failed that day, not 25 percent. It was 11 percent that were excluded and 131⁄2 percent that would have written the test but that did not come. I think it is important to know what the result would have been if those who would have written the test had done so. We must dare to show and stand up for the problems we have in Swedish school. It won't help anyone if we sweep the problems we have under the carpet. But if you want to agree to the Moderates' proposal to introduce Swedish quality measures that are systematically followed up in all schools, both in free schools and municipal schools, year in and year out, the PISA survey does not get the big impact that it now – right or wrong – gets. The reason we want an independent review of the PISA has now been raised several times from here. This is because the OECD has already approved Sweden's results. If they now admit that they have made mistakes and have to reverse the tape, it would mean that all the other 79 countries may question the OECD's examination and correction of their tests. This is unlikely to happen. But they're wearing till noon. 24 tonight to make such a report. We will have to sit with excitement today and see if they will humbly admit that something has gone wrong. In any case, I look more forward to the Swedish National Audit Office's review than the OECD's.
i-ecb950eda740268d-314	Madam President, I would like I find it extremely important that a Member of Parliament from the Moderates conspires and claims that the OECD, which is an international cooperation organisation for economic development and conducts research and comparative studies between countries, could not admit shortcomings and errors. What basis does Kristina Axén Olin have for claiming that this is the case?
i-ecb950eda740268d-315	Madam President, I would like I hope Annika Hirvonen Falk is right. I have no reason to say that they will not admit if they have made a mistake. But I can see a major problem if they admit it, because it could have consequences for the participation of all other countries. I think there's going to be a fear of being wrong. I'm afraid so. But we'll see. Before noon. 24 tonight, they're supposed to have delivered their final report. Hopefully we'll all be able to access it as soon as possible.
i-ecb950eda740268d-316	Madam President, I would like Therefore, there is no evidence to support that claim. I am pleased that Kristina Axén Olin is clear about this. I wonder, then, why Kristina Axén Olin does not want to wait for the OECD to present her report before she makes rough statements in the pulpit of Parliament that completely undermine confidence in this international organisation – claims that they are not reliable and credible and would not admit if they had missed anything or done something wrong.
i-ecb950eda740268d-318	Madam President, I would like It's just a bit of a rush. Work on the next PISA has already begun. We in Sweden need to find out where it has broken. Is it at school level? Is it at teacher level? Is it at the school office level? Is this about education? Where has it gone wrong in our great exclusion and absence? Should we change it back? Previously, it was not the Swedish National Agency for Education but the higher education institutions that were responsible for PISA. If we are to change back to that, we should have actually already decided on that. If there is anything else to be corrected, it is high time to do so now. That is why we directly proposed an independent review. We have nothing to gain from the OECD doing a review first, as we see it.
i-ecb950eda740268d-319	Madam President, I would like I agree that it's great to have your own quality systems. There is also one such assignment that Anna Ekström has given to our school authorities. It will soon be reported on how this work is going. I think that's very good. But I can't help but react to the high tone of the Moderates. When the Moderates were in government position, the education policy was based on the picture that the Swedish school was a disaster. At that time PISA was very credible. PISA was used as a sledgehammer against the school. The school was also hit with rapid and very badly implemented reforms. Now that we have the power, we can see that the results have turned a little bit. If there are inaccuracies, it is clear that you should overcome them. But at least we see a certain shift, a certain turn in the results. I cannot help but wonder whether the criticism is just about conducting an aggressive opposition policy to discredit the government and the investigation and show that the government is doing nothing right. Is that right, Kristina Axén Olin?
i-ecb950eda740268d-322	Madam President, I would like For me and us Moderates, school is an incredibly important foundation in the whole community, as I said earlier to Daniel Riazat. If there is anything we can do to prevent crime, exclusion and unemployment, it is to ensure that all children are out of school and that all children are out of high school. I have said that many times in the speaker's chair. But this is not the case in Sweden. Obviously, we also seem to have different opinions about what is a good school. Last week, the results came on the nines' final grade. The reaction from your parties was that there were happy results – there has been an increase, and more and more people are becoming eligible for high school. Yes, but this spring there were 16,500 children who graduated from primary school without having passed it. We cannot continue to say that there are good results when 16,500 children do not even have a comprehensive school degree. Another minister in your government, Eva Nordmark, acknowledged the other day that, unfortunately, one third of the unemployed do not have a high school degree and that this is a huge problem. After all, it is a matter of wishing that Eva Nordmark was a minister of school, because she admits that it is a problem when students finish primary school and upper secondary school without qualifications. We must dare to talk about the problems in Swedish school. We should not pretend that everything is fine and that it is moving in the right direction. Because it's something I don't see.
i-ecb950eda740268d-326	Madam President, I would like We share the picture that we have a lot of big challenges in Swedish school. But I still have to come back to the time when you were in government. In 2012, the PISA result was the worst ever. There was a punch in the face. You spent eight years in government, and you invested 60% of the reform space in reducing taxes. 2 percent went to school reform. It contributed to falling learning outcomes, reduced equivalence and greater workload for our teachers. Yes, we share the picture that we have challenges. But I do not believe that the medicine against the problem is more of the policy we have seen for eight years with you at the government. I am genuinely interested in knowing how we should tackle these challenges. We share the picture, but I think we have some different ways of looking at the how. I'm really curious about it, Kristina Axén Olin.
i-ecb950eda740268d-328	Madam President, I would like Mr Hedin asks me about the 2012 budget. It was almost ten years ago, and I wasn't in this house back then. Unfortunately, I cannot answer what the Moderates in Parliament did then. What I can answer is what happens now. Roza! You've been in power for six years. Now more than half the term of office has passed, and I have not seen a single proposal that was important for improving school education. A few weeks ago we received the bill list for the matters that Anna Ekström will bring before January. There is one single matter at school level, and that is the introduction of voluntary grades in grade 4. Is that what Swedish school is missing right now? No, there's a lot of things we should do. We should have smaller classes. We should have more hours. We should have shorter holidays. We should have a clearer focus on knowledge. We should look at every child's opportunity. There's a lot of things we should do, but they don't belong to talking about what happened in 2012.
i-ecb950eda740268d-331	Madam President, I would like First of all, allow me to support the proposal in the report. So continues the parody of the inflated PISA results and, to say the least, the astounding handling of them. Madam President, may I apologise, but it is hair-traveling to hear all the insinuations that are unfairly thrown out into this hall from the left-wing block. Is there a government crisis going on? You wonder. What has got you out of balance today in this debate? Here is the member of the S-member and gives a line talk about some general political phenomenon, with the blindfolds on what it is really about. Are not the Social Democrats concerned about the data that has come to light? Is it not serious that it is claimed that the results have been wrong? Do you not see all the opinions about why they have become wrong? What has happened to the Social Democracy that was once so pragmatic? It's blown away. I think there's reason to be serious. There is reason to be concerned, because these PISA results do not reflect what it looks like in the classrooms around the country. Unless the Social Democrats realise it, it is indeed a serious matter. It is very sad to look at this course of events and the way in which results are manipulated and politicised, and where evaluations are obviously influenced from all sides. To call it something other than a fiasco would be misconduct, and that is exactly what it is: one big fiasco. Already when PISA-rappo r ten arrived in December 2019 we were so verigedemocrats very critical that so many students had been removed from the test – considerably more than in any other country. We therefore felt that the results had been embellished. You didn't want to see reality. That's nothing new. You do not want to see reality, and then you did so even in a study that would show the development of knowledge in the country. It was therefore 11% of students who were excluded, a figure three times higher than the EU average. Of those who were chosen to write the test, 13.5 percent did not show up. Anyone who thinks this is a good basis must probably examine himself. There were a lot of students who should have been present but who suddenly were not. We are in fact accustomed to this approach. In order to try to hide the effects of a completely failed migration policy, you are using statistics in a very creative way. This is not the first time we have seen this. When we had our budget debate in committee on 19 December 2019, there were also high breast tones from the government parties. A working victory, a member said about the PISA report. One result to enjoy, said another. But the PISA report was used as proof of how excellent the Social Democratic school policy is. Those Members, including me, who criticised the large number of excluded students in the test were waved away with the declaration that this is indeed the OECD acquis. However, this rush of luck would soon come off. At the beginning of June, the Expressen newspaper reported that a large number of students were deliberately expelled in violation of the rules that the Social Democrats so strongly defended. It was mainly students who certainly lacked language skills but who had been in Sverig e far too long to be covered by the OECD rules on exclusion. They had read Swedish for more than a year and would have been on the test. The principals gave unimaginable reasons for these departures. The Express had even interviewed a rector who said that you have to put the student in the centre and that a student should not write the exam because it feels bad...[I] can't let that student write the exam. I can't believe it! But this is not reflected at all in the speeches that come from the left-wing bloc in this Chamber. Not at all! This is how you ask questions to principals in Finland. There are completely different answers: If you have read Finnish for a year, you take the test – the point ends. It's straight pipes. This is what happens when knowledge development is evaluated in Sweden, and it was in this situation that the government had to crawl to the cross. The Minister for Education and the Director General of the National Agency for Education was called to the committee. An evaluation would now suddenly be carried out – by the OECD and not by any national independent investigation. It was the OECD that had the best knowledge, was the message. So they tried to hide the case and hope for the best. At the beginning of September, the media reported that it is the Swedish National Agency for Education that has been tasked with deciding on the terms and conditions of the review of its own activities. You heard correctly: the Swedish National Agency for Education is therefore to decide on the terms and conditions for the review of its own operations. In addition, a range of information is presented in the media in the form of e-mail exchanges, showing how the Swedish National Agency for Education and the OECD cooperates to find possible explanatory models for why so many students were removed. It is also suggested that the Swedish National Agency for Education tries to influence the review. You don't say it's right or wrong, but somewhere it should stir up anxiety in the left side so that you take it seriously. These are serious claims, and it has even gone so far that a number of professors have gone out saying that what is coming is not an independent review. You fail it. And why does the National Agency for Education want to see the final report before it is presented publicly? Madam President, I would like It would be very nice if the members of the government parties in this House here and now, in connection with this report, took a step back and said okay, we realise that an independent review is needed – if nothing else to take the PISA reports forward seriously and not forever into question. The risk is that it will be so. But that is not the case, of course, because here prestige weighs more than getting facts on the table. The essence of the matter will be a review that will be perceived as politicised and as trying to hide the truth. The Swedish Democrats believe that all types of reviews should be carried out impartially. It is the very foundation of a true democracy and, moreover, a cornerstone of our own constitution. If we upset this principle, we also upset confidence in the political system. Today it's the PISA results. What's tomorrow? We have therefore, together with a number of other parties in the committee, called for an independent, national investigation to be set up that examines the evidence and methods in Sweden's part of the PISA study 2018. For those who have still not understood what an independent audit means, it is an audit that should be completely independent of the bodies and authorities that have been involved in the past. In particular, it shall be an audit in which the government authorities are not in a position to influence the outcome. It's an independent review. That is how it works in a well-run democracy, and I hope it is not too much to ask of the government and its obedient parties.
i-ecb950eda740268d-353	Madam President, I would like Patrick Reslow, in his speech, confirms my worst fears about the motives for the proposal that the Swedish Democrats, together with a number of right-wing parties, are putting forward today. He throws out conspiracy theories that all actors in Swedish schools, together with the international cooperation organisation OECD whose entire trust is based on impartial reviews based on research, statistics and international studies, are part of a conspiracy to darken the consequences of immigration. It's incredible. Perhaps I should no longer be surprised at the zeal with which the Swedish Democrats want to undermine trust in the authorities and in international cooperation organisations. The Swedish democrats are actually part of the international political, populist movement that wants to undermine confidence in social structures and international cooperation. Patrick Reslow says today that the report that he has not yet read, the report that the OECD is to present later today, will be seen as politicised. That's what he says before he reads the report. He has decided that the OECD will not conduct a thorough review of Sweden's participation in PISA. What evidence does Patrick Reslow have that the OECD would not carry out an objective review of Sweden's participation in PISA?
i-ecb950eda740268d-356	Madam President, I would like What is said in the speaker's chair is nonsense – nonsense. That's not what this is about. This is about whether or not it should be an independent review. Sweden is not a banana republic, is it? An independent review is carried out by a Commission or authority that has not been involved in the first process. It's obvious. This is amazing. I will remember this if Annika Hirvonen Falk in some other context wants some form of review, i.e. that the parties involved should do the review. This is not a rule of law. Doesn't the Green Party stand up for the rule of law? It may be a question worth answering. I also do not like words being put in the mouth that have not been said and trying to interpret what I am saying. The Swedish Democrats want an independent review regardless of the results; whether they get better or worse or what. We want an independent review. That is what the matter is about. I'll have to ask Annika Hirvonen Falk to stick to the point.
i-ecb950eda740268d-360	Madam President, I would like The issue here is the mistrust of the OECD, which owns the PISA study and which sets the rules. The government has asked the OECD to review the work of the government, Swedish authorities, schools and vice-chancellors to conduct the OECD study. This is where Patrick Reslow has already taken a stand, and he has said that the OECD's review of how Sweden has carried out the study will not be objective, impartial, but that it will be perceived as politicised. I ask once again what evidence Patrick Reslow has to claim that there has deliberately been a conspiracy of which the OECD is also part. The proposal today is about saying that what the OECD is putting forward cannot be trusted. I very much understand the wish – and I agree with it – that we should get the facts on the table. But even before you have read and read the OECD report, you have decided that it cannot be trusted. I wonder why.
i-ecb950eda740268d-362	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk improved a bit at the end. It is often the case that people who try to claim that there is a conspiracy themselves are conspiracy theorists. Here is not a conspiracy, but here it has been a review where the National Agency for Education has been involved and where the OECD has been involved. There is evidence that the figures are not correct, and there is information in the media that it is now pre-empting discussions between the National Agency for Education and the OECD. We don't know if the data is correct. In that situation, to say that the OECD is to carry out an audit is not good for the rule of law. We'll have all the facts on the table. There must then be independent scrutiny. That review shall seek the views of the OECD. But since the OECD has been a party to the case, it is the OECD study, the OECD cannot do the review. That's not how it works anywhere. That is about the same as allowing a department to deal with the constitutional committee's audits. It's just as preposterous. It has to be impartial. That is how it works in a democracy – in the rule of law. I do not know if the wish is for Sweden to be like any banana republic. We Swedish democrats do not want that; we want to uphold the principles. That is why I would like to see an independent review.
i-ecb950eda740268d-366	Madam President, I would like I find it amusing when a Member who cannot even keep track of his own receipts is standing here in the speaker's chair talking about reviewing the entire education system. Enough about that. You have to listen to the Swedish Democrats to understand what the Moderates really want. Here it emerges that it is not really a question of whether there has been an error or not. Everyone here agrees that if something has gone wrong, it must be corrected. Here it is about a completely different purpose, namely to shift the focus away from important issues that are about, for example, the decline in equality in the Swedish school, which the OECD has talked about many times, to transfer the focus to a debate where the authorities are suspected and where they put forward a conspiracy theory that all actors have joined forces to cheat in the PISA study. What is also clear here is that Patrick Reslow does not even know the criteria for PISA. One of them is that PISA is based on volunteering, which means that you can't force anyone. Another criterion is that students who have studied Swedish for less than a year and who have not mastered the Swedish language well enough should not be included in the survey. And there are a number of other criteria. It is also possible to exclude entire schools for various reasons. These are the OECD criteria. What is the purpose of the Swedish Democrats to add to a conspiracy theory, which is basically based on the Party's racist idea?
i-ecb950eda740268d-370	Madam President, I would like Untrue statements about me as a person in the speaker's chair are the subject of a discussion with the President. But we can do that later. We are certainly familiar with the OECD acquis. We know what it looks like. Daniel Riazat does not need to stand here and master, as he so often tries to do, and to prove himself well that he has read through the OECD regulations. We can. The problem is that Daniel Riazat and his left-wing friends do not want independent reviews. He does not want a Commission or committee, completely independent of the bodies that have carried out the PISA report, to see what is right and what is wrong. Why? Perhaps Daniel Riazat himself does not want the cards on the table, that Daniel Riazat is afraid of what such an independent review would come up with, that it was not as good a result as one could expect, that there are bigger problems in Swedish school than Daniel Riazat wants to see. Sweden should not be a banana republic, but Sweden should not be a Communist dictatorship either. The audits shall be independent and shall not be attended by the parties involved. That is how democracy works, and that is what the Swedish Democrats stand for.
i-ecb950eda740268d-374	Madam President, I would like No, Sweden should not be a banana republic, as it sometimes seems to be when representatives of the Swedish Democrats stand in the pulpit. What gets funny again is the conspiracy theory, which now also includes me because I have something to lose from other tasks on the subject. I would like to make it clear once and for all that everyone in the Chamber, including the parties we do not cooperate with because the Left Party is in opposition, thinks it should come out if there are errors. That's where we all agree. Then we can leave the attempt to remove the focus from what the issue is really about, namely that the Swedish Democrats, together with a couple of other parties, get excited about an issue. They do so in an aggressive way to remove the focus from many important issues, including segregation in Swedish schools and the decline in equality. I find it remarkable that a Member of the Swedish Parliament nevertheless clearly shows hostility towards the authorities and persons responsible for the matter. Nor is it trusted that the organisation that has itself set the criteria for a test can actually examine whether countries included in the survey have complied with the criteria. Let us also be clear about saying that the rules are not unique to Sweden. All countries participating in OECD measurements are based on the same regulatory framework. There are no exceptional cases there, but everyone follows them. Again: Why do the Swedish Democrats want to create suspicion against the Swedish National Agency for Education, against the OECD, against all actors? Apparently, the Left Party is also part of the conspiracy. Why?
i-ecb950eda740268d-379	Madam President, I would like Conspiracies here and there... I might as well talk to a wall, it seems. I have said that the principle must be that if you are going to examine things, the parties who have produced a basis should not be involved in the review itself. Since it is the OECD's PISA survey, they are not the ones to review here. It won't be right. Here it should be a national independent review where the OECD is a party and where it examines what data the OECD has received and how they have acted. The National Board of Education will be another party. This is in order to get the most concrete facts possible. This doesn't seem to the Left Party to understand or want to understand. It's hard for me to understand what's so hard. We say that we should have an independent review, and the OECD does not fit in there. Then they try to do this to make us hostile to the authorities. We are not hostile to the authorities. But you should never examine yourself. It is a fundamental principle of the rule of law: Never examine yourself! It shouldn't be done in this case either. I hope that Daniel Riazat will understand what we mean at some point, but it seems to be over.
i-ecb950eda740268d-385	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. The PISA reports are an incredibly important value indicator for the state of OECD schools and for cross-country benchmarking. When Sweden had results during the OECD average for a number of years, it became an important driver for quality and knowledge development. But this is based on the comparability of the samples. There is a well-developed set of rules for which pupils are to participate and who are to be excluded in view of the inadequate language skills of the student and therefore the test results cannot be expected to reflect the student's real knowledge. In concrete terms, the requirement is that the student should have been taught Swedish for a year. Much has already been said and written on this issue, and I shall not repeat the debate that has been held here. However, since the proportion of Swedish students who were excluded from the test far exceeded the proportion of students who had only been taught Swedish for one year, there is a great risk that the result is not representative of the Swedish school as a whole. Each of us was able to read this until the day the report was published. We didn't have to wait for any Expressen journalism to do that. It was good that the government reacted and wanted to investigate the issue, but the method of evaluation risks failing credibility. When the relevant authority investigates itself and when the OECD investigates with the help of the National Board of Education's administrator, there is a risk that any maladministration will not be detected. I therefore call for the committee's proposal with a committee initiative to set up an independent inquiry without delay to review the evidence and methods used in Sweden's part of PISA 2018 and how these affected the outcome.
i-ecb950eda740268d-392	Madam President, I would like The parliamentary majority in the Education Committee puts me, one of the initiators of this committee's request for independent scrutiny, at the end of the list of speakers. Unfortunately, however, we know that if the Centre Party maintains its reservation, the outcome of today's vote will be that our demand for independent external scrutiny falls into the Chamber. I very much regret that. Madam President, I would like I support our request and the Committee on Education's proposal for an independent external review. It is remarkable what things are being put on the table by the other colleagues in the Committee on Education. The Liberals demanded, as a first step, that the Director General of the National Agency for Education and later also the Minister for Education be called to the Education Committee during the late spring to be questioned about the government's handling of PISA 2018. Even when the National Agency for Education visited the Education Committee in December, it was admitted that there were some problems with the selection, that one should be careful when drawing conclusions and that the upturn that we all welcomed should be interpreted with some caution. As early as December, the Swedish National Agency for Education acknowledged that there are a number of parts in the handling, in the base, which means that we cannot be 100% sure of the conclusions that are drawn. What is remarkable is the data that emerged before the summer, namely that it may be that the category of students who have lived in Sweden for a number of years – and then I am not talking at all about those who came from Syria or Iraq in 2015 and onwards – does not master the Swedish language based on the pace or development that is normally forecasted and that it is where there has been an exclusion, an over-exclusion. If that's true and if it affects the results and conclusions of PISA 2018, we don't know that – neither do I. It is therefore important and crucial that we have an external independent review. I noted, Madam President, that, just 24 hours after our criticism, I woke up to the news that Minister of Education Anna Ekström went out – in principle forced to go out – and announced that the OECD should review the PISA measurement. The night before and also in the morning that same day in June, the National Board of Education went out and said: We have made no mistakes. We see no reason to question the method of selection, and we have no reason to push through an ex-post review. But the Swedish National Agency for Education had to accept that its client the government contacted the OECD and asked for an ex-post review. We in the Liberals are not behind this approach. We do not support the government's handling of contact with the OECD and the request that they review the PISA measurement. Many reasons have been raised. But an independent review also means carrying out an independent review, and it cannot be said that it is when both the OECD and the National Agency for Education and the Government, i.e. all the parties involved, sit around the table and go through the economy, the budget, the timetable, the criteria, the indicators etc. It is neither free, independent nor independent. That is why our demand is important, Madam President. I note that even if we do not get through today's proposals because of the reservations, there will be an external review, and we welcome that. It is the Swedish National Audit Office that has made that assessment, and I assume that they are not populists. They have taken note of the public debate and debate in committee and of the information that has emerged in the media. Moreover, we have another activity, the State's school inspection, which usually reacts to the data when the media detects shortcomings or some school related to extremism or whatever it may be. I am on the Transparency Council, and I am regularly told that people are reacting to media data. I don't have a problem with that. They're carrying out their mission, and they're doing their job. Do not come to this House and question our motives or what we really want to achieve! You can have it your way, those of you who do not want to see an external independent review. You will reject this proposal, which we started work on before the summer. PISA is the most important international measurement for Sweden in the school field. PISA is a crucial part of Swedish school policy – it has been regardless of which government has been in the Ministry of Education. No one will forget when Gustav Fridolin and the Environmental Party presented the School Commission in spring 2015. The main argument and the main motivation for the School Commission's work was Sweden's development in the latest PISA results. This is therefore important. No matter what they come up with and no matter what this lands in, we want confirmation of whether it is a rise, as we saw in the presentation in 2019, or whether there are errors affecting the conclusions. That is the motive and purpose of the Liberals.
