i-2cad9b54e65f5196-2	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what analysis I have done about the causes of the increased toxins in fish in Sweden and what I and the government have done so far to reduce the toxins in our seas and what measures I intend to take to reduce the toxins in fish. Furthermore, Lars Beckman asks me what concrete measures I intend to take to pick up poison barrels in the Baltic Sea. Finally, he also asks what impact assessment has been carried out for the cancellation of emission allowances and whether the costs have been set against other environmental and climate measures that Sweden can take, for example in the work for a cleaner Baltic Sea. Fat fish from the Baltic Sea contain high levels of environmental toxins. Each year, the Finnish Food Authority examines the levels of dioxins and PCBs in Baltic Sea fish. In 2018 salmon saw lower levels than in previous years, while in 2019 they had increased since the previous year. Over a five-year period from 2014 to 2019, there is still a trend towards falling levels. In order to be able to follow the levels of environmental toxins in the Baltic Sea, among others, environmental monitoring is crucial. The Government has therefore made several investments in environmental monitoring of the sea and water and proposes further investments in the budget proposal for 2021. Although concentrations of environmental toxins in Baltic fish appear to fall over a five-year period, they are alarmingly high. There is therefore a need for further action. The government has made major investments in clean seas since 2018 to remove environmental toxins from our seas and waters, including by cleaning contaminated sediments and environmentally hazardous wrecks and reducing the emissions of pharmaceutical residues. All these measures aim to detoxify the sea and contribute to the continued decline in the levels of environmental toxins in fish. Madam President, I would like As I have explained on previous occasions, remediation of environmental toxins is a priority for the government. The government has made major efforts to increase the pace of clean-up work. An important starting point is that State resources should be used when there is no one who can be held liable for the costs. During 2020, the Government has also allocated SEK 27 million to the relevant authorities for a special mission that will take a greater hold on the pollution in Sweden's seas and waters. This mission can contribute to better knowledge of the dumped poison tunnels as well as other pollutants in our seas and waters. I also announced this week that the government is proposing an additional SEK 350 million in the budget proposal for the clean-up proposal in 2021 to reduce the spread of environmental toxins. With regard to the cancellations, I would like to start by making it clear that it is not about allowances within the EU ETS, the ETS, but about emission units under the EU's ESD and the Kyoto Protocol. In the budget bill 2020, Parliament has authorised the Government to carry out these cancellations. Under the EU ESD, trading in EAUs can only take place bilaterally between Member States. So far, only single transactions have been carried out, and the price is often set as part of a larger agreement between countries. There is no market price. Against this background, the Government considers that no economic value can be stated for the Swedish surplus. At the same time, by cancelling emission units that we do not need, we are reducing the EU's total emission space, which increases the conversion pressure in other Member States. As far as the Kyoto Protocol is concerned, Sweden will not need all acquired allowances to achieve its climate targets, and the government believes that the best thing for the climate here too is to cancel them. In conclusion, the value of these emission units is small and uncertain. So Lars Beckman's statement on their value is not true. K limat benefit from these units is greater if cancelled. The Government's policy is aimed at reducing emissions both in Sweden and abroad. A the cancellation of emission units is just one of several tools. At the same time, the government is making major efforts for a cleaner sea and reduced environmental toxins in our seas and waters, for example in the Baltic Sea. So this is not about either or. The R edge does both.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to this interpellation is that there are 23 000 dumped poison barrels between Sundsvall and Gotland. And as the Government said, there is poison along the coast of Gävleborg, where there has been paper pulp production in which mercury has been used. In this case, it is not in itself a question of dumping. Madam President, I would like Imagine that you are a committed environmental person. Imagine getting involved in an environmental party. Imagine, Madam President, that you may become Minister of the Environment. Imagine, Madam President, that you know that there are ten tons of mercury dumped only between Sundsvall and Gotland. Think, Madam President, what good things you could do for the environment. What do you do? It subsidizes 11⁄2 billion electric bicycles. It seemed reasonable to me. I think there is every reason to evaluate the government on the basis of what it is doing and not on the basis of what it is saying. The facts of the case are that there are 23 000 dumped venom barrels with 10 tons of mercury per se. The nasty thing, Madam President, is that we do not know where 20 000 of these poison barrels are. And how can you bring them up if you don't even know where they are? The government says that 350 million are being invested in purifying poisons, and that is a good thing. But how much is 350 million distributed throughout Sweden? Well, Madam President, just to clean the bay at Iggesund, where there are a lot of poisons along the coast, estimates the County Administrative Board would cost 400 million – 400 million in one bay! The Government is talking about 350 million in Sweden. The government is shaking its head, but if there is 350 million in Gävleborg, thank you. What has happened during the government's time in power? Has the toxins in the fish increased or have they decreased? If you are interested in facts, you can visit the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website. As can be seen from the paper I hold up, there is the increase in mercury in Baltic herring along our coast. So we are talking about increasing mercury in Baltic herring along our coast. Of course, this has to be broken. It has to stop. A real environmental policy must be pursued, Madam President. As for the dumped poison barrels, the companies had all the permits. At the time, this was the way it was done. It was stupid. It was extremely stupid. But it does not matter, Madam President. Almost 20 years have passed about who will pay to pick up the poison barrels, but it is actually uninteresting. It is known that there are ten tons of mercury dumped in 20,000 barrels. You don't know where they are, but they have to get out of the water, Madam President. Then you'll have to keep fighting over who's going to pay. If you want to make a real difference, you really care about environmental policy and you really get to grips with the problems. It is unworthy of Sweden that the mercury in the Baltic herring increases after our coast. It is harmful and dangerous, and it must stop.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-20	I would like to remind the honourable Member that it is the spoken word that applies and that we do not use any kind of props in the speaker's chair.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-21	Madam President, I would like Government Isabella Lövin! I am an archipelago resident and passionate about the Baltic Sea. I was born out there. There are my fathers' tracks. My grandfather was an active sailor for many years and owned large homes in the archipelago. That's why I'm passionate about us having a good aquatic environment. I have been assigned by the Moderates to chair the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association, which is an honour. We work with status measurements of the Baltic Sea's water in both outer archipelago and inner archipelago. We note today that water quality is slowly improving. However, the bottoms are still very low in oxygen. One might ask why. Madam President, I would like What does it look like in the archipelago for real? Well, here's what it looks like: the water status is not good. Then why is that? Is it because the islanders have misbehaved themselves and have too many docks? No, it is because the Soviet Union evicted toxins and sewage in the Baltic Sea. In Paldiski, a town twinned to Norrtälje Municipality, where I was a municipal councillor for many years, they had oil power stations that only drew more and more oil. You just raised the pressure. But no more oil was used, but it went right out into the Baltic Sea. That is what happened in the Communist states. In 1975 this congregation decided to socialize fishing. The fishing waters that we archipelagoers owned became accessible to everyone, without a penny in compensation to the water owners. This was the great socialist era in Sweden. The government took water from us, but did not take responsibility for replanting fish. You just let this go and thought we'd keep doing it. Many of the older archipelago men also did. They were replanting. But they're tired too. Now most of them have passed away. What else is going on? Yes, the seal eats a lot of fish. In the archipelago we have a large seal population with an estimated 30 000 seals. They eat two to three kilos of fish a day. The cormorant eats six hectos a day. The fish is decreasing all the time. Everybody wants to know why. It is time to introduce more hunting for mainly cormorants and seals. People, especially us decision-makers, need to understand what the problems are. It is high time that the state assumed its responsibilities, replaced the water owners and developed a replanting plan. In addition, the Green Party is today pursuing a policy with a lot of flosskeler and little action. If you have poison cans in the Gulf of Gävle, why don't you pick them up and spend these 100 million on it if you really care about the environment, instead of punishing motorists and people who go to work, pay taxes and contribute to our welfare? Private ownership is the guarantor of good environment. We need to strengthen ownership. People must be given greater freedom to dispose of the land and water they own. If others are to have access to land and water, the owner should be compensated. If the Government really cares about the environment, I think it should process the countries that burn with coal, because coal is the big villain in the world. 60% of all heating is done today with coal.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-30	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman and Kjell Jansson for their contributions. I would really like to echo Lars Beckman's call to stick to the facts in the case. The honourable Member writes in his interpellation that the levels of toxins in fish have increased and link it with the mercury barrels in the bay. What is meant by this is a survey by the Finnish Food Agency, where samples from one year to another have shown increased levels of dioxins and PCBs, not mercury. We have environmental monitoring that follows longer time series. It does not take different samples from different stocks, but it does so in a scientific way, so that the levels can be monitored. There we see a slow decline. I find it very unfortunate that the honourable Member in his interpellat ion is making these interconnections, which are not in line with reality. In his interpellation, the honourable Member also makes a statement that he has not commented on during the debate, namely that we have scrapped allowances to a value of more than SEK 3 billion. I would really like the Moderates to be able to bring about a real climate and environmental policy and to understand the difference between, on the one hand, emission units between the EU Member States and, on the other hand, the EU ETS. The latter is a market mechanism in which operators buy and sell emission allowances with a market price. The units do not currently have one. The same applies to the kyoto units. When I look at the shadow budgets of the Moderates, I understand that there is complete confusion about this issue in your party, because you are allocating funds to mechanisms that are about to end under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. Here I sincerely hope that you can look a little closer at what you claim. As far as the clean-up charge is concerned, it is not a total of 350 million. That's why I was shaking my head. This is an increase for BP 2021. Since the government took office, we have increased the clean-up premium from SEK 400 million in 2014 to over SEK 1 billion in 2021. In addition, we have made direct efforts to clean up our seas. Between 2018 and 2020 we have invested more than SEK 700 million. Further facts in the case: No matter how worried I am about the poison tunnels, there are 1,100 heavily contaminated areas in Sweden that our authorities have pointed out. In your county alone, there are seven areas that are more serious than the poison barrels. The important thing in this for taxpayers is that the polluter should pay. There's an errand going on. A company has just been sentenced to pay 36 million kronor to make studies of the poison barrels. I think it is a reasonable fiscal policy and a reasonable management of taxpayers' money that polluters should be allowed to finance clean-up, that we should use tax funds to go to the most dangerous areas that our authorities and experts point out and that we should take it in the order that the authorities point out.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-35	Madam President, I would like Then we just found out that the Government spends more money on the subsidy of electric bicycles than trying to clean up poisons. That's a good piece of information. Madam President, I would like I am not allowed to show the table again, because the President is so annoyed. But I think that anyone who is interested in this question should read what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Minister's own authority, writes. Perhaps it would be instructive for the Minister to read what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency writes on its side. There is a headline dealing with mercury in muscle from herring and herring 1980–2017. I assume, in any case, that the President will allow me to read. The fish here is believed to be influenced by local sources in the Gulf of Gävle and therefore cannot be considered representative of the entire Bothnian Sea. That is, of course, correct. That is exactly what my interpellation is about, the toxins that are after the coast between Sundsvall and Gotland. Then you can use arguments like: There is so much, so we do nothing. No, Madam President, I do not think that can be done. Our children, grandchildren and grandchildren do not deserve a government that does not take these issues seriously. Only yesterday, you burned a few hundreds of millions in raised contributions. What if, instead, you had used that money to clean up the Baltic Sea from poisons? What if you had used that money to try to pick up and identify the 23,000 dumped poison barrels with 10 tons of mercury in it? It's about ten tons of mercury. The Government knows that they are at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. The government reasonably knows that these concrete lumps are crumbling. Only a year ago, when we last had this interpellation debate, concrete lumps leaking mercury have continued to crumble. Those are facts. I saw some news interview where it was claimed in the media that the Government had been involved in these issues. I'm not questioning the commitment. But I question the ability to make a workshop out of the commitment. It's about the ability to prioritise right. It is the ability to think: Is it reasonable to subsidise electric bicycles, or should we take ten tons of mercury out of the Baltic Sea? That's what I'm talking about. How do I want to use billions? What is the opportunity for a minister and government to write clear regulatory letters to their authorities and properly instruct what to do to clean the Baltic Sea from mercury? It's one of the most toxic things in the world. I think that the Government and those who may see this debate should go into the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website and look at the table that is there and see if the mercury has increased or decreased in the fish in the control measurements that have taken place since 1980. In particular, they will look at what the table has been like from 2014 onwards. I'm not allowed to bring this up and show you. But if the TV viewers go in and look at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website and look at nanograms per gram wet weight for Baltic herring, they can see the facts. When the Government returns to the Ministry, the Government will be able to produce the table and look. Then the Government can consider whether it is reasonable for mercury in fish to increase when it should actually decrease. I hope that future governments will take this issue more seriously and that future governments will see to it that we get poison barrels out of the sea. We should not have a situation where the amount of mercury in herring is increasing after our coast.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-47	Madam President, I would like The question remains, Minister Isabella Lövin. Is e-bike subsidies more important than taking care of the Baltic Sea's aquatic environment and taking up poison barrels? What's more important? It feels like it's just placard politics that's driven and made up with everything. It's subsidies for things that are unsound. You also go in with bonuses – malus and control the car industry, as the market should do. You are going in and disrupting the market economy with your policy. It is highly harmful to Sweden and highly harmful to our export industry. Now you're also trying to stop the refinery down in Lysekil. Many thousands of jobs will disappear in that case, even though the authorities, the Land and the Environmental Court of Appeal, have said yes. I would also like to point out that I am not getting an answer to the question of fish stocks. What is the action plan for that? The government and the state must take responsibility. You have gone in and taken water and annexed and do not answer the question of replanting. In addition, illegal hunting is now taking place in the archipelago on seals with commercial companies that go out and shoot seals on our waters. There's also a hole in the law. The prosecutor is looking at cases, but he finds it difficult to find room to prosecute.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-51	Madam President, I would like I will confine myself, if the President will allow me, to the issues on which the interpellation debate is concerned and do not deal with other issues which are thrown into the debate. I also want to stick to the facts of the case. Here the e-bike premium has been developed a number of times. Reference has been made to a sum of 1.5 billion. That's not true. The e-bike premium was 300 million. It has not cost taxpayers 1.5 billion. On the other hand, the Moderates in their shadow budget, for example, want to subsidise petrol and diesel by reducing the CO2 tax. It is the most effective instrument we have to reduce emissions. It is a cost of 6 – 7 billion for taxpayers. The Moderates also want to happily subsidise Bypass Stockholm and other major motorway constructions for many billions also funded by taxpayers in the interior of Norrland and all over Sweden. I really want to question this strange way of attacking a climate and environmental policy that is actually moving in the right direction. When it comes to mercury in Sundsvall Bay, there is, as the honourable Member says, a lot of mercury that has been leaked. According to studies from the County Administrative Board and others, sources other than the barrels are considerably larger in scope. With regard to what is in the barrels, the latest study has not found that there are major leaks at the moment. That said, I'm concerned about the barrels. There is now a process of investigation in which a responsible company has been identified. The costs of these studies should not be borne by taxpayers, but by the polluter-pays principle, which I think is reasonable. In no way does the government turn a blind eye to these issues, quite the contrary. We have increased the funding several times since the government took office. When the Moderates got the chance in their shadow budget that they voted through together with KD and SD, the environmental grant was reduced very sharply. This was particularly true of the allocation to our authorities, which are responsible for monitoring and ensuring that this can be addressed. As far as the EU ETS is concerned, I note that Lars Beckman is not responding to it. It is quite remarkable that a party that is Sweden's second largest party does not have sufficient track of how the emissions trading system works, how the EU's burden-sharing mechanism works and how the Kyoto Protocol works and when it ends. Talk about making symbolic policies when you want to spend a number of hundred million dollars on buying allowances under the Kyoto Protocol, just as the Moderates want, when it is a system that is about to end and that has no effect whatsoever in reality. Government policy is really about making a real difference. What I wonder is how the honourable Member thinks we should prioritise the poison tunnels over the other seven designated areas in Västernorrland and Gävleborg County as indicated by the authorities. Why should we give priority to poison barrels? Is Lars Beckman in charge? It's very interesting. It can certainly be good news to the voters that it is Members of Parliament who decide the authorities in relation to which contaminated areas are the most important.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-63	Madam President, I would like A good sign that a minister is on a bicycle– perhaps not on a subsidised bike– is that the government spends two minutes out of four talking about the policy of the Moderates. We are happy to do so, Madam President. I'm proud of it. We make a real difference. For example, we did so in our shadow budget for last year when we allocated more money to this issue than the government did. But, of course, the Government already knows that. Madam President, I would like To engage in environmental policy is to engage in real issues. It is not, as my colleague Kjell Jansson says, symbol politics, flashy press conferences and politics that might fit hipsters on Södermalm, what do I know? It is about really finding the issues that are real. That mercury, which is one of the most dangerous toxins in the world, should come out of our waters should be obvious to everyone. And just as I said: Only to clean the bay after our coast in Iggesund in Hudiksvall municipality calculates the county administrative board would be at a cost of 400 million. Then Isabella Lövin says there are 1,000 more places. It is possible that there are 1 000 more places that also cost 400 million. That does not make the question any less important! When there are ten tons of mercury dumped in 23 000 poison barrels between Sundsvall and Gotland, it goes without saying that they must get out of the water. I have a picture here that I am not allowed to show here in the speaker's chair, but it is on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website. It goes without saying that it is deeply unfortunate that mercury increases so much in the measurements that have taken place since 1980 at our control points. That should make an environmental minister sleepless. It should involve an environmental minister in an issue that is important for everyone who consumes fish or for anyone who is concerned about the environment at all.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-69	Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is the Member of Parliament, Mr Beckman, who will decide over our authorities and exactly what to allocate the funds available. In addition, we are apparently to deviate from the polluter-pays principle. I am, to say the least, concerned about all the thousands of areas in Sweden where we have old environmental sins after activities. This is one of the most flagrant things you can talk about. I understand that it is very grateful to talk about something that can be identified as poison barrels, but we also have much more poison in sediments on the bottoms. There will continue to be dioxins with sea winds in the air from the continent. It is also this that is addressed by oily Baltic fish today, and that is why pregnant women and children are not recommended to eat fatty fish more than two or three times a year because there may be a risk of harm to the cognitive development of foetuses. This is terrible. Yeah, it can make me sleepless at night. But we cannot stare at a single question and at the level of the Member of Parliament say exactly what to do. That is to depart from the principle we have in this country that it is our expert authorities that are given the task and responsibility to identify what is to be done. It is not as simple as that the barrels should necessarily be taken up. It is also something that this study should look at. Can you cover them? Is there another way to do it that is safer? It is not as simplistic as the honourable Member says. I would like to repeat once again that there is no government that has committed so much money to the clean-up of our seas as this government.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-74	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me when the government will announce whether Preem is allowed to expand its refinery in Lysekil. Preem's application concerns the expansion of the refinery in order to convert all residual oil into diesel and petrol in the first place and a smaller quantity into low sulphur ship fuel. This also applies to an increased flow of raw materials and the possibility of refining renewable raw materials. Preem has stated that the CO2 emissions from the requested activity could amount to 2.7 million tonnes per year. The government now has the matter on its table. The government's examination of the admissibility of activities is regulated in Chapter 17. the environmental code. The decision to reserve the examination was made on the basis of Chapter 17. Section 3 of the Environmental Code. The fact that the Government is testing whether activities with a high environmental impact can be allowed is nothing new. For example, road projects such as E4 Bypass Stockholm, Ostlänken, the final repository of nuclear fuel in Östhammar and a new fairway to Södertälje. As far as the matter at hand is concerned, I cannot go ahead with the examination and make a statement on the substance of the matter. In this context, I would like to make it clear that the Government is determined to work towards the Parliament's agreed goal of Sweden not achieving net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045. We also have a vision that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The government is committed to ensuring that the emissions trading system works as well as possible and has driven what is called The Swedish Proposal, which means that allowances will be cancelled over time if there is a larger surplus. This has contributed to the fact that the price of allowances has multiplied in recent years and that real emissions will decrease. In addition, there are specific provisions for activities which significantly increase their production and which remove the allocation of current allowances from a reserve outside the usual pot of allowances. For the government, it is important that the matter is handled in a legally secure and thorough manner where the conditions are properly analysed. The matter is a high priority, and the Government intends to make decisions as soon as the processing is completed.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-79	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Climate is one of today's major global issues. Nevertheless, the government has a narrow nationalistic view of climate policy – when everyone knows that climate impact goes beyond national borders. Sweden has a responsibility to reduce our emissions. But the government does so consistently in a way that increases emissions globally. The Government's air tax moves routes from southern Sweden to Copenhagen. When Ringhals l and 2 close their production of nuclear power, experts expect significant increases in emissions in the EU as the use of dirty coal increases. Now the government, or the Green Party, wants to say no to Preem's expansion in Lysekil despite the fact that the refinery emits 20% less carbon dioxide than the corresponding refineries in Western Europe and despite the fact that industrial emissions are already regulated by the EU emissions trading scheme. Climate policy must not be reduced to something that will deafen our bad conscience here in Sweden through measures that increase emissions elsewhere. The ultimate objective of climate policy must be global emission reductions. The government does exactly the opposite. I see several problems, Madam President, dealing with one from the government side of Preem. First of all, you go very late into the process. In an almost unique decision, the government decided to take over the case when judgments from the first instance already exist. In practice, a judgment is thus reviewed. It brings to mind other countries, with which we do not usually want to compare ourselves, where politics is made out of law. Secondly, Madam President, it is about climate nationalism, which I have already touched upon. We need instruments to reduce the use of fossil fuels. This is why the Moderates are investing in a substantial expansion of charging poles for cars and trucks throughout Sweden and want to make demands on the incorporation of biofuels into cars and aircraft. But we can certainly agree that during a transitional period certain production of petrol and diesel will be needed, and I think it is better that this is produced in Sweden with more environmentally friendly technology and lower emissions. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, when experts agree that we urgently need global instruments, it is a little doubtful that the Green Party and possibly the government – we will see – want to undermine the powerful system that we actually have at European level to regulate emissions. If the government says no to Preem, the government also breaks the foundations of the climate policy framework, which the Riksdag has adopted. The framework states that industrial emissions will be regulated within the EU's emissions trading scheme; that was very clear to the Environmental Objectives Committee. This should not be done by government decision. Moreover, it is clear in the framework that we must not achieve our climate targets at the expense of emissions rising globally. Madam President, I would like Preem's application also deals with the possibility of producing biofuels. We agree across block borders that we need more demands on the incorporation of biofuels. But we also all know that it is expensive and that there is too little production today. I believe that it is an important piece of the puzzle on the issue of Preem's expansion that we ensure more production of biofuels. Finally, we have now seen several years of legal pirouettes on this issue. Now I see an obvious risk of the government delaying the issue further. I note that we did not receive so much information from the Government on the time aspect as on the correct assessment and handling of the matter with the accuracy it requires. But can the Government say anything? Could it take years? Can we see a decision before the end of the year? Is it weeks, months or years? Can the Government say anything else? Many people – jobs, growth and the environment – are waiting.
i-5poxA27HRoWtiCkXFjMwRk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! First of all, we agree with the Riksdag that the climate targets should be met. We have agreed on that. The target year is 2045, and it is the government's duty to steer policy so that it becomes possible. This requires a transformation of society where the government needs to take responsibility for complex and difficult issues along the way. The Government is taking an ongoing position on matters relating to the reservation of admissibility tests regarding environmentally hazardous activities. Decisive as to whether the government should reserve the examination or not is whether the activity can be assumed to have a significant environmental impact. The assessment of the impact on the environment that can be tolerated in these cases often involves societal issues that should be resolved from a national perspective, as well as assessments and balances that ultimately involve political positions. In these cases, the legislator, i.e. the Riksdag, has considered that the government has the best conditions to make the necessary general and collective consideration of suitability. In Preemraff Lysekil, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has, among other things, informed the Government that the climate impact of the applied operations can be assumed to be of a significant extent or interventional nature. The government has therefore chosen to reserve this right. Previous examples that can be mentioned where the government has reserved the examination after a notification from an authority or a municipality are Västlänken, Ostlänken and various wind farms. As the Government has reserved the admissibility review, it is the Government and not the Land and Environment Court of Appeal that will decide whether the activity can be permitted. On the question of admissibility, the Land and Environment Court is a review body for the government and in its opinion – here I really want to correct the honourable Member; it was not a ruling but an opinion to the government from the Mark and Environment Court – given its view on the matter. The opinion of the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal is the basis for the government's future review. The government's admissibility review is a statutory part of the review system under the Environmental Code and thus not something that challenges the independence of the courts, quite the contrary. This is part of the environmental code. For the government, it is self-evident that we need to raise such an issue that has such a large and profound environmental impact. Finally, I would just like to say that I certainly share the honourable Member's view that we need a transition as soon as possible and that we also need more biofuels that are sustainably produced. There the government has given very clear information this week that we are providing support for conversion also for biorefineries via Industriklivet. We are also increasing the level of reduction obligation, that is to say the obligation to mix biofuels into petrol and diesel. There are therefore very clear signals here that there will be a market for biofuels. This is a change that we need to make in order for the 4 million cars on our roads today to be able to drive in a less climate-affected way.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-95	Madam President, I would like It's easy to mix apples and pears here. However, we note that the government went into the process unusually late. It is true that the Land and Environment Court has given an opinion, and that is because the government had already taken over the process. But the question had already been raised in the first instance and got the green light. We'll see about that. The Moderates have notified the government to the Constitutional Committee, precisely to examine whether it is appropriate to go in this late. After all, the law stipulates that the government must go in immediately when it wants to examine a matter. Nevertheless, the big question, in addition to the question of form, is, of course, how we reach the Paris Agreement. I understand that Isabella Lövin wants to achieve the Swedish climate goals. So do I. But I do not want to do so at the expense of emissions that are increasing elsewhere. Then it is complex, as the Government says. That is precisely why it is not quite clear that we should say no to expansion, because in reality it can lead to greater emissions elsewhere. If we agree that we are not banning petrol and diesel tomorrow but that it will be produced during a transitional period, I would like to insist that it is better that it is produced in Sweden with better environmental technology than in other EU countries with less environmental technology or perhaps even outside the EU's borders. This also raises the question of what is most important for the Green Party and the government. Is it picking a trophy and being able to say that now we experience that we have done something good for the climate? Or is it really reaching the Paris Agreement and making an overall assessment of what our actions here at home have on the global climate? We can of course shut down all industry in Sweden. That would eliminate a lot of emissions. We can tell SSAB: We don't care that you have ambitions to make steel without coal. We see that your production here and now is generating emissions, so we're shutting down all of your production—even though it has better technology and lower emissions than much other equivalent steel production in the world. Somewhere this is limping in this context. If we still want an industry, we can not only make policies of this kind of decision, especially when the Court of First Instance – and indeed the Land and Environment Court in its opinion – concludes that the environmental code does not give cause to say no to Preem's expansion. Instead, the government will go in and talk about a climate law that is not supposed to be used that way. As I said, the climate policy framework also states that Sweden cannot reduce its emissions at the expense of global emissions. There are therefore many important questions of principle in this context. I believe that both companies around and people affected by job creation, but also people who want a better world and lower emissions, ask themselves what this leads to. If companies, such as Preem, want to develop biofuels, we know that this alone is currently very expensive. I do not believe that we can make demands for the whole production of biofuels to be converted here and now. How can the government guarantee that we can still have a functioning industry that can afford to invest in new and green technologies and which also creates jobs, while at the same time reaching the global climate targets, which must be the aim? Or is it more important to be able to deafen your conscience here in Sweden and turn a blind eye to the fact that emissions are increasing globally?
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-103	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by clarifying to the honourable Member that it was not the government that took the matter from the Land and Environment Court but that it was an appeal from the Nature Protection Association that was granted. The case was thus brought before the Land and Environment Court. The fact that the government took over at a relatively late stage was due to the fact that the intelligence from our authorities came at this late stage. I really must stress that I do not want or can anticipate the judicial examination of this case. It is on the government's table, and we are busy analysing and preparing the matter in a legally secure manner. I would also like to go into the international dimension, as Jessica Rosencrantz points out. First of all, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has announced to the government that the proposed extension of Preemraf can be assumed to have significant climate impact. We are talking here about an application to increase CO2 emissions by 1 million tonnes. We take seriously the climate targets adopted by the Parliament, which are also supported by the Moderates. The government takes responsibility for the climate in Sweden, in the EU and globally. Our ambition is to become the world's first fossil-free well-being dsland, and to get there requires leadership. Let's take that leadership. According to the UN climate convention and the Paris Agreement, all countries, including Sweden, will primarily contribute to the global climate goals by reducing their own emissions. It's in the Paris Agreement. Each country has the responsibility to reduce its own emissions. The Swedish climate targets aim precisely to contribute to the Paris Agreement's objectives and to reduce global warming. If we ignore our own goals, we contribute to a sloping plan where all other countries can do the same. If we in Sweden do not take our climate work seriously, with what voice can we urge the world to take responsibility for the climate? It is by being a forerunner that we have the greatest opportunity to influence global politics, and that is how we get a voice in international climate action. But in addition to this, we will also contribute to reducing emissions in other countries, and we will do so through a strong climate focus in all our development work and in international collaborations. Here I would like to highlight in particular the fact that Sweden has been a key force for reforming the EU's emissions trading system. We presented something called The Swedish Proposal, which now reduces European emissions by over 2 billion tonnes, which corresponds to 50 years of Swedish emissions. This is anything but inefficient politics. This is climate leadership. It makes us have a voice, and the rest of the world listens. I was particularly proud when Mrs von der Leyen gave her speech two days ago, the State of the European Union, in the European Parliament, highlighting an example when she spoke about climate change and the Green Deal. This example is Sweden and our investment in the conversion of the steel industry, Steel without coal. This would not have happened without Sweden's big investment in Industrikliv and our relatively ambitious climate goals that have given clear information to the industry about changing. This is exactly the way all sectors in Sweden must follow now if we are to meet our climate targets.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It is obvious that we in Sweden should take our responsibility. There is no doubt about this, and there is broad support in the Swedish parliament for climate targets, as the Government also pointed out. However, I think it is hypocritical to turn a blind eye to the fact that political decisions in Sweden result in increased global emissions. It is the same with our discussion on nuclear energy that we have had in this House several times. When we know that the alternative in Europe is quite often dirty coal, it is irresponsible to shut down fossil-free Swedish nuclear power production. Similarly, it is problematic, I think, when an individual company applies for permission to expand, the court says yes, there is an appeal, the government takes over and the question also goes to the Land and Environment Court and also that court says that it is green light and that Preem lives up to the requirements of the environmental code. Then I think it is a problematic interpretation of our climate goals to say that this is what it is about, that is, that the government should go in and examine individual companies' applications in this way. We could make it really easy for us. I am not saying this to ralli, but I really mean that we could shut down a lot of Swedish production and industry, and then we would have no emissions. But it's not that simple. We also see that we are in a transition period where many companies switch to more sustainable production. How does the policy meet that transition period? We agree to impose requirements on the incorporation of biofuels, for example, which will be significantly screwed up by 2030. How do we get this production started? Preem is a key player there, we can still agree on that. And the application includes the possibility of producing biofuels, which they cannot today. The question is therefore more complex. I am also very proud of the Swedish industry that is well ahead, but the question here and now is whether we should consciously say no to a production in Sweden that has 20 percent lower emissions than the corresponding refineries in Europe and where such a decision could risk increasing global emissions. Then I put the Paris Agreement at the top of the agenda, not a trophy for the Green Party.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-117	Madam President, I would like It is certainly not the Green Party's policy for all industries to close down and move abroad. We have demonstrated this with all the necessary clarity. Through a multi-billion-dollar investment in Industriklivet, we have now made it possible for us to see an expansion of fossil-free steel production in Sweden that is completely unique in the world. That's amazing! We want every part of the release sectors to follow suit, and we are now seeing many projects that have been launched thanks to the Industriklivet. But here, unfortunately, the Moderates speak with a split tongue, because you want to redistribute the industrial life, the support we give to industry, to some sort of deduction. It has been said by industry that it is completely impossible – you cannot first make multi-billion-dollar investments and then try to deduct a profit that you do not have. It's about years of investment. So this is wrong. It is sometimes said from the Moderates and others that increased emissions in Sweden would lead to reduced emissions in some other country because the EU has an emission ceiling for industry, but that is a misconception. The ceiling is generally not applicable to new installations. When a new installation is built or an installation is expanded significantly, allowances are generally taken from a separate pot that would otherwise be cancelled. That pot isn't inside the roof. If the allowances in it are used, there will be increased emissions. Let me remind you that by law the government needs to have a climate policy that steers towards climate targets. We take this seriously, and that should be done by all parties that want to end up in government. Sweden's climate targets are more ambitious than the EU's. Only we can take responsibility for achieving our own goals. We cannot leave that responsibility to anyone else, anywhere else and any other time, but we must take it now. With regard to this matter, it is important that it be handled in a legally secure manner and analysed properly. Preparation is currently under way within the Government Office. That is a high priority and we intend to take decisions as soon as the procedure is completed.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-122	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me if the government intends to review the regulations for state grants so that study associations that interact with undemocratic Islamist organisations will not be eligible for state grants and review the conditions for the Folkbildningsrådet's grant granting so that the requirements are similar to the requirements on democratic values and gender equality that apply, for example, to the democratic grants distributed by MUCF and SST. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked me whether the government intends to introduce additional control functions to ensure that grants to study associations are used in a way that is in accordance with the democratic conditions of the state contribution to the education of the people. Finally, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether the government intends to carry out an examination of existing regulations and instructions in order to ensure that public funds are not paid out to associations that sanction honour-related crime. First of all, I would like to stress that the actors in public education have a great responsibility to ensure that state aid is used properly. The government has made it clear that government grants should not be given to organisations that carry out activities that run counter to the ideas of democracy. I would like to emphasise that the funds paid to study associations should contribute to the fulfilment of the State's objectives with the state grant. Developing and strengthening democracy is one of these aims. For me, it is a matter of course that contributions to the education of the people should comply with the laws and rules that apply. Taxpayers' money should be handled with respect and caution. Government contributions to the education of the people shall be exclusively devoted to activities that fulfil the aims of the state with the grant and strengthen our common democracy. In the case of state grants such as the Folkbildningsrådet, MUCF and SST benefits, the terms of the grants are regulated by different regulations. To review the terms and conditions of the state grant to civil society and how these are applied, the Government appointed an investigation in 2018 that was tasked with proposing a clarified, legally secure and uniform democracy conditions for the state grant. The report was submitted to the responsible Minister in the summer of 2019. The report includes an examination of existing regulations and proposals for a clearer and uniform democracy framework for state grants to civil society organisations. The proposals also cover the regulation on state aid to adult education. The report has been referred and the proposals are prepared within the Government Office. Amineh Kakabaveh also asks whether the government intends to introduce additional control functions. Madam President, I would like It is essential that State resources are used for the activities for which they are intended and that control mechanisms are in place when State aid has been misused. The Government therefore demands that the Folkbildningsrådet be monitored and reported on the state grant. According to law, the Folkbildningsrådet has been given the task of examining questions about the distribution of state grants between folk high schools, student associations and student organisations within the folk high school. It is the Folkbildningsrådet that decides which associations of students can participate in the state support for adult education according to the regulation(2015:218) on state grants to adult education. It is also the Folkbildningsrådet that monitors and reviews activities linked to the state grant. The system of control at the Folkbildningsrådet includes that the Council can ask questions to the beneficiary, require the beneficiary to carry out an investigation himself and that the Council itself conducts an examination through a review team. The Council has the possibility to recover State aid if it has been wrongly granted or if the funds have not been used for the purpose for which they have been granted. The Council may also decide that a study association shall no longer receive state aid. Based on the report on Ibn Rushd's activities commissioned by the Folkbildningsrådet in 2018, to which Amineh Kakabaveh refers in its question, the Folkbildningsrådet has begun work to develop and strengthen proposals on how the Folkbildningsrådet's follow-up of the entire population formation can be developed and strengthened. The Folkbildningsrådet has also recently taken further action. At the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet's last board meeting on 9 September, decisions were made that will tighten the state grant conditions and strengthen the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet's office with a particular focus on developing control and follow-up work. Department of Education for a dialogue with the Folkbildningsrådet on this work. Finally, on Amineh Kakabaveh's final question, which concerns the examination of existing regulations and instructions for authorities, as I have mentioned, the democratic conditionality investigation in its report has submitted proposals for a clearer and uniform democracy condition for the state grant to civil society organisations, which are being prepared within the Government Office. To conclude, I would like to point out that the actors of peoples' education are taking the trust of society to carry out democratic study activities, and trust must be well managed in order to be earned.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-133	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for a good answer and for explaining the measures that the government has taken or will take! It is gratifying that there are no dividing lines or conflicts with regard to how state subsidies are to be distributed and which organisations are to receive them. We are talking about an organisation called Ibn Rushd. We know that many scientists and public debaters have pointed out for years that this organisation is not appropriate because it is linked to the Muslim Brotherhood and is engaged in anti-Semitic rhetoric. The Swedish Committee against Anti-Semitism has also pointed this out. The researchers Magnus Ranstorp and Aje Carlbom, authors and debaters, have repeatedly come to the same conclusion. Last parliamentary term, I warned the government in this House about this study association, partly because of the view on gender equality. We who work against honour repression and honour crimes are called Islamophobes by Ibn Rushd. The organisation, together with several other organisations, reported Sweden to the UN in 2013 for the work we are doing against honour repression, which was claimed to be Islamophobia and racist. The same organization still receives more than a quarter of a billion dollars. Last year they got 27 million. The local area in Skåne has been reported several times. For example, they expose their students to Islamic texts and religious fanaticism. They're creating a we-and-de-society. They're spreading Western phobia. They do not think that Swedish society is appropriate for those they call. That's not true! This organization does not represent Muslims. Last week Ranstorp and others came with a revelation in Expressen that Ibn Rushd and various other study associations are using tax funds incorrectly. They deal with corruption and other things. The question is why these organisations should receive tax funds to spread hatred and threats, to corruption and to spread Islamism and other extremism in society. It is good that it is now a bill, but when does it come to Parliament's table? It is an important proposition, and many organizations, also Neither whore nor hive, have had to write referrals. But when does it arrive?
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-139	Madam President, I would like I would like to add a liberal who writes on Expressen's debate page today: Grants and support have been given to organisations, communities and schools with an anti-democratic and Islamist view of society. You are destroying for the vast majority of decent Muslims, writes Shervin Ahmadzadeh. I can agree with you on this. I have a lot of Muslim friends. They were born and raised as Muslims. I have met them at different workplaces, when I studied and around in the circle of acquaintances where I live in Norrtälje. But I've never encountered any radical, literal beliefs with the kind of faith that Ibn Rushd stands for. It is a very extreme and radicalized part of Islam that does not represent most Swedish Muslims. I would like to ask the Minister a question: in what way does the Minister think it will reduce polarisation and increase democracy and participation in society when you support this type of organisation? It's like supporting the most extreme variant of Christian organizations in society, like the Knutby Assembly or extreme variants of the Word of Life. Ibn Rushd has links to the Muslim Brotherhood, both informal and formal. It says, among other things, that if the association is dissolved, the money will end up with the European umbrella organisation for the Muslim Brotherhood.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-143	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying to Amineh Kakabaveh that there should be no doubt that honour crimes and oppression of honour have no place in Sweden. It should not have a place in Swedish society, in Swedish school or in Swedish education. The government makes major and important legislative and regulation changes and allocates a great deal of resources to the work against honour repression and violence. This should be clearly stated, and there should be no doubt whatsoever on that point. Amineh Kakabaveh asks a lot of questions based on the reasons for granting grants to a certain study association. As everyone knows, we in Sweden have a system in which I, as a minister, do not interfere with or decide on the application of law. This is clearly written in our constitution. This is something that the whole of our Parliament has supported, and it is something that I accept. I shall not and must not interfere in how authorities or in this case the Folkbildningsrådet makes decisions when they rely on the legislation that Parliament has produced. But I can note that the Folkbildningsrådet has taken a number of initiatives to tighten up the control and follow-up of grants. Only a few days ago, it was decided to tighten conditions and strengthen control. As far as I can understand, Madam President, the Folkbildningsrådet did so for a reason. It is about the revelations that have come from their own study associations about serious accusations of various forms of cheating and misuse of money. Madam President, I would like Not a single penny of our Swedish money that is dedicated to folk education should go to cheating. Not a single penny should go to oppression. The money that we jointly allocate to peoples' education should go to study circles, reading promotion, culture and children's and fathers' reading together. Yes, the money will go to the large amount of very good activities that will occur in our adult education associations. I note that the Folkbildningsrådet has taken a number of initiatives to strengthen control and follow-up. It is also the responsibility of the Folkbildningsrådet according to the legislation that we now have. Then Mikael Strandman has a number of questions about institutionalized oppression. Mikael Strandman goes pretty hard on both an individual study association and a number of extreme Christian directions, to use Mikael Strandman's own words. I think he put it that way. I note that the fact that we in Sweden have an opportunity to conduct secular schools with tax money has strong support in the Swedish democrats. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we see a complete set-up behind the system of religious free schools. Every time the issue has been raised, the Swedish Democrats have stood up for the right of religious communities to conduct free schools. I must leave it to anyone listening to this debate to decide for himself how much is behind Mikael Strandman's criticism of the type of free schools he mentions here.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-152	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Government is as clear as it is when it comes to the fight against the oppression of honour. But the fact is that in these schools– it is among other things Ibn Rushd, The Word of Life and many other Christian schools but also Islamist schools– is the standard of honour oppression. We have heard many times about sex apartheid. The boys are completely free. They can do anything. But the girls' sexuality and behaviors are examined and controlled. It is also an interesting question: does the government come up with a proposal to ban religious schools or not? In fact, the Social Democrats have Congress decisions on this issue. I also wonder when such a bill will come. It is not possible in democracy and in gender equality Sweden to divide by gender – we talk about little girls – and after religion. If you are a Christian extremist, you should have your children in extremist Christian schools. I'm talking about extremist schools, not all of them. I'm talking about those as gender divides, like the Islamic schools-- they're both those that exist within the Folkbildningsrådet and others-- who have done this. I'll come back to the pressure on the Folkbildningsrådet. After a massive criticism and after various social debates, they were finally forced to set up an investigation themselves. This study, carried out by political scientist Erik Amnå, came to about the same conclusions as the researchers and debaters. Ibn Rushd has ideological ties to the Muslim Brotherhood, and in his activities, for example, a great deal has been done in the field of anti-Semitism and homophobia. It has also been pointed out that there are strong patriarchal structures in their ranks. All criticism dismisses this organisation as being Islamophobic and racist. Ibn Rushd and other schools have constantly dismissed this, for they have no moral responsibility towards those who are non-Muslims. That's how we've learned from the beginning. You can lie. You can turn and turn. This is what they do, and it is bought by Swedish naive politicians. You have to look at them differently. They will certainly not agree to any of this. They can write nicely on a piece of paper, but in reality they practice fundamentalism. They practice hatred of Jews, of women, of Christians, and of the West. Yet it does not, I mean, lead to the Folkbildningsrådet dismissing them– I think of Amnås' criticism. They attack researchers and other people who criticize the Folkbildningsrådet. Tax funds shall not be sent or paid to these organisations. There the government has a responsibility.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-158	Madam President, I would like On Ibn Rushd's website it says: We have no formal links with the Muslim Brotherhood. But it says that in many respects they share ideology. I can't believe I could just write like that. Can we really support an alliance that has ideological links to that type of radical Islamism and that has been indirectly involved – the brotherhood has been direct – in the genocide that took place in civil war Syria? I do not understand how we can support such an organisation. What if it had been another type of organization that had written like this: Yes, we have no formal links to White Aryan resistance, but we share the same ideology to some extent. Had they also received support?
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-160	Madam President, I would like Now I got several questions from Amineh Kakabaveh about the secular free schools that we have discussed livelyly in Sweden in recent years – I think it's good that we discuss them. Amineh Kakabaverh! I cannot be a minister of state for purely party political positions, but since I was the rapporteur at the Party Congress in which the Social Democrats supported a total ban on religious free schools, I am well aware of that position. In the January agreement, we in the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, have agreed that we should produce a ban on the establishment of religious free schools. We're working very hard on that in the department. An investigation has been out for a referral, and we are currently going through the referral and see how to proceed with the issue. I can say without revealing too much that these are rather difficult legal balances, because we are moving in an area that is very much about human rights and where different human rights are to some extent being set against each other. But it is a work that we are doing with great enthusiasm in the department together with the Centers and Liberals. Amineh Kakabaveh referred to boys and girls in his question. It is a well-known fact that we have seen that there have been gender-disaggregated groups in a way that should not occur. Here the government has tightened the curriculum so that it is now clear that teaching should be conducted in such a way that boys and girls are not separated unless there are obvious educational reasons, of course. We have also long been inscribed in both school teams and curriculum that school should counteract traditional gender roles and ensure that boys and girls get the same opportunities and the same obligations in our school. Only a week ago, the government also sent out a proposal for a referral to make it easier to close free schools and municipal schools with large and recurring shortcomings. One problem we have seen, Madam President, is that schools which, year after year, show different kinds of deficiencies correct these shortcomings when they are ordered to do so, and the next time the School Inspectorate comes, there are new, major shortcomings. With this proposal, we will get to those situations in such a way that the School Inspectorate will also be able to take account of old sins, if there is anything relevant in that case. I think that will be of great importance to many of the schools where boys and girls have not been treated equally. I would really like to emphasise that this is an issue in which we have to work politically. Today, there are many political parties in the Swedish Parliament who insist that religious free schools should have a place in the Swedish school system and say no to these various proposals. I received a question from Mikael Strandman who again provides information about an individual study association, namely the study association Ibn Rushd. With the model that we work on in Sweden, it is authorities, or in this case the Folkbildningsrådet, that make decisions on how funds should be allocated. It then relies on laws adopted by the Riksdag and in some cases on various forms of regulatory letters and the like from the Government Office. In this case, it is the Folkbildningsrådet that makes the decision, and I cannot as a minister go in and comment on which study association is okay and which study association is not okay. I would like to refer once again to the fact that one can certainly ask such questions, but as the Swedish model works – and it has served us well – I, as a minister, am prevented from speaking on individual cases.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-173	Madam President, I would like You can discuss for hours what's going to go ahead. Should parents' culture and religion take precedence over Swedish democracy, our laws and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now also implemented in Swedish law? Unfortunately, it is very naive to believe that our democracy is for everyone and that equality also reaches out to the suburbs. It's actually distressing. It is also heavy to meet these young girls every day as politicians in the Swedish Parliament who really need an apology from all parties that have betrayed them. And to this day we are sitting here discussing whether these schools should receive billions – not to educate students according to the rules of democracy, but it is hatred and threats that are spreading. It is segregation and exclusion that lead to the situation that we have today with gang crime and mistrust of society. I do understand those kids. They don't have anyone with them, either parents, school or society. What should we expect of these young people when they are discriminated against? How are we to have faith in society when you pay a quarter of a billion to an organization that supports fascist organizations such as Millî Görüş in Turkey, Erdo中an's and the Brotherhood's right hand? You realize that in the Folkbildningsrådet, and yet you do nothing about it.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-177	Madam President, I would like This is an important debate. At the end of his speech, Amineh Kakabaveh mentioned how important it is that the starting point, whether it is about school activities, study associations or grants, is that Swedish law applies in Sweden. I would really like to emphasise that I agree 100%. As active politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that the Swedish law is structured in such a way that all people in Sweden have equal rights and equal opportunities. Here it hurts a little to listen to the description that Amineh Kakabaveh gives of young women and girls who feel betrayed by society. What is a bit ironic in this debate is that I do not see any better means of reaching vulnerable young women and girls in our suburbs, for example, than classical education. Olof Palme in his time called the formation of the people for the armaments of democracy. And in Swedish history, peoples' education has been an important means of ensuring that all people in Sweden get access to knowledge, get part of education, get part of democracy and get part of culture. My starting point and the government's starting point is, therefore, that the funds that we jointly set aside for the formation of people should go precisely to strengthening democracy and closing educational gaps. I note that much of the criticism that both Amineh Kakabaveh and Mikael Strandman have made during this very interesting interpellation debate is about an individual study association. As I said, I am prevented from speaking on individual decisions, but I and Amineh Kakabaveh are united in the view that the Swedish suburb needs a high-quality education.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-181	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me what conclusions I draw from the fact that more and more municipalities, with reference to Islamist connections, choose to problematise and withdraw financial support to study associations that continue to receive millions of SEK a year in state grants from the Folkbildningsrådet. Jonas Andersson has also asked me what measures I am prepared to take to stop Islamist-linked study associations from receiving state grants intended for adult education. Jonas Andersson has also asked a written question(2019/ 20:2114) which I answered on 16 September. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress that state resources should go exclusively to what they are intended for. I and the Council have made it clear that no public funds should go to anti-democratic environments. I would like to stress that the funds paid to study associations should contribute to the fulfilment of the State's objectives with State grants. According to law, the Folkbildningsrådet has been given the task of examining issues relating to the distribution of state aid to adult education. As a minister, I cannot comment on what decisions are taken by municipalities, but measures are now being taken to ensure that state aid for the formation of people is used as it is intended. The democracy inquiry has submitted a report which has been referred and which is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The report contains proposals for a clearer and uniform democracy condition for state grants to civil society organisations. The proposals also cover the regulations on state aid to adult education. In its decision on guidelines for the Council of People's Education in 2020, as regards the distribution of the state grant, the Council stated that, in the context of the accounting of the activities of 2020, it would provide an in-depth assessment of the so-called democratic objective, which states that the state grant would support activities that contribute to strengthening and developing democracy. At the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet's last board meeting on 9 September, decisions were made that will tighten the state grant conditions and strengthen the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet's office with a particular focus on developing control and follow-up work. Department of Education for a close dialogue with the Folkbildningsrådet on this work. Several measures are being taken to ensure that the state contribution to the formation of the population is used as intended. I'm following this work closely. Finally, I cannot stress enough that state contributions to the education of the people should go exclusively to activities that fulfil the aims of the state with the grant and strengthen our common democracy. Anything else is unacceptable.
i-BRwQpGKWNFbdTsTaNo1EJa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Ekström, for the answer to the interpellation! Last November, I and the Minister took part in an interpellation debate which also revolved around the study association Ibn Rushd and the state grants it receives. I think that there is reason to follow up that debate, not least because of what I point out in the interpellation – that a number of municipalities have started to pull their ears off and act against Ibn Rushd. This is the result of the new links that have emerged with Islamism. By now, it must be known by all who reasonably understood what Ibn Rushd is that the League has links with the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood. These links exist not only in individual cases through various people invited or interacted with, but at a structural level. It's formalized. The Islamic League of Sweden, which is a member organization of Ibn Rushd, is also part of the Federation of Islamic Organizations in Europ e, which in turn was founded as the branch of the Muslim Brotherhood in Europe in 1989. The links between the Islamic League and the Federation of Islamic Organizations in Europe are shown, among other things, by the statutes of the Islamic League, which provide for all assets of the League to be transferred to the Federation of Islamic Organisations in Europe in the event of the dissolution of the League. Ibn Rushd's statutes say something similar – that Ibn Rushd's assets will be transferred to the Islamic League in Sweden should Ibn Rushd be dissolved. It also says that it was the Islamic League in Sweden that took the initiative to form Ibn Rushd once, specifically in 2001. It is therefore a clear formalised organisational link between Ibn Rushd and the Muslim Brotherhood. Madam President, I would like Another connection among many that Ibn Rushd has with the Muslim Brotherhood is through the collaboration that the association has with the media house al-Jazira, which is Qatar-based. al-Jazira is a platform for the Muslim Brotherhood's ideas and also for the spiritual leader of the Brotherhood Yusuf al-Qaradawi personally. During the 2018 Muslim Family Days organised by Ibn Rushd, participants were offered a media training of staff from the Al-Jazira media house. The Middle East Forum thought tank carried out a map of al ‐ Jazira, which was presented in 2019. It states that the media house is a kind of mouthpiece for Qatar and the Muslim Brotherhood's variant of Islam. Madam President, I would like It is all up the walls that the contribution crane to the Islamicists of the Muslim Brotherhood has not been shut down long ago. The Swedish Democrats have long advocated that this should be done in the Riksdag. We have put forward motions to investigate the establishment of the Brotherhood in Sweden, but unfortunately this is not something that the government parties have supported. I can only regret that. From Anna Ekström's answer to my interpellation, one can get the picture that the government has understood the seriousness of this. At the same time, however, the authorities that the government is responsible for increased cooperation with Ibn Rushd during the past year. The State Media Council is such an authority. There is collaboration within the framework of a mission given by the government to strengthen media and information literacy among the population. It is part of the government's democracy strategy, and that work includes Ibn Rushd, among others. I think it is both frightening and dangerous that the government does not take the threat of Islamism more seriously than this. Instead, it is fattened by millions in state subsidies, and so it has deepened cooperation with Ibn Rushd through its authorities. How do the government and Anna Ekström really view the Muslim Brotherhood? Is it to be regarded as a legitimate interest organisation in Swedish politics?
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-200	Madam President, I would like In the basic social studies at school, we learn that the Swedish model is structured in such a way that it is authorities or in this case the Folkbildningsrådet that makes decisions on how to apply the law. As a minister, I am not allowed to comment on individual payment decisions, and I am quite convinced that at the moment I did so, a large number of Members of Parliament – perhaps even Mr Andersson – would line up to report me to the Parliament's Constitutional Committee. What I want to be very clear about, however, is that the funds that we jointly set aside for Swedish education should not go to activities that weaken democracy. For this reason, the government has set up an investigation that has been out for a referral and that we are now working with in the Government Office. We have ensured that the Folkbildningsrådet in its report to the Government on how to apply laws and regulations should give a special and in-depth account of how to apply the democratic condition. We are engaged in a close dialogue with the Folkbildningsrådet on this and other issues, and I note that only a few weeks ago the Folkbildningsrådet announced that the conditions should be tightened and control strengthened. I also note, Madam President, that in a debate article in one of our major newspapers yesterday, the Folkbildningsrådet announced that cooperation has been initiated with the police to ensure that contributions do not go to anything similar to organised crime. I think it is important that Swedish education is strong, also in the suburbs. But I think it is just as important that the funds that we, through the Education Council, set aside for this type of activity should go to what is the purpose of popular education: to strengthen democracy, close educational gaps and give people an opportunity to influence their life situation for the better but also to promote culture throughout our country. All over our country. In view of the discussion I had with Amineh Kakabaveh in the previous interpellation debate, it is also important to establish that it is Swedish law that applies here. Swedish law applies throughout Sweden and also within public education. But, Madam President, Swedish law also follows that it is authorities and independent organisations – in this case the Folkbildningsrådet – who are to make decisions, so no matter how much Jonas Andersson argues for a certain kind of decision within the framework of the Folkbildningsrådet's activities, I am prevented from speaking about it.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-206	Madam President, I would like In the interpellation response Anna Ekström highlights the report of the Democracy Condition Investigation, which is prepared by the Government Office. I think it is a good thing that the government is looking at this, and if it is the People's Education Council itself taking various measures to get to the problem as we see it is a good thing. The Swedish Democrats welcome more and more sharper proposals to put an end to Islamists and other extremists being able to receive state subsidies, as they are today. Unfortunately, the government has been very slow to act against the Islamists, who have managed to cement themselves as major contributors to Swedish civil society. This is not only through the state, but also through municipalities and regions. Madam President, I would like Just as I mention in the interpellation, a number of different municipalities have now begun to act against Ibn Rushd because of the Islamist connections that I am pointing out. The city of Gothenburg is such a municipality. Now in September they have chosen to withdraw the local contributions to Ibn Rushd. I think the reasons for this are so remarkable that they are worth lifting up in this House. Among other things, Ibn Rushd has chosen to cooperate with the Saudi-funded Bellevue Mosque, which has long been a known center for Islamism of the worst possible kind. It's IS. It's al-Shabab. Even the mediatly known IS terrorist Michael Skråmo has preached in that mosque. That the Bellevue Mosque is such is evident from reports from the Swedish Defence University, which among other things terror researcher Magnus Ranstorp is behind. A few months before the City of Gothenburg decided to withdraw the grants, Eskilstuna municipality did so, even there because of ideological doubts. Other municipalities around Sweden have also acted, such as Hässleholm and Skurup, and I believe that more will follow. Madam President, I would like Speaking of the Democracy Condition Investigation report mentioned here in the debate, I would like to quote from the Security Service's comments on this, which I find very interesting and important: The Swedish Security Service estimates that a relatively large number of organisations linked to extremist environments receive public funds through both state and municipal grants. Such organisations can contribute to increased radicalisation in Sweden and contribute to the growth of violent environments. It is therefore essential to create effective and legally secure tools to ensure that such organisations do not receive public funds and that contributing authorities are in a position to refuse or recover grants if it turns out that the requirements are not met. Public activities should not finance anti-democratic forces, thereby contributing to the survival or growth of extremist environments. ..................................................... In this connection, I would like to ask: does Anna Ekström Säpo share the description of the problem that a relatively large number of organisations linked to extremist environments receive public funds through government grants and that this can contribute to radicalisation and the growth of violent environments? If she does, why is the government acting so tough on the policy of peoples' education when the case of Ibn Rushd very well fits in with what Säpo describes?
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-214	Madam President, I would like I would venture to say that there is no worse enemy of anti-democratic forces than a well-functioning education. An open public education where people meet and within the framework of the study circle form themselves and each other has built Sweden very strongly through the decades. This is a model that has served us very well. However, in order for that model to work, contributions must go to what they are intended for. In this and the previous interpellation debate, I have presented a number of initiatives taken by the government, but also told of initiatives taken by the Folkbildningsrådet. It is absolutely crucial that people's education money goes to what they are going to do. There should be no doubt about it. Jonas Andersson reads aloud from Säpo's referral to the Democracy Condition Investigation. I note with interest that Mr Säpo is also in favour of the government working on the democracy condition. I would like to draw Jonas Andersson's attention to another consultation document, which unfortunately I cannot read from before; I do not have it in front of me. It is the referral that Säpo submitted on the proposal for a ban on the establishment of independent schools with a confessional focus that the government sent out for a referral. The Security Service stated very clearly there how important it is for this area to be regulated. I would like to put a counter-question to Jonas Andersson: Will Jonas Andersson and the Swedish Democrats listen equally to Mr Säpo's comments on the issue of religious free schools? It is an issue in which the Swedish Democrats have entirely sided with the religious school leaders.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-218	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone can doubt that the Swedish Democrats take the threat of Islamism seriously. Of course, what Säpo says is very important to us. That is also why I pointed out that I do not think that the government has taken this issue seriously at all, for example with regard to Ibn Rushd. But now is the time to turn off the grant crane to the Islamists. Islamists should not have a single crown of taxes. There are a lot of facts on the table about the links between Ibn Rushd and Islamism and the Muslim Brotherhood. Nevertheless, it is very slow for the government to put an end to the grant rain in the multimillion-dollar class over Ibn Rushd. If the Folkbildningsrådet is unable to make the necessary decisions, the Government and Anna Ekström must act. Otherwise, the million-dollar rain on the Islamists continues to a great extent to the detriment of Swedish society. Madam President, I would like I would argue that the problems of Islamism would not have been near as widespread as they are in Sweden today if it were not for this government and previous governments. They have pumped huge sums into various civil society organisations, such as Ibn Rushd, through the authorities. These organisations therefore live almost exclusively on tax revenue, so this is very much a politically created problem. So we would have been without a variety of Islamist organisations and organisations linked to Islamists if that had not happened. I believe that the government's public education policy has failed. The line of the Swedish democrats, on the other hand, is that Islamists should not have a single crown, and there are no exceptions to this. I would like to ask, in general terms: when so many Islamic connections arrive at an organisation that receives tens of millions of SEK in state subsidies a year and the responsible authority begins to examine this more closely, is it not time to freeze the payments until one understands what is happening and what one is doing? Does Anna Ekström not see a risk that Islamists will otherwise absorb millions of taxpayers' money?
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-223	Madam President, I would like I very much apologise, Madam President, for nagging, but once again: the Swedish model that we have for our administrative policy, which has served us well over the decades, forbids me to have views on how the authorities, in this case the Folkbildningsrådet, take decisions on the basis of law. So I cannot and cannot enter into discussions on individual beneficiaries. I note that the Folkbildningsrådet has just recently gone out and told us that it is tightening the conditions for funding and strengthening control. I note that only a few hours ago the Folkbildningsrådet told us that they are working with the police to ensure that the money does not go to the wrong things. This is important. Folkbildning is, as Olof Palme said, the weapons forge of democracy. Olof Palme also once said that Sweden is a study circle democracy. Sweden's prosperity has been built by people who have formed themselves together in study associations and in folk high schools. The money we give to student associations and folk high schools goes to an important purpose. They go to people's progress and to strengthen democracy, close educational gaps and give people the chance to influence their life situation. And they're going to strengthen the culture of our entire country. Not a penny should go to anti-democratic activities. I must thank you for the debate and assure Jonas Andersson and everyone else who listens that the work that the government is doing to strengthen peoples' education involves not only ensuring that there is good money for the fine activities that are carried out, but also ensuring that there are funds for control and follow-up so that the money does not go wrong.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-228	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked the Minister for Social Affairs what concrete measures the Minister intends to take to ensure that there will be considerably more specialist nurses in Swedish healthcare. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I agree with the interpellant that access to a sufficient number of healthcare professionals is essential for healthcare to be able to fulfil its mission. I also agree with the fact that we are facing major challenges in dealing with the healthcare needs that have arisen, while the coronapdemine continues. Strengthening health care staffing is therefore a priority for the government. The need for specialist nurses in healthcare is high and was expected to increase even before the pandemic in the coming years. Therefore, it is important that more nurses continue to train as specialist nurses. In 2015, the Government launched an extension of the training courses to nurse, midwife and specialist nurse. The expansion of specialist nursing education means that universities and higher education institutions have been provided with resources corresponding to an additional 600 full-time students each year. The Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have entered into an agreement to support the development of healthcare, with a special focus on the close care. The investment totals just over SEK 6.2 billion for 2020. In the framework of the agreement, SEK 2.9 billion has been allocated to strengthen the conditions for healthcare employees. Of these, 500 million will go to the regions to give more nurses the opportunity to study to a specialist nurse and combine studies with work. This can be done through training contracts and various forms of training benefits, such as partial or full pay during studies. It also allocates SEK 100 million to the regions to contribute to their efforts to develop skills and career models for specialist nurses with in-depth expertise in key areas. Meeting the challenges of healthcare with the supply of skills requires effective cooperation between regions, municipalities and higher education institutions. Dialogue with other actors is also needed. For universities and higher education institutions to be able to train more specialist nurses, there must, for example, be access to VFU sites in health care. It also requires that nurses who wish to continue their education are actually given leave of absence. These are issues that universities cannot solve themselves. On 1 January 2020, the Government established a National Council for Health Care Competences, which will, among other things, identify, coordinate and streamline the provision of competence in the area of health care personnel. The aim of the Council is to strengthen and formalise cooperation on skills provision in health care. I look forward to taking note of the Council's work and expect the work to have a positive impact on the provision of skills in health care.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Swedish high-specialized care is world-class. Results and capacity are high, and the interventions you can do for those very badly ill whose lives you can save have never been as successful as now. This is thanks to the research that has driven development, modern technology and new drugs. This would not have been possible without well-trained and experienced staff. Swedish intensive care has highly trained staff in all positions. We have specialist staff who handle materials and cleaning services. We have specially trained nurses and specially trained doctors. All personnel who staff Swedish health care are normally well educated, but I intend to concentrate on intensive care nurses. During the coronapandemine, our intensive care departments have changed and expanded their seats. Hospitals have closed planned surgery and instead moved resources to intensive care – an intensive care that last spring, when the situation was most acute, cared for 500 patients with covid-19 in Sweden. Madam President, I would like This is extraordinary and has been going on for a long time. All resources were concentrated, and both jobs and places of work had to be changed. Schedules had to be changed and vacations postponed on the future. I am very proud and actually a little moved by what Swedish intensive care can and has achieved. There is a work ethic and a flexibility that is fantastic. Nor have we heard that one would choose to refrain from doing one's duty in the job because of fear of getting infected. You've been working on it. All this that has created security for us in the midst of the storm, the existence of intensive care, is not self-evident. It's something we can lose. This requires a sufficient number of specially trained nurses to organise, lead and carry out the work with the most severely ill and who have the skills to assess risk, prioritise and care. Madam President, I would like Acquiring this competence takes time. The actual period of education is almost five years at university. In addition, experience as a general nurse is required prior to specialist training and years of experience as a qualified person in order to achieve such a high level of competence. It is a competence that many today have but a competence and capacity that we will not have access to in a few years' time if nothing radical is done. The corps of intensive care nurses has a high middle age. A large part of the experienced corps today will retire in the near future. Then we will not have access to their skills and experience in healthcare. Nor will we have access to them as mentors and trainers of new specialist nurses. The specialist nurses need not only a high academic competence of their trainers in the theoretical part; they also need a high level of practical competence of their trainers in the practical part of the training. Only through this has it been possible to get perhaps the best intensive care in the world – something we should be very proud of.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-244	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me how we get enough specialist nurses in the care, and that is what I think we should have this conversation about. The specialist nursing programme has eleven permanent specializations, and there is an open-minded education that the universities can decide for themselves based on the needs of the care. Fundamentally, the government is very clear about – and I would also like to make this clear in this debate – that enough trained staff in healthcare is one of the most important prerequisites for us to continue to have world-class welfare. And I am pleased to see Lotta Olsson's commitment to this issue and to the provision of healthcare skills. I'll tell you something about the coronap adem. It is clear that it has been and still is a challenge for our whole society. The focus has been on health care personnel. It has worked hard to help those affected while maintaining regular care. It has been and is still extremely tough and challenging. What I can see from my perspective when it comes to the supply of skills is that a positive effect that we can see during this pandemic is that there are more people who have chosen to apply for our healthcare trainings than before. For example, there is a large increase in the nursing program – 34% more people apply for the nursing programme. And it's very good in the tracks of the pandemic that even more people see what an extremely important job it is and that more people go there, because if we train more nurses we can in the next step also train more specialist nurses. Responsibility for the supply of competence is shared between the higher education institutions and the health professionals. As I said, it requires very effective cooperation between regions, municipalities and other actors. From the government we have contributed funds and reached an agreement with SKR to develop the organization of work, increase staffing, develop working methods and operational support. All of this helps to attract, maintain and develop healthcare professionals. We have also contributed money so that the regions can give more nurses the opportunity to receive paid specialist training. Both Lotta and I are from Region Örebro County, an S-led one, who has been ahead of this and who introduced this 12 – 15 years ago. Now the rest of the country has come along, and that is very good. This initiative has meant an increase in the number of individuals who have studied as a specialist nurse or midwife with some kind of replacement. We continue this work to increase the attractiveness of becoming a specialist nurse. For better development and career opportunities, the Government also proposes a continued commitment to career services of SEK 100 million annually from 2020. We really take the supply of skills very seriously. But we realize that there are challenges that we need to be many in helping to solve. For this reason, we have also established the Council for Health Care Competences. It has a very important role to play in making the overall assessment of healthcare needs that decision-makers at local, regional and national level need to make decisions on these issues. It is important that we have enough trained nurses and specialist nurses in Swedish healthcare.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-253	Madam President, I would like In answer to my question, Minister Ernkrans has reported the resources that are being invested in the form of money – almost. But who is responsible for all of this coming into place? Let me take an example also from Örebro, because we both come from there, as I said. There, the training has been closed down to intensive care nurse because there were not enough applicants with sufficient academic skills. Then the question is: Can a university decide for itself whether or not to close down an education, if the government is investing a great deal of money? Whose responsibility is that? Do not our universities have any responsibility for organising education, but can they simply close it? This is an education for which universities are paid well. The training places are some of the most expensive courses at universities. But there are relatively few places. There is therefore not a lot of money in this way, so it does not affect so much a university's finances if you close down that type of education. There is no great financial gain for a university to make in carrying out this education. If you were to translate this approach into the highly specialised care, you could say this: Excuse me, but your diagnosis is not so common, so we do not accept you. Rajant, but where's the social responsibility? Health care alone cannot take social responsibility unless our universities and our government push on these issues. Madam President, I would like It is reprehensible that our universities do not have a social responsibility to train enough people. Here you can only steer from ministerial level through regulatory letters to our universities. There is no other coordination at present, and our regions do not control training places. That is why the Government's answer to my question, as I see it, is weak. If this is investigated for a long time, it may be too late. Many in a competent profession will soon retire and leave care, and then we will not be able to deal with a pandemic if there is a new wave. The number of nurses training as specialist nurses must increase rapidly and radically, otherwise we must expect that the most severely ill in the future will not be able to receive the highly specialised care we have today. Are we prepared for this? Are we prepared to lose loved ones who could have been saved if we had not had today's educational problems? No, both the Government and our universities would need to take a long course in Swedish intensive care and learn how they solve their assignments – assignments they have got the Swedish people's trust to take care of and which they, just as intensive care should take care of all the way into the tile and not drag on long bench with devastating consequences. Consider that it might be your mother, husband, or child who do not receive the best care when they need it.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-262	Madam President, I would like I believe that the provision of health care skills, respect for all health professionals and respect for the fact that we are a society in which we need to be helped to cope, not least, with the provision of health services, on which the Coronapandemine has put a further focus, requires a completely different leadership from the populism that the Moderates have just expressed in their speech. I stand for this being a shared responsibility between health professionals, universities and politicians. Many actors need to gather to cope with healthcare skills provision. We know this from the outset, and it is further underlined under the coronapandemy. The government has taken steps to strengthen the economy and make it possible to continue training specialist nurses. We have set up a care competence council and increased the number of full-time training places by 600. Since many study part-time, this means more than 600 students. These are important efforts, but we need to make further efforts to cope with the provision of healthcare skills. This requires leadership that bears the co-operation and responsibility of different actors. It requires more leadership and collaboration and much less no-all-populism. Let me remind you that the Moderates are in charge in 13 of the country's regions, and in 9 of them the Moderates hold the presidency. With regard to the ability of healthcare to recruit and retain skilled nurses and specialist nurses, the employer has a great responsibility to ensure that they want to remain in the profession and receive further training. It is about responsibility in relation to competence, good work environment, wage development and stimulating tasks. The regions, where, as I said, the Moderates are in charge of 13 and have the presidency in 9, play an important role in ensuring that more people want to remain in the profession and further educate themselves. We need leadership that sees that it is about collaboration between many different parties in order for us to get the very best out and get as many as possible to both train as nurses and have the opportunity to further train as specialist nurses. Needs exist. Now we need to get together, take the leadership and solve this, and I am prepared to take this leadership.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-270	Madam President, I would like Matilda Ernkrans calls it populism. I have already raised this problem with the Minister for Social Affairs in this speaker's chair. Of course, there are people who leave their profession too early, but what I'm talking about has been in the pipeline for a long time. The unions are old, and many will soon retire. The skills that exist and that during the pandemic it has been possible to switch up are based on the staff's long experience. It does not matter how much resources Matilda Ernkrans's and her Social Democratic Government will give if it does not de facto allow enough people to be educated now. Although the regions create a good working environment and people are still there, this possibility will not be available later because the mentors and the skills are retiring. It is sad that it should be called populism when I point out a problem that will have enormous consequences. Yes, there are consequences during a pandemic. But both you and I may need major operations in the future, and then it makes a big difference whether there are highly skilled staff who can receive us or not. This is not about rapid training, but it takes a long time. Long ago, I worked in intensive care myself and talked with an Italian doctor, and he described how amazing operations could be done in Italy at that time. But then if there was no one to take care of these patients, there was no good result. All I want is a red flag because the situation is urgent. It's not populism.
i-2cad9b54e65f5196-276	Madam President, I would like This commitment has been in place for a long time and, as the honourable Member pointed out, it takes time to train nurses and specialist nurses. Then it was well too well that the Social Democraticly led government that took office in 2014 already in 2015 started to expand the training courses to nurse, midwife and specialist nurse. It is probably too well now that 34 percent more people are applying for the nursing programme that we have expanded the number of places of education at our universities so that we can assume 10 percent more to the university this autumn. It is too well that we have focused the expansion on lack of vocational training. It is too well that the S-led government produced money so that more than just those in Region Örebro County had the opportunity to further educate themselves to a specialist nurse. It has also been shown that since this came into place at national level, more people are trained as a specialist nurse. More than two years ago, 550 more people have studied further to a specialist nurse and midwife. I hope that the government, parliament, regions and municipalities, including moderate-led ones, can continue constructive cooperation for the provision of skills in healthcare. I welcome the Moderates in this work.
