i-3b5a611a48941ba3-19	Madam President, I would like Then it is time for us in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture to debate our report MJU8 on rural policy. The report addresses movements from autumn's general period of exercise, including the conditions for agriculture and other primary producers and horse entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like Our preparedness is good," said Per Albin Hansson about Sweden's food supply during the Second World War. Much water, however, has run under the bridges since then, and for the vast majority of Swedes food supply is probably something that you think of very rarely, if you do it at all. In recent times, however, the issue has received increasing attention. During the spring, the bacon shelves were gaping empty, and in connection with the rise of the Corona virus, some citizens have started hoarding food to prepare for possible isolation. Although, of course, I regret the reason, it is about time that the issue of our emergency preparedness and food security came up on the agenda. Today, Sweden is more than self-sufficient on only three products: sugar, wheat flour and carrots. For eggs, we're at 95%. If the boundaries are closed, we have carrot cake in different varieties to look forward to on the menu. For beef, the volume of supply is about 55 per cent, for pig and bird around 70 per cent and for tomatoes just over 10 per cent. Food production itself would also face huge challenges if changes in the world were to reduce inputs. Swedish food production is currently dependent on imported inputs in the form of, for example, protein, plant nutrients and diesel. This makes Swedish agriculture very vulnerable at a stop to the influx of necessary inputs for agriculture. Today, therefore, Swedish food security requires the world to be safe and secure. In the negotiations on the objectives of a Swedish food strategy, the Center Party had two main priorities to include: both sharp wordings on strengthening competitiveness and targets on reducing vulnerability in the food chain. For me, these two are very clearly connected. Without competitive farmers and food producers, we will not be able to reduce our vulnerability in the food chain either. But in a changing environment where both uncertain supply of imported inputs and climate change hang over us, efforts are also needed to reduce vulnerability in order for Swedish agriculture to be viable and competitive in the long term. The 2018 drought and its subsequent effects showed this very clearly. When the Center Party is now included in the January agreement, which in various ways affects the conditions for Swedish agriculture and the vulnerability of the food chain, I would like to mention a couple of measures that have been made and some that the Center Party is still pushing for. Let me start with the issue of vulnerability. In the regulatory letters negotiated by the Center Party, vulnerability has taken on an important role. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has been tasked with investigating emergency and sales stocks, identifying strategic goods for Swedish food supply, analysing dependence and vulnerabilities in food supply and interacting with other actors for food security. A few weeks ago, within the framework of the January agreement, a study was set up on fossil-free agriculture, which was tasked with looking at how dependence on imported fossil inputs can be reduced, how domestic production of fossil-free fuels can increase and how the transition to fossil-free agriculture can take place in a way that protects and strengthens Swedish agriculture's competitiveness. Increasing exports is another way to increase Swedish food production and reduce vulnerability, where the Center Party has pushed for assignments and investments in more food plataches in strategic markets, more country approvals and export efforts for small and medium-sized enterprises. Madam President, I would like Accompanying measures to reduce vulnerability goes hand in hand with measures to strengthen competitiveness and increase food production. Since January 2019, Swedish farmers have received over 1 billion in drought support to strengthen liquidity. The refund of diesel has been increased by 50 øre compared to 2018, and in autumn 2019 the refund increased another 50 øre. The employer's contribution for young and new employees has been reduced. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been tasked with developing a national management plan for wild boars, and money has been allocated in 2020 to increase the sales of wild boar meat, thereby increasing the displacement of wild boars and reducing the damage. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has been commissioned to start a simplification work in order to achieve a noticeable positive change in the entrepreneur's everyday life. The work has also been instructed to have the company perspective in focus when drawing up rules and to review regulations on animal husbandry in order to make them more targeted and flexible. In the initiatives for the implementation of the food strategy in 2020 of a quarter of a billion that were presented before Christmas, the Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked, among other things, with identifying rules that impair competitiveness and proposing measures. A work to introduce a digital system for the farmer to have fewer time-consuming and administratively burdensome government contacts, what we in the Center Party call A way in, has been launched. But that's not enough. Permit processes for stable construction need to be speeded up. The availability of effective plant protection products needs to be ensured, not least in the horticulture sector. Food production and the competitiveness of agriculture must have a greater impact on the exemption from biotope protection, for example in the case of stone walls. Rules on water in the agricultural landscape need to be adapted to a changing climate, and the protection of farmers needs to be strengthened in order to avoid our important producers living with animal rights-related threats and hatred. More measures are needed to overcome game damage, not least from wild boars where efforts to increase the marketing of wild boar meat must continue. There is no quick fix to achieve the objectives of the food strategy, but the government must do its utmost to implement measures that can really lead to noticeable improvements at farm level. A new agricultural policy is currently being negotiated. We can already see that there are delays, and the principle of the same rules, but new money is a reasonable principle that the Center Party supports. Both in terms of the regulatory framework at EU level and Sweden's implementation of the same, it is absolutely crucial that Swedish farmers' competitiveness is in focus, but also that environmental and climate measures are prioritised so that Swedish farmers can get paid for the important sustainability work they actually do. The Swedish will to reduce the EU budget must not go beyond the ability of Swedish farmers to continue to produce food in a competitive and sustainable way. It is also important that the breakdown that has been going on in the past period where a large number of farmers have had to wait for delayed support should not be repeated. If the State fails to meet its commitment, it is reasonable to look at the possibility of paying interest for delayed aid. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention another important industry for Sweden and rural areas, namely the horse industry. According to the Swedish horse industry's National Foundation, the Swedish horse industry creates more than SEK 30 billion in direct turnover, and if you include turnover from industries that depend on the horse, you land a total of 72 billion. In employment, it can be translated into 38 000 full-year services that work with everything from trotting and breeding to riding schools and horse tourism, but also feed, equipment, buildings, courtkeepers and veterinarians. Horse entrepreneurship is an important part of Swedish business, but we need to do more to facilitate this industry. If you build a kostall on a farm property, you don't need a building permit, but if you build a riding house you need a building permit. Recently, the investigation that the Center Party has been pushing for to look at simplifications for precisely activities on agricultural properties, which includes not least the horse industry. In other areas, however, we see that the horse is not equated with other farm animals, and there we see a need to continue working to ensure that the horse industry is more equated with other agricultural industries. To further capture the potential of the horse industry, we want the government to develop a strategy for the future of the horse industry. The industry itself has put forward proposals for both strategy and action plan, and now the policy needs to deliver its part. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but in order to save time at the vote, I only call for reservation 12.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-39	Madam President, I would like In order for me to remember to do so, which I do not always do, I would first like to ask for the approval of reservation No 4. Rural policy is the subject of this debate. Today, it may feel a bit in the shadow of everything that is happening around us right now, especially the Corona virus. But I would like to say that the situation with the Corona virus has also highlighted the importance of food production and the importance of the degree of self-sufficiency and preparedness – that we actually have food to feed our Swedish citizens with. Now let's not think it's getting worse than it is in the situation we're in now, but we can imagine what would happen if the situation gets very much worse and the boundaries may suddenly be closed for some reason at this point. Depending on where we are during the year, it can have an enormous impact on Swedish food production both in terms of inputs such as plant nutrients and plant protection, but also seeds. Suddenly we may not be able to start a new growing year in Sweden. These are extremely serious and important issues. It is part of the food strategy, but we have still not solved this problem. What we also see is that, with regard to our food strategy objectives, where we are going to increase production, increase exports and increase self-sufficiency, things are currently going in the wrong direction in relation to all these things in the framework. There are ten years left until we achieve the objectives of the food strategy. And after the ten years, if we continue as we do today, Madam President, we have half as many dairy farms as we have today. Half as many dairy farms will then produce more than they do today. We also know that dairy farms are the engine of Swedish agriculture. Animal production at all is the engine in Swedish agriculture. We have quite a lot of challenges. This government is usually happy to take credit for actually implementing the food strategy, although there was broad consensus on it and in particular on the major goals. But, unfortunately, this is more and more like a shelf heater. What is actually to be delivered from this food strategy? As I said, production is going down. We see that the crisis situation we have here now leads us to get empty shelves in the shops. How does the government intend to act? One important thing in the future, Madam President, is when we are going to stick through the new CAP according to the Swedish model. It is of course extremely important that we can land it in a good way for Sweden that can strengthen our competitiveness and where we can reduce regulatory and bureaucracy. We have said this before when we have negotiated the CAP, and unfortunately it is just the opposite. Therefore, I think it is particularly important this time that we can really gather our strengths across the parties and land in that it becomes a CAP that really benefits Swedish agriculture. Madam President, I would like I see other concerns about food production, which is the engine of rural development when we talk about rural policy. All the goals we have set are good, but in different ways and from different directions we restrict and reject the possibility of achieving them. At the latest in the last few weeks, signals have been received from the Swedish Food Administration, which is greatly increasing its costs to producers and the food industry. This is a sharp increase, especially for smaller slaughterhouses which are heavily charged. That is exactly the way that, instead of choosing to continue and invest in production, in this case abattoir operations, they may be closing down. We may thus reduce the number of slaughterhouses in Sweden again. The primary producers will then end up in the hands of the large slaughterhouses, and they are the ones who set the prices. Then we come from much of the local production, which is actually the way we want to increase production. Another issue that we often highlight in this speaker's chair and which we still see as a major threat is the issue of predators. The questions about grazing animals and predators go hand in hand all the time. We receive signals all the time from sheep producers in particular who choose to cut back or completely stop their production because they think that predatory pressure is too high and the problem too great. Another question is, as one of my colleagues, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson from the Christian Democrats, has raised the last week and really since late autumn, the investigation into animal activism that our Minister of Justice promised a year ago yesterday or whether it was today. It hasn't happened. The productions in the country look very depressed by this and find it remarkable that we do not place any more emphasis on this. Because this is also something that makes producers choose to close down. You are threatened, you receive harassment and you are exposed to damage because you are carrying out an activity that we in here have statutory that it is perfectly okay to do and which, with our food strategy, we have said is an important thing to do. Instead, the activists are allowed to ravage freely, simply. I have received signals from south-eastern Sweden about farmers who have received letters from insurance companies and others where they are warned that they believe that a drive is underway. The announcement is: Take extra care of your animal stalls and farms. Check for gates and doors. We shouldn't have to have it this way. It must come up with sharp and concrete proposals, and the Minister of Justice must ensure that this is done now. This investigation is becoming urgent; it needs to be added. We see, as I said, that milk production is going badly. The amount of weighed milk has decreased in Sweden. I believe that we are the only EU country where the amount of milk weighed is falling. Last year 180 dairy farms returned to Sweden. The barn door was closed for the last time. This means something else too, Madam President. This means that we have the minimum number of cattle in Sweden that we have measured at some point. Then the next question comes: What happens to our natural pastures? How can we care for them if the amount of animals to graze on these land is greatly reduced? That is another thing that we need to deal with within the framework of the food strategy. However, it is not possible to wait until 2030 to deal with this and hope that the food strategy will then have achieved these objectives. We need to have come up with sharp proposals right now. I am the first to say that we need long-term and wise ideas for a long-term and good food strategy. But we can't have it so that 180 farms a year are booming again now. It has huge consequences. That is why I think it is a good thing when the chairman of the committee highlights the importance of horses in the agricultural landscape as well, and that even horse entrepreneurs and horse production can be an important part of this when other of our farmed animals fall in number, which is a development that I hope we will be able to reverse. But the horses are an important part of being able to manage our natural pastures. Today, horsemen are facing some problems that we should be able to deal with in this House so that they can be perceived as ordinary agricultural entrepreneurs and that we can come up with good and concrete proposals for small businesses. To round this off, Madam President, I would like to say that we have taken many good decisions in this House as to what we want and where we are going. But now it is high time, with the government in the front seat, to actually deliver this policy. Otherwise, the Swedish food strategy becomes a shelf heater. I don't think any of us here today want it to be that way.
i-AMAZVbKsQo72vi8ezaEgx	Madam President, I would like I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 5 on competitiveness and regulatory simplification. Although today's debate is called rural policy debate, it really only concerns the agricultural area. It will therefore be centred around the proposals from the general period of exercise on agriculture. Indeed, agriculture and, not least, agriculture are crucial to a vibrant countryside with self-confidence. Moreover, the requests made today are limited to those that have been new since last year, so anyone who expects a full and wide-ranging rural debate may be disappointed. However, as I said, agriculture is central to rural areas, which is why we are now going to discuss it. As a matter of urgency, I shall remind you of three crucial issues that need to be resolved quickly. Firstly, what would it look like if I stood here and did not talk about the profitability of agriculture? I say as I have said many times before: with good and long-term profitability, so much more possible. This applies to investments in production and also investments in environmental measures, for example in technologies that reduce nutrient leakage to watercourses. So much more becomes impossible if profitability does not exist. In our budget we had at least six items that directly increase the profitability of agriculture and at least three items that indirectly increase profitability in the long term. Secondly, criminal animal rights activists are ravaging, threatening and hating. In some cases, they even set fires and abuse. This is organized. My party colleague Runar Filper has meritably requested that the government oblige the National Police Board to assume a national overall responsibility for mapping, combating and prosecuting these activists. However, the instructions for police work have not changed in this regard. The government promised a year ago an investigation into the possibility of stopping demonstrations in farmers, but it has not been added. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson in the Christian Democrats has urged and meritoriously asked for it to be added. How long will the government wait? Thirdly, wild boar populations and damage to fields and crops must be significantly reduced, and this must be done before we get African swine fever to Sweden. These are three crucial issues that need to be resolved soon. Madam President, I would like Another issue that needs to be resolved and on which I will devote the rest of my speech is heavy, complicated regulations and legal uncertainty in the application of the rules. Our previous proposals for regulatory simplification remain. Together with this year's new proposal, we have 17 proposals that will simplify or improve the rules for agriculture in one way or another. It is important that the common agricultural rules within the EU that are now being negotiated are adapted to Swedish conditions and become sufficiently flexible and that as much as possible can be determined at national level. Furthermore, implementation must be realistic and made as simple as possible. We also want all the authorities negotiating agricultural regulations at EU level to be instructed very early in the process to assess the positive and negative consequences of the new rules for Swedish agriculture and to promote good competitive conditions for Swedish agriculture. Some of our regulatory improvement proposals are about improving and aligning the administration's case management and supervision. For example, we want one or two of the county boards' environmental review delegations to specialise in agricultural matters, have special expertise in the field and decide on agricultural matters. Through a deep understanding of the conditions of the agricultural industry, the reform will ensure that the requirements imposed on agriculture are appropriate, effective and proportionate to what the legislation wants to achieve so that the requirements do not become unreasonable in relation to what it is supposed to protect. Finally, I will focus on our entirely new proposal for regulatory simplification in reservation 5, which I hope will be supported by this afternoon's vote. We propose a new type of simplification task to the managing authorities operating in the agricultural sector in a broad sense. Former blue and red governments have sincerely tried to simplify regulations in the agricultural sector, but the result has unfortunately been poor. I've seen this myself up close. The rules have an underlying purpose and are designed quite effectively when they are drawn up. But the simplifications that can be made without changing the purpose will be very limited. However, we believe that objectives may also need to be reconsidered at times. We therefore want the authorities to propose an end to regulation at national or EU level every year. It may be a single aspect or a whole piece of legislation. They will examine whether the underlying objectives that have led to regulation are timely and urgent enough. They will analyse the impact of the current rules and the abolition of regulation. The impact shall be assessed both for agriculture and for all other values that may be affected. This solid basis can then be used by the government and parliament to possibly implement the proposals. We believe that agricultural operators should be able to propose to the authorities what rules and objectives should be reviewed this year. This will result in an orderly, recurrent process that examines the objectives of existing legislation, and the issue is constantly in focus. The cumulative effects of rules stacked on each other are detected. Even outdated regulations, unnecessarily tough regulations and rules that do not harmonise with each other are detected in a problem-solving context, where the competitiveness of agriculture is central. We believe that legislation in this way will be more balanced and more appropriate. As I said, I hope for support in this House for reservation 5. You can change your mind when you come to the Chamber. We ourselves have done so once this parliamentary term. It was when we realized that the Christian Democrats' proposal was better than we thought at first. The hand on the heart, it is difficult to fully understand suggestions from other parties based solely on exercise text. Our exercise text is also rather short.
i-YPsNhpd6hc5MqfzNRK7ucq	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2. Although animal consumption has a major impact on climate, environment, animals and public health, national policy decisions are lacking to reduce consumption in a more sustainable direction. The Left Party believes that there are major social gains in promoting a reduction in meat consumption and that political decisions are needed to support a more plant-based diet and reduced consumption of animal products. This is important because meat consumption in the world as well as in Sweden has increased sharply in recent decades. Animal production currently accounts for about 15% of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions. Swedish meat consumption, excluding other animal species such as milk and cheese, causes a climate impact of approximately 9 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report Keep only k onsumtion patterns. In 2018, Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions within the country were 53.1 million tonnes. Regardless of how and where the meat is produced, consumption is associated with a significant impact on the climate. However, beef production generates much more climate impact than pork and chicken, for example. The high greenhouse gas emissions from meat production are mainly due to the fact that large areas of land are required to produce feed. According to a report by the United Nations FAO, the livestock sector can also be one of the main causes of biodiversity loss, as it exploits 30% of the earth's land area and 70% of all agricultural land in the world. In addition, the livestock sector is one of the main causes of the destruction of tropical forests. Rain forest is also destroyed for the cultivation of animal feed which is then exported to, for example, EU meat production. This applies not least to soya production. Moreover, meat production in the world consumes large quantities of fresh water. Although it varies between different meats, many times more fresh water is required to produce one kilogram of meat compared to vegetable crops. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) published last August's Climate Change and Land report. The report notes that agriculture and forestry threaten both climate objectives and biodiversity. It is not enough to resolve the climate crisis simply by reducing CO2 emissions from cars, aircraft and industries. According to the report, a global agricultural revolution and a change in diet are required, including by reducing food waste and eating less meat, in order to save the planet and avoid famines. Consumption of healthy and sustainable diets based on coarser cereals, legumes, vegetables, nuts and seeds creates enormous opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, according to the report authors. Within the EU, multi-billion amounts of subsidies are paid to the animal industry. It is unreasonable for such large sums of our common funds to be used to subsidise an industry with such a large climate and environmental impact. In addition, the EU is providing hundreds of millions of SEK in support of the marketing of various animal products in order to increase their sales. Sweden should act for a deadline within the EU when environmentally harmful subsidies that support the meat and dairy industry should be phased out.
i-GqxKu6f9SUXwtZCM9KN9mC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for your speech. The thing that feels a little bit like things get mixed up. This speech compares Swedish food production with international food production in every way and on every side. I think it's gonna be a little weird. We need to land and clarify some things. For example, Swedish beef production does need a lot of grassland, but of Sweden's 2.6 million hectares of arable land, almost nothing but grass can grow on about 1 million of them. This grass is absolutely excellent to drive through our cattle. In addition, only these grazing mules can handle our natural pastures. They represent the vast majority of biodiversity in Sweden. This is the important part of biodiversity, and it is declining in Sweden today. It is therefore strange when domestic production is constantly mixed with international production. I know that there are huge problems in food production, especially livestock production, around the world. This applies, for example, to feedlot and the type of final breeding that exists in South America and also to some extent in North America. I think it is extremely important that we are constantly balanced and talk about Swedish production separately and the foreign production separately. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member, Madam President, whether she is aware of the great difference in production. For example, Swedish beef production produces 70 percent less climate gas emissions in an international comparison.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John, for the question! When I drew my figures, perhaps I was talking above all about consumption, which is increasing. We know that the increase applies to both domestic and imported meat. We in the Left Party are therefore talking a lot about increasing local production as well as the local consumption of what is produced in Sweden. Yes, there is a difference between production in Sweden and Brazil. That's why we all usually talk about eating what is Swedish produced. I am the first to say that we can make certain restrictions on the trade agreements that we have with countries around the world – preferably for me. But you're not so keen on that. Maybe it all depends on where you put the problem picture. I think there are more problems with the policy we are pursuing today and with the system we have. We paint ourselves in trade agreements that make it very difficult for us to set up favourable rules of conduct for Swedish production.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-99	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are other problems as well. For example, vegetarian diet production around the world is very much based on water. In many of the production sites there is no water in the amount that should be available. For example, we see how large irrigation ponds are emptied in California. There is no longer any water left. In southern Spain, so much groundwater has been raised that salt water from the sea penetrates the groundwater depots due to vegetable production. So there are problems in both vegetarian and animal production. But we must keep in mind that animal production is the engine of Swedish agriculture. We should therefore not stand here and talk down Swedish animal production by confusing it with the foreign one. We also know that the soil soils in Sweden need to be raised. You can do that in many different ways. One of those often used to raise the soil content is by using animal manure. With the level we currently have on animal production in Sweden, we could increase the soil content much without it having a negative effect on the climate. If we raise the soil soils' soils, we also increase the binding of carbon dioxide. Once again, Madam President, it is extremely important that we try to distinguish the different production models that exist around the world. We must constantly try to protect the Swedish. As far as free trade agreements are concerned, we have actually seen what consumers themselves opt out of. After all, imports of foreign beef have decreased. Instead, the problem is that we have a shortage of domestic beef, because production is falling. It is therefore extremely important to keep the two separate. I would therefore like to have another clarification from the honourable Member.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-103	Madam President, I would like It is not about, as you say, talking down Swedish production. There is nothing in our policy that says that we would not want to increase Swedish agriculture. We, too, are working for it. However, I would like to say, as was done in the article published by the LRF not so long ago, that there is a future for Swedish agriculture also for the plant-based, which is very positive. For Swedish agriculture, there is every opportunity here to be an active part of the transition that we must make. It is about the meat we eat being more locally produced. But we also need to raise the proportion of plant-based diets. Both of these things need to happen, but one need not be a threat to the other. I hope that was clear enough.
i-6CNrweqyxFoC7UFzHX8XgD	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 7. It has soon been three years since we in Parliament decided on a food strategy. Many farmers said: Finally! Now something really good is going on. The politicians are in agreement. Things are happening. The same farmers who said this then now say: wait, it is almost three years. Yet we have not noticed anything. We notice absolutely nothing at farm level. I can understand the question. A food strategy that becomes just a paper product does not help any farmer. It is at farm level that the difference must become real. Why is it so slow? Madam President, I would like According to the Food Strategy, agricultural profitability will increase, competitiveness will be strengthened and food self-sufficiency will increase. So, how's it going? Yes, on all three points it has deteriorated, not improved. Thus, out of three possible, it is not approved on all three. Here, of course, the government has a great responsibility to take political action. You cannot rely on the old cliche, it happens later in the term of office. What happens now? What proposals does the government have? When will the powerful agricultural package, which we are all waiting for so much? Madam President, I would like I have highlighted in this House an example which I think the government should throw itself over, namely that we in Sweden have an environmental code which states that agriculture is an environmentally dangerous activity. I can say with my hand on my heart: I do not know of any other country in the world where food production is classified as environmentally dangerous. We can lift our eyes and look at our neighboring countries. In Finland, food production is crucial for self-sufficiency – my friends – at least 80 per cent. In Norway, the country's food production is crucial for living rural areas and for self-sufficiency. In Denmark, food production is crucial for the country's economy. In Sweden, Madam President, food production is an environmentally dangerous activity. How many of us in here thought when we had breakfast this morning: Wow, now I eat something produced by Swedish agriculture! It's dangerous to the environment! No one, I don't think. Does this not show how crazy it is and that there must now be a change in the environmental code once and for all? Madam President, I would like The rule jungle in agriculture is another issue that needs to be changed. Rule-simplifications need to be put in place. The Christian Democrats believe that there must be a coherent action plan with clear and measurable targets for reducing the regulatory burden. In order to ensure that the plan is followed, the Government should, we believe, report regularly to the Riksdag how the work is progressing. We see this as an obvious measure, as regulatory simplification is a cornerstone of the adopted food strategy. Madam President, I would like That our self-sufficiency, as many of my friends have talked about here before, is now below 50 percent, of course, many of us think is very serious. We can take Finland as an example again. Finland can provide food for its inhabitants for at least six months. In Sweden, we can handle no more than seven to twelve days. There's a difference. In Stockholm, where we are now, it takes only a few days – then the shelves gap empty in the grocery store. It is therefore incredibly important that food production does not decrease but, on the contrary, increases. It's got to increase. Of course, quickfix is not possible – I understand that too. But now it's just the other way. Milk farm after dairy farm is closed down. Every week about five dairy farmers close down their production. Sweden is the only EU country where weighted milk is reduced. In other countries it is increasing. With us it is decreasing. Why? Because profitability is too poor and competitiveness is constantly deteriorating. There are many who have raised various threats. I would like to agree with the threat picture that exists. When you're out among farmers, you notice a fear. This applies, of course, in part to what I said about profitability and competitiveness being too poor, but also to other things. There are animal rights activists who threaten children of dairy farmers. Why? Because they're dairy farmers. Time and again we notice this. We must take action against this. As someone was aware, it is excellent that my good colleague Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has brought this up with the government. Why isn't anything happening? We hope that the government will soon come up with an answer to how it intends to deal with this. Wild boar is another issue that is incredibly serious. They destroy Swedish agriculture. We're talking damage for about 1.5 billion. But there are also other threats, such as the wolf, raised by Mr Widegren. In various parts of our country, where sheep or calves were used to be in the pastures, you are no longer afraid, but you are laying down. It is clear that we wish with all our heart that this government will soon take steps to make Swedish agriculture better and more profitable.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-124	Madam President, I would like This debate shows many different perspectives, but it is still a rather dystopian debate. It may also be important to recall what the industries themselves see. When I read the Agriculture Barometer 2019 in the run-up to this debate, I could see that there was still a great deal of hope for a bright future. Half of them experienced good profitability. Pigs, beef and milk producers saw improved profitability. Plant-growing producers noted a negative, but a great many suggested optimism. In these times, when we are struggling with questions of corona, climate change and much more, it is also important to highlight the positive. Madam President, I would like Climate change leads to extreme weather and natural disasters, both in Sweden and in the world. A focus on effective targeted environmental and climate action is needed to achieve the ambitious objectives, both in Sweden and within the EU. In a performance-oriented policy, Member States need to be able to design environmental measures that address regional and local challenges in order to meet common climate and environmental objectives. The CAP must increase environmental and climate ambitions. We from the Liberals always point that out. There is a need for a continued market orientation of the CAP and an increased ambition for the environment and climate. In order to have an efficient agriculture in the EU that helps to achieve future climate goals while providing for a growing population globally, market-disrupting rules need to be reviewed. The starting point for the continued focus of the reform of agricultural policy should be that part of the support should be focused on the environment, climate, development, ecosystem services, landscape management, environmental protection and biodiversity. Madam President, I would like On this basis, I would also like to mention something about another issue which is important for the Liberals and which has a strong climate bearing, namely what is described in the report on the wetlands. The Parliament has decided on 16 environmental quality objectives that specify the state to be achieved in a generational perspective. One of the environmental quality objectives is the soiling of wetlands. The definition of this objective is to maintain the ecological and water-sustaining function of wetlands in the landscape and to preserve valuable wetlands for the future. The bill "A comprehensive climate policy – Climate Action Plan" states that efforts to restore wetlands should be strengthened. Restoration of ditched wetlands can be a contribution to climate action through their function as a carbon sink. Restoration of wetlands can also provide several other benefits in terms of water management and water treatment and promote biodiversity. When on Tuesday I was able to learn the knowledge that exists in the environmental organisations regarding water issues and wetlands, it was clear what significance the wetlands can have. In times of climate change, these can be like fungi that maintain water during drought. They could be a barrier to fires. Wetlands can absorb large amounts of water during rain. Even in densely populated cities, they can play an important role. For example, they can help with stormwater management and clean the water before it is passed on. Wetlands can contribute to biodiversity and a rich bird life. A few years ago I visited a tourist island. Instead of large hotel complexes, wetlands had been established. It proved to be a success from many different perspectives, both for biodiversity and for finding a new tourism industry. It became a tourist magnet. Many wanted to visit the wetlands to experience the uniqueness. In the budget proposal for 2020, SEK 200 million was allocated for wetlands. Wetland investment was discontinued in 2019 due to that year's budget. But the government proposed in the bill for our amending budget increased funds. According to the budget proposal, wetland investment has enabled the county administrative boards, among other things, to decide on 148 projects in municipalities on wetlands and to implement 159 own restoration measures, mainly in protected areas. It is possible to apply for funding for measures to restore or build wetlands. The county administrative boards have also implemented 156 restoration measures in 121 areas. The aim is that the environmental setting for the management of wetlands and ponds should comprise 8 400 hectares. The total area has increased from 5,500 hectares in 2007 to 8,500 hectares now. These are important issues and future issues, not least in relation to the climate change that is going on. Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, the climate issue is a high priority. The climate affects all life on earth. It's the emissions we're supposed to counteract. In order to save the climate and the environment and create a cleaner future for future generations, we must continue to invest in and develop methods that help protect the climate. I would like to ask you to accept Amendment No 3. I would also like to point out to the audience that, through the simple exercise procedure, all the other proposals made by the Liberals in our motion can be found.
i-KqTRUVvNdqtZWTB1rAyQqZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina Lundström, for the presentation! It was a little wetland holiday that was sung here. We agree that the wetlands are good and that there may be synergies with building wetlands in the same way as Nina Lundström described. One of our reservations today is about that. There are also problems with wetlands. One obstacle to the establishment of wetlands and one that arises from the establishment of wetlands is that there will be beach protection in new watercourses. I would like to hear whether the Liberals are prepared to reconsider the beach protection rules of new watercourses, so that farmers, for example, can more easily build a watercourse, or a pond for water management, with a combined benefit for biodiversity. That's my question.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-142	Madam President, I would like There is an ongoing review of how future beach protection rules will be designed. Such an important issue in this review is mainly to enable the development of activities and also to be able to settle in areas where it is not hard-exploited. The question put by Staffan Eklöf to the effect that there would be a negative impact on wetlands or on other legislation, I can take with me. I have not encountered that question before. The ongoing investigation will investigate a number of inhibitory effects in order to develop activities and more. We will be waiting for that question, and we will see what the investigation concludes.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-145	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I thank you for the willingness to address the issue and think about it. But you may have to be active to address this issue. Just as Nina Lundström talks about, the problem formulation is often that one should be able to reduce beach protection in areas that are not hard-exploited. However, with regard to the issue that I am highlighting, it may well be precisely in the highly exploited areas that the problem may arise. Thank you for your answer and thank you for the willingness to assess this issue in the future.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-148	Madam President, I would like The experience I have with the construction of wetlands close to urban areas and in densely populated areas is that this issue has not come up in any case that I know of. I come from Sweden's most densely populated municipality, which is working very actively to review the possibility of building wetlands and ponds. It is for this reason that it is also a stormwater management issue. I still find it interesting to highlight the question of whether there could be a complication in continuing to develop wetlands. For the Liberals, that is a very important question. We see that there is a strong climate carrier to be able to use wetlands. That is why we must, of course, be very careful if there are other legislation that could intervene and hamper development. I haven't seen those examples anywhere. But, of course, you have to take it with you in your work. The important thing here is to move forward on the issues. As there is an investigation in progress, you must continue to monitor what that investigation concludes. But the question is important. I hope that we really do ensure that we create opportunities for more wetlands.
i-SzA63PkxQpYdoL3pp3y7De	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the motion for a resolution and reject the motions. The report is called Rural Policy but concerns agricultural policy. I attended the National Forest Programme's seminar in Umeå yesterday about multi-use. I can sum it up in such a way that, regardless of the organisation or authority from which one came, one was fairly agreed. The functioning of forestry and multi-use require a coherent broad rural policy that also raises other issues. It's about government service. The postal service must work, and the infrastructure must work. There are several different parts. It is about municipalities having the right resources to cope with the welfare of the future. It is absolutely crucial for us to be able to manage forestry in rural areas. It's the same with agriculture. If we do not have a coherent rural policy, agriculture will not work. Humans have cultivated the land for thousands of years. We have made it so successful that we can now feed more billions of people than we have ever been able to do before. But agriculture does not look the same today as it did 1 000 years ago, 200 years ago, 100 years ago or even 50 years ago. My parents wound up their farm with seven cows almost 50 years ago because that farm was not profitable. It did not meet the demands of that time, nor did it meet the demands of the future. My grandfather decommissioned a slightly larger farm with a little better conditions a few decades later. The gradual reduction and enlargement of existing farms has been going on for quite some time. Perhaps today we are most affected by the CAP. A few weeks ago I and some colleagues visited Maud and Stellan Strand's farm in Vännäs. They have been producing milk for more than 35 years, and they have worked and cultivated the farm so that it is fairly well managed and profitable. They're working today to make a generational shift, but it's hard. Children are not interested in taking over the farm, which takes on investments to be profitable for the future. More young people who want to take over want the best possible technology. They want free-range animals, high animal welfare and the latest technology. Last week, when we met the leadership of LRF Youth, they raised the issue of generational change as the most important issue for Swedish agriculture and rural Sweden. The average age is high, on average over 58 years, and in many parts of the country it is well over 60 years old. In order for Sweden to succeed in having a farm, it is necessary that we have farmers. And to have farmers, we also need to have a working generational change. Devoting direct payments to young farmers is a method that the EU has tried since the CAP reform in 2015. In the forthcoming CAP reform, it sounds like the European Commission is proposing that 2% of the aid be turned into start-up aid and direct payments. It could be an important part. We Social Democrats also believe that there is a need to influence the financial market to become more benevolent in lending regardless of the type of company in question. If you're in the countryside and you go to the bank, it's not easy. If you move and are going to borrow from the same business in the vicinity of a larger city, the matter is much easier. This is a motion report. Daniel Bäckström's motion addresses the need for investment aid in Värmland. Madam President, I would like It looks the same all over the country. We have many agricultural entrepreneurs who want to develop their businesses, and the money is not enough. The new CAP programming period should start in 2021, but we all know in this House how Brexit has affected and what its impact is. We'll have to be happy if we have a program in place 2022. The Commission has therefore proposed the necessary transitional rules with new money and the same rules, which we naturally welcome. It is to be welcomed that farmers too know that investment aid will be able to remain. It is generally gratifying that we have strong support for the common policy and that it should be designed so that we increase productivity and strengthen competitiveness in the food chain. We also fully agree with the government's assessment that a continued market orientation of the common agricultural policy is absolutely necessary. We need simplification, lower expenditure and greater liberalisation. It must be done through fair competition, and it must not lead to decreasing climate or environmental ambitions, but to increased ones. Madam President, I would like It sounds almost from some members of the committee that we can throw the food strategy into the sea. I ask them then which parts are they think we should remove. When we meet the farmers, at least the farmers' organisations, we hear that they think this is a good thing. There are more than 30 points in Action Plan 2.0. After all, all the points are necessary in one way or another, and I understand the farmers at farm level who say that this may not have completely fallen out. But we need to pursue the policy as we can, and it is not to bring direct resources down to farm level in the form of aid that runs counter to the current programming period. I believe that all Members here are fully aware of this. However, we need to take a number of measures. A few weeks ago, when I was involved in the opening of a method kitchen in Vilhelmina to increase the skills of preparing more of the local food, a particular issue was raised, namely that the shortage of charcuteries is alarming. We don't have butchers, and we don't have small-scale slaughterhouses. This part is also an important part of the food strategy. It is the trade organisation Meat and Chark companies that, together with the food strategy, will investigate and make the need visible. We also have an opportunity here to get more people to work. There are important moves on regulatory issues and the need for regulatory changes. We share this view, and we are happy to highlight the simplification journey of Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. There are things to do, and we will do them together to reduce the regulatory burden. This needs to be done together with the new CAP reform so that it is as fair as possible. Researchers from SLU and the School of Economics at Lund University have produced a report that concerns that we need more financial incentives to maintain natural pastures here in the country, even though there is support. So we need more natural pastures. We also have exercise about bees. Bees and natural pastures fall out very well together. They are an important complement to the need for biodiversity. 90 percent of all the earth's plant species are pollinated by the earth's wild pollinators. That is why I would like to highlight the LONA project that the municipalities are managing. It is possible to apply for support from this project to investments in bees and pollinators, and the deadline for applications is 22 March. Madam President, I would like Finally, it gets warmer, wetter and drier at the same time. We believe that there is great potential for Swedish agriculture in the future if we manage to manage climate change. We have a much-needed debate on our own level of self-sufficiency. We also have a longer growing season and the opportunity to grow other crops. We have the possibility of longer outings for farm animals. These are positive parts. At the same time, crop variations are increasing, and there is a risk of new diseases, fungal infestations and precipitation during different parts of the season. We have to deal with this together. We see this as absolutely necessary. Back to what I started with: Without new farmers no agriculture.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Mrs Isak From, who I think speaks very well about the countryside, about the concerns and even about the positive things that are in the countryside! I was thinking about one thing when the honourable Member spoke about cohesion in rural areas. The gap between how people in rural areas and people in the big city experience life is no longer small and is becoming very big. One example that I think is clear is when Telia cuts the copper wire – wire after wire around our entire country. Not least in the area from which the honourable Member himself comes, it has been so, and I feel that it is the same in my municipality of residence. The problem is we're talking about adding more money. That is what is worrying, because it is so much money. That is why my question to the honourable Member is: what is the government thinking here? Like the honourable Member, it is about having agriculture and forestry in our country, and then we must have broadband. For many, it's just a dream to get broadband. My question is, as I said, how does the honourable Member think about this?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-179	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! We Social Democrats live by the motto: From each one according to the ability to each one as needed. And we are now seeing that Västerbotten is the sparsely populated county that is at the forefront of broadband deployment. At the same time, we have smaller municipalities that are lagging behind. That is why we must bet against those who have the greatest need. Those counties that did not have the ability to see in the early 2000s that it was fiber that was the future and those who invested in an already old ADSL system are now helpless behind – this applies for example to parts of Västra Götaland. Therefore, it is obvious to us that we should put in the efforts where they do the most good, and it is not in Skellefteå, Umeå or Stockholm at the moment, but in the countryside. In fact, large parts of South and Middle Sweden are helplessly behind. Of course I understand that there will be a violent frustration when the broadband does not work. I ran for Parliament in 2010. The copper grid began to be cut in 2009. Of course it was then a very big question at my house. Then you could face up to this by building broadband. Links were built. It is clear that cohesion must work. You should not cut if there is no alternative, but we cannot invest in an age-old system that does not meet tomorrow's demands.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-182	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for your answer! That is exactly what the honourable Member is up to. It has now been a few years. You're talking about 2009. It is therefore eleven years ago, and this is still a major issue for many people. They still feel that they do not have enough broadband or that they do not have broadband at all. If we are to have a living countryside, which we both work for, it is clear that it is a key that this exists. Then it wants us to allocate resources for this or that we require Telia to wait with this haircut until there is a viable alternative, which we have not seen. There's another thing that's pretty topical right now. Trafikverket has introduced a fine of SEK 2,900 for forest owners who put a timber warehouse on a public road. It is also a typical issue with a rural perspective. They think: Well, they decide this. They cut the copper wire, and we don't have any broadband. Now they're also charging us a penalty for putting up timber. Especially in these times with a lot of spruce bark drills, we should not impose a penalty on our forest owners for this sort of thing.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-187	Madam President, I would like Our committee, together with the Transport Committee this morning, had a much-needed and important tour of the timber warehouse. Of course I might think that two important aspects have been missed. It is the road safety aspect, and it is the climate and environmental aspect of the small individual forest owner, who is required to make a felling based on spruce bark attacks. I think that we can and should demand forms of derogation. This fee is not burdensome for large-scale forestry – or it does not affect large-scale forestry at all. However, it definitely affects the small forest owner, and this concerns the fight against granbark drilling. I can conclude by saying that, for us, it goes without saying that a functioning rural policy means that we have a postal service that works and that gets out, that we have support for the country traders and that we have a public service in the state. That is why we are expanding the public service offices. That is why we ensure that Arbetsförmedlingen will exist and be active throughout the country. For us, it's the whole country before the rest.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-191	Madam President, I would like I am the first to emphasise that we, the Moderates, are really behind the food strategy and the objectives of the food strategy. However, we express deep concern about where we are actually going. Madam President, I would like I know that the honourable Member is very ambitious and wants the countryside well. I hear that a lot. The problem is you don't deliver anything. There's no delivery. We're going the wrong way. As we all know, milk production is the engine of Swedish agriculture. We've always seen it as the engine. We have always seen it as the parameter that shows how Swedish agriculture is doing. Madam President, I would like The honourable Member spoke in his speech about relatives who laid down farms when they became too small, due to a size rationalization. Size rationalization is absolutely not stupid. There's nothing wrong with that. That is what has led us to increase our production as much as we have done recently. But when we get such a strong scale rationalization that we're going to have to get in the next ten years – and if the number of farms decreases enormously – we'll also have a huge environmental load around the units that are going to be very large. That is why it would be interesting, Madam President, to hear the honourable Member's reasoning on, for example, grazing legislation in the future, when the herds will be large and there is a need for a fairly high soil load and environmental load around these farms.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for the questions! Yes, I asked the question. If the food strategy does not deliver, I would like to hear what parts of the food strategy it thinks we should remove. We have also announced a peasant package, but it will be quite difficult to introduce a peasant package before we know what will come in the new CAP, before we know what will be in the common agricultural policy and what will be in national support. I believe that we must respect this. As I said from the speaker's seat, we are generally confused with Brexit and the consequences it entails, but we must take it with us. As far as competitiveness and the proportion of dairy farmers are concerned, I can see that agriculture and the LRF are still looking quite brightly at the future. It is, among other things, generational change that is a great restraint. There is also concern about the new CAP. There is concern that the policy does not hold together and that we do not have a common position: that this is extremely important. I still think we do. It sends out very clear signals to the sector that it is important to invest in this. I can see that in my home country there is a great deal of difficulty in carrying out generational changes. You think it's awkward. At the same time, we have Dutch people who come and take over agriculture, and they think it is fantastic to run agriculture in Sweden. Then I have to say that perhaps there is something that we can do ourselves and that the sector can do. I still think the young farmers are on the right track here. They see that it is absolutely necessary to make certain investments in order for them to be able and able to invest. I think we need to face it up.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-201	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer on grazing legislation. I hope that the honourable Member will return in his next speech on this issue. In his speech, the honourable Member highlighted the importance of investment aid. I also think it is very important that we really take care of it when we enter the new CAP period, because I also get those signals. Many people want to invest and find new smart solutions throughout the food chain. It will be extremely important for us to find the means to do so. Then there are generational shifts. First of all, of course, there is someone who is interested and wants to do this. It was pointed out earlier that banks may not always be benevolent in providing funds. To some extent you can understand that, because calculations with sufficient cash flow and profitability may not be shown. There are some things we can do on the political side. Now, of course, I represent a party in favour of reduced taxes, and the honourable Member here, Madam President, represents a party in favour of increased taxes, so that is where we differ. But this could be one thing. I meet many farmers who talk about problems with rules that exist, but very many raise the question of the response they receive from different authorities. It is about the amount of authorities that they should have to meet, but above all it concerns the response of authorities and the legal uncertainty that they claim to experience. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member if he has any inside information on where we are in the pipeline with regard to the investigation of civil liability.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-206	Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of civil liability, I should like to refer to my colleagues in the Constitutional Committee. Perhaps they are the ones who have the best insight into where that issue lies. I'm going to touch on the grazing legislation a little bit. Climate change and what we have seen in the last two summers make it absolutely necessary to look at allowing for variations. I think we have the opportunity to have animals out for a longer period of the year than we have today. In some parts of the year, we may have to be able to make exceptions and look at this a little more flexibly. I think that we should be able to agree on this, and I think that the industry has also made a good contribution to what can be done. Nevertheless, the basis for the credibility of agriculture is that we have healthy, prosperous animals that can be out – without being disturbed by animal rights activists. It is totally untenable and something that we absolutely must ensure that we stop.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-209	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From! I think Isak From made a straw man. He says that the food strategy was criticised. I didn't hear that. I heard more about people saying that the food strategy is not delivering. That's why I thought I'd talk about the food strategy. The food strategy has measures that mainly have a long-term impact, and that is one of the basic problems. Then one must have a policy for the short term too. Pending the impact of the food strategy, the low profitability must be increased, among other things. Isak From said that support cannot be given in violation of the current rules, as I understood it. But I would like to say that it is enough to do as Isak From wanted, namely to give agriculture a level playing field. Isak From said that. You can do that right now. It is possible to reduce the employer's contribution, abolish sickness pay, compensate for increased slaughter fees and reduce diesel tax. In this way, farmers will have fairer conditions of competition on the spot, and they will also have increased profitability. Then we will have the farmers left when the food strategy finally takes effect in the future. Isn't that right, Isak From?
i-Cndk4jaT4gSdNy9Chs3YfU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the questions! For us, however, it is probably very important to have equal and fair rules of play, regardless of the sector. If we are to make efforts specifically for an industry, we need very good arguments for this. If we are to do so for agriculture and for agriculture, we also need this to comply with the common agreements and the agricultural policy that we have agreed in the European Union. There we and the Swedish Democrats differ very clearly. In the Swedish Democrats' motion, I read that through CAP we should ensure Swedish agriculture. It is clear that Dutch people, Italians and Greeks can say the same thing, but that is not really what we have come up with. After all, the CAP is based precisely on fair and equal competitive advantages for all countries. That's what we want to fight for. We want to ensure our ability to make national efforts in those areas where we are a little ahead, such as the animal welfare issue, as it now looks, thankfully, as if we get a hearing in order to be able to support in a better way. For example, low antibiotic use should be rewarded. We think that is very good. Here Sweden has had a long job in the EU. Previously we were ridiculed, but now we look at Sweden: How has Sweden done to achieve this? Yes, we have worked very broadly with animal welfare to achieve success. It is by being active and recording our questions and getting understanding from the other countries that we have the opportunity to actually implement something that will be good for everyone.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-218	Madam President, I would like Then we were told that the Social Democrats do not specifically want to increase the profitability of the agricultural industry in the near future. Instead, they want to work in the long term and with rules common to the EU. I would remind you that it is not at all unusual to make specific efforts for industries that have problems, and the reason why Swedish agriculture has problems is actually an asymmetry. It is political rules that cause the farming industry to have problems that other industries do not have, and then we politicians can fix the problems we have set up ourselves. Isak From describes Sweden's EU policy correctly: We want to think primarily of Sweden in the EU negotiations. It's not some weird position, it's the position you have now that's weird. If we in the Swedish Democrats get what we want, then in future Sweden will do like all the other Member States. Then we believe that Sweden in many pieces – perhaps not in all, because it is difficult with EU negotiations – will have a better outcome. The lack of profitability is not just about the disappearance of farms, which is incredibly boring and the worst. However, if you are not interested in this, you can point out that low profitability also increases nutrient leakage to the Baltic Sea because you do not invest in environmental technologies that would have increased profitability while reducing nutrient leakage to the Baltic Sea. So there are also environmental effects, and this is just one of several examples. Reducing livestock is another example as well as reduced grazing of the Swedish savannahs, mulens land, which reduces biodiversity.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-223	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf puts words in my mouth, like the Social Democrats would not care about this. Nothing can be more wrong. Over the years, with an S-led government, whether it has been a milk crisis, drought or any other crisis, we have ensured that we have been able to introduce relevant and important support for our agricultural industry. We intend to be able to do this in the future, and then we also need to hear our questions. Then we must be considered credible. When we emphasise that we want increased environmental and climate action, it must apply to everyone, otherwise we distort competition. We cannot introduce different forms of aid individually when we have not received approval for it. I think most people understand that. You may not think it's good, but it's still the conditions. Staffan Eklöf was not in at the time, but when the previous alliance government set up the Competitiveness Investigation, which I still thought was good, it showed very clearly that some farms had very high profitability. This was especially true of those who had their own land and more legs to stand on. It was the peasants and peasants who had not made the necessary investments in the future who had poor profitability. That is what we continue to see, and that is why the change of generation is an important issue to address. For us to be credible, it must also be credible out there. What measures are actually being requested? We will take part in the discussions. What is the task of the industry, and what is the task of politics? Believe nothing else – we Social Democrats will work hard on these issues!
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-228	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Every year 600 hectares of arable land are lost in Sweden. Housing, shopping centres and industrial areas are being built, and the land has to make room for infrastructure. This happens at the same time as we know that Sweden needs to strengthen food production. The food strategy is clear, that is, that total food production should increase and that we should increase the level of self-sufficiency. The field is of course of strategic importance. We are facing major climate challenges. Climate change makes food production impossible in some places. We need to have new strategies. The latest compilation of agricultural land exploitation in Sweden for 2011 – 2015 showed that 3 000 hectares were destroyed during this period. It is also Sweden's best farmland around the countryside that is at risk of being exploited. I would like to emphasise that I am one of the green politicians who believe that municipalities must take responsibility for housing policy and ensure that housing is built. However, sustainable urban development and rural development must ensure that ecosystem services are protected, with a particular focus on food security. We must have stronger protection for drinking water and arable land. Once hardened, agricultural land cannot be restored. It's an irreversible process. The municipalities do not currently have the tools and support to stop the exploitation of arable land. As early as 2013, the Swedish Board of Agriculture proposed a strengthening of the Planning and Construction Act in order to give county boards greater opportunities to intervene in and stop plans for the exploitation of arable land in order to protect the environmental code. The proposal must be implemented. I believe that there is already a need for a moratorium on the widespread exploitation of agricultural land for trade, industrial land and housing construction around our major cities. The security of Sweden's food supply needs to be put in focus. Agricultural policy should be of interest to many more politicians. Now is the time to get involved in the development of a new period of the common agricultural policy in the EU. In an open letter to the EU in November, 2,500 researchers identified the current agricultural policy as the main cause of biodiversity loss. This requires innovation. Instead of basing agricultural aid on surface units, EU payments should be based on what the farmer actually does and how it contributes to the transition to more sustainable food production. This would benefit Swedish farmers well. The current EU agricultural policy has led to a catastrophic loss of biodiversity. For example, birds in agricultural areas have decreased by 55% between 1980 and 2015. We need pollinates in agriculture; a variety of insect species, not only bees and bumble bees, but also everything from small flies to trippers. Have you heard of them? The science hasn't even been able to detect them. They are disappearing from an increasing number of places at raging speed. With new methods, Swedish researchers, whom I visited at Station Linné on Öland, together with Artdatabanken, have recently discovered 1,000 new insect species in Sweden. Some risk disappearing before they have even been described to science. Madam President, I would like The environmental party's priorities are to increase environmental benefits and support for rural development. The environmental party's goals are increased climate and environmental ambitions. Every farmer has an extremely important role as manager of our common ecosystems. Aid must therefore henceforth be based more on the values that farmers can promote when they use the land. Agriculture produces food, but it also produces clean water, healthy earthworm soils, carbon storage, virgin linen in the meadows, and singing doctrines in the fields. The farmer can sell his food, but the more social benefits agriculture produces, the more the state should pay for its environmental work. Today, around 80% of agricultural aid goes to around 20% of farms in the EU. The system benefits in many parts of other Member States purely feudal structures and corruption, which undermines the efficiency of agriculture. Transparency and control procedures are important, and in Sweden we also have our very own problems with IT systems and payments. The Government has added additional resources and appointed a Board of Directors at the Swedish Board of Agriculture, but it now seems that a whole new approach needs to be taken for the next period of support. Aid must be developed so that small farmers and vegetable growers can also be promoted. We need to invest in more diversified agriculture and more processing companies linked to agriculture. We need to increase the focus on enforcing natural pastures, and the area of natural pastures needs to be doubled. We cannot continue with the large-scale and structural rationalisation which is actually one of the reasons why many farmers are closing down. The other day LRF and Fossil-free Sweden presented their road map for agriculture. It is extremely gratifying to see that there are now ambitions to get rid of fossil energy in agriculture by 2030. The objectives of the roadmap must, of course, become part of the new agricultural policy. Economic sustainability in agriculture is important in order for us to have a growing agricultural industry in Sweden. The Centre Party has said in the speaker's chair today that all companies in the food chain must have competitive conditions. That's good! I would particularly like to highlight organic farming in this context. It is serious that the conditions and conditions of competition for Swedish organic farming are significantly worse than in our neighbouring countries. Organic farming practices have huge environmental benefits and are world-class in terms of animal welfare and antibiotic freedom. Organic farming can be a model for solutions that also benefit conventional farming in the future. 5 000 farmers in Sweden carry out organic farming, and it is important that we put their competitiveness in focus. A survey carried out by the organic farmers shows that Swedish organic farmers receive far less compensation than organic farmers in our neighbouring countries. The ecomarket is growing internationally, and in order for Swedish eco-farmers to be able to operate in this growing market, it is important that the conditions are fair. Today is the day of milk, Madam President. It is a day created by the United Nations to recognise the value of milk as food. The board of Swedish dairy farmers wrote the other day a debate article in Aftonbladet that would have made Astrid Lindgren turn in her grave. The grazing requirement is a far too important animal welfare and animal health issue for that requirement to be removed and replaced by loose animal husbandry. The grazing requirement also brings other benefits, such as an open landscape. This can be read in a report from the Swedish Board of Agriculture last year. The Green Party fully agrees with this and can add that biodiversity benefits strongly from grazing. Swedish Milk and their representatives should be proud of the Swedish animal welfare and should continue to sell products with added value instead of developing animal industry production according to international models. Madam President, I would like There has been an extremely interesting discussion today, and I would have liked to have asked for many lines. Now I hope someone has asked for a line on me.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your speech. I'm glad you mentioned milk's day. We had planned to have it in Parliament today, but unfortunately it did not get rid of the corona virus, etc. I believe that the UN Milk Day is 1 June, but milk's day in Parliament is actually established by me and the Christian Democrats. Right should be right. I think that the food strategy is a common thread in what most people have talked about here today. I'd still like to ask you a little bit about it. The food strategy was adopted with broad support here in the Swedish parliament. I myself think it is important and positive for Swedish rural areas that we have adopted it. Let us look at what has happened, for example with profitability. One of the cornerstones of this is that profitability should increase, competitiveness should be strengthened and self-sufficiency in food should increase. As I said in my speech, on all three points we can check off unaccepted. My question to the honourable Member is how she feels that the government has dealt with the food strategy. We see that on point after point it is not approved.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-252	Madam President, I would like The food strategy came about after many parties, including the Green Party, pushed for Sweden to need a food strategy. It is extremely important to remember that the last parliamentary term – I was not allowed to attend, because I was not here in Parliament at the time – many parties agreed on the food strategy, and they were able to agree on the long-term plans. Not all changes can happen overnight or even over a month or a year – or two years or three years. There are major changes that need to happen and work long-term. We need a long-term sustainable change in the whole approach to food. I am pleased that Anders Wijkman, who has been a Christian Democrat in the past, in particular, pushed strongly to bring the level of self-sufficiency and self-sufficiency into the food strategy. They came into a late stage, and that made those texts rather concise. After what the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture is working on now, to look more closely at the vulnerability of agriculture, I think we should take a little bigger initiative to be involved in developing those parts of the food strategy that are about the degree of self-sufficiency and vulnerability there. I also want things to go faster. I can imagine that there are certain elements in the food strategy that lead to the closure of agriculture, such as the unilateral focus on increased structural rationalisation.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-256	Madam President, I would like In his speech, the honourable Member said that we need a living farm and more dairy farmers. But with the facts in hand, we see that it is exactly the opposite. Five dairy farmers end up every week. The food strategy states that profitability will increase. When I talk to farmers – which I know the honourable Member is also out doing – I constantly hear a mantra that I feel is not only said but also meant: profitability must increase. The profitability of agriculture must be increased. I find it interesting to hear the honourable Member say that it may not have happened as soon as the honourable Member seems to want to. I think this is sound, because we cannot be satisfied with the fact that we are the only country in Europe where the amount of milk is weighed down and the number of dairy farmers is reduced by five every week. We have an environmental code that works against agriculture. Sweden is, I know, the only country where agriculture is classified as environmentally dangerous. Is this something that you, Maria Gardfjell, will work to remove? What's in the environmental code can't be right. It cannot be right for farmers who go to the milk pit, for example, to think that it is dangerous activity. Is the honourable Member going to change that?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-260	Madam President, I would like There are farmers who handle large quantities of pesticides. They need to keep their farm in order so there won't be leakage. You may have other large-scale activities; you may have thoughts about diesel and so on. It is clear that agricultural companies, like any other company that has such activities, should be controlled by our environmental authorities. It is also stated in the environmental code that agriculture is also included among the companies where such control is to be carried out. This does not mean that everything a farmer does would be environmentally dangerous. This is an idea that Magnus Oscarsson has invented here in Parliament's Chamber, a big city idea. I think it is important to increase the focus on getting a less vulnerable agriculture, more resilience and robustness and a better future for Swedish agriculture. That is why we need to highlight certain strategic issues in the debate. One such question I tried to highlight — that of the conservation of arable land. Another important question is precisely how farmers can continue to operate. There are many different reasons why dairy farmers are becoming fewer. In part, they are bought up. There will be larger units and larger farms – with bigger problems in some ways. But the cows and those lands are still under cultivation. There are others who are completely closing down, who are unable to cope with generational change. Then, of course, there are those who have financial problems of various kinds. I think we should take more responsibility for that.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-264	Madam President, I would like I think that was said very well in the speech. There's a lot of good visions about where we're going. However, we do not always agree on how we get there. But I thought there were many good input and many important things that were raised in the speech. One thing I am thinking about right now is that we should use the right words, otherwise we will have a distortion of the debate. We are not talking about pesticides in agriculture, we are talking about plant protection products. It is important, Madam President. In the speech, the honourable Member raised this issue with the use of arable land and the decreasing amount of arable land. I also heard that there is a desire to strengthen the protection of arable land. Then I would like to explain what is meant by strengthening protection, because there is also a piece of property law in this. Today, for example, there are farmers who want to cut up land on arable land in order to make a generational change, because the outgoing generation wants to build a house somewhere on the farm, but is denied because it is building on arable land. This while municipalities, for example, exploit very hard on arable land. So there is a piece of ownership law in this, and I would like to hear the reasoning on what is actually meant by enhanced protection of arable land. Then we always have a discussion about organic farming. It was lifted up here today too. Since it was mentioned that we are too much government subsidies to organic farming, I would just like to ask quickly whether that is really the way we are going to have it. If it is so excellent, that cultivation, will it not be able to stand on its own feet?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-269	Madam President, I would like I emphasise that the conditions of competition for organic farming need to be similar between the different countries. There's a big difference here. In Germany, for example, an organic lamb farm can receive SEK 135 000 more in organic support compared to a similar farm in Sweden. In Finland, the compensation is almost SEK 100 000 higher and in Denmark SEK 85 000 higher. Since Swedish farmers operate on this market with organic products in the EU, it is important that the conditions are fair. I also think it is important to point out that the objectives we have in the food strategy regarding organic food in public procurement have led us to increase the proportion of Swedish food in the public sector. Public restaurants have 60 per cent Swedish food and private restaurants about 10 per cent. Here, of course, we need to see what we have achieved thanks to organic farming and its efforts. In the case of chemical pesticides, this is an overall concept for both plant protection products and insecticides and the like. Of course, on the part of industry and conventional agriculture, we are not very happy to talk about chemical pesticides, but rather to use the finer word 'plant protection products', because that sounds nicer. But this is undeniably still a major problem. I would be happy to return to the agricultural land in my second reply.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-273	Madam President, I would like Plant protection products are herbicides, pesticides and fungicides. This is what we use in cultivation. I hope to hear some more reasoning about the protection of arable land. I also believe that although other European farmers may have higher support for organic production, it should be the same, so that we have the same support for organic and conventional throughout the EU. That's how I thought; I wasn't just thinking about what it looks like in Sweden. Should we not work to ensure that it is equal across the EU? There are both advantages and disadvantages to both types of production – we see this time and again in different research results. The Swedish Food Authority and other authorities have produced reports on both the utility of the different production methods and the amount of biodiversity. I think it is extremely important that we constantly balance the debate and do not favour anyone. It becomes very strange when we set production targets for one or the other in our public documents. Why can't we let the market decide for itself? We see, for example, that the demand for organic production is currently falling for many products.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-278	Madam President, I would like There are 5 000 organic farmers in Sweden. I do not understand why the Moderates are one of the parties that want to make it more difficult for them to continue with their agriculture and continue to feed the Swedish population with good food that gives great extra opportunities to get a better environment. As far as the protection of arable land is concerned, I think it is extremely important that we take a clearer approach. About 600 hectares of arable land, good soil, disappears every year. How does this rhyme with us being able to invest in more production of food in Sweden? It doesn't rhyme at all, in fact. Here we really need to ensure that the formulations that exist about socially important activities in the Planning and Construction Act are reviewed so that it is socially important to preserve arable land to produce food on.
i-WRHrYGi8GXGUxJWdzDHuRb	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Peter E r iksson and Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-280	Madam President, I would like My question is to the Minister for Infrastructure. SAS has announced that they will cancel 2 000 flights in March and negotiate with their employees on reduced working hours. FRA cancels departures in domestic traffic. Norwegian cancels 3,000 departures from March to June. The global capacity of the aviation industry is estimated to be somewhere between SEK 600 billion and SEK 1 070 billion. The situation is already much worse for the aviation industry than at 11 September or the ash cloud. Effective action must be taken quickly to secure vital transport during and after the crisis.
i-KmB8Y69LedPM9aYN6g9zKf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. As is said, the crisis we are now seeing as a result of the transmission of corona is a major challenge for aviation. It is clear that when transport is cancelled, it represents a major challenge, not least for the aviation industry, which was already under pressure. And as presented here, it is a challenge not only for SAS, BRA or Norwegian but also for international flights. From the government's side, we have had a high level of preparedness for several different scenarios. After consultation with the opposition, we were able to account for a number of general efforts that are probably so important for airlines, such as short-term work and deferred employers' contributions. I intend to have discussions tomorrow with the aviation industry and its players to get a better idea of what action will be needed specifically for the aviation industry and the challenge it faces.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-286	Madam President, I would like At this point, the crisis is affecting aviation most of the modes of transport, but the whole transport industry will be affected by it. In Denmark and Norway, crisis talks between the transport industry and governments have been going on for some time. The Minister for Infrastructure has invited the aviation industry to meet, but this will affect the entire transport industry. My question is, why does the government wake up this late? Why has a meeting not been called before?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-289	Madam President, I would like We don't wake up late. We have a continuous dialogue with the entire transport industry. But given the development, I felt it was important to bring together the various actors, authorities, trade unions and industry representatives. This will also be done with several other sectors of the transport sector. Of course, we have a continuous dialogue with several of the operators in the transport sector. There is no doubt that this crisis is affecting the transport sector, and it needs to be strong in a situation where we will need more transport in the future.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-291	Madam President, I would like The situation with the proliferation of covid-19 is very serious. The number of infected people in Sweden continues to increase, and the risk of spreading the coronavirus has now increased to very high. Sweden's preparedness is now being tested in a sharp situation. We have a serious situation with regard to medical equipment, as there are no reserves in our regions. According to information from the National Board of Health and Welfare, we now hope for a contract within two weeks, but a delivery time cannot be guaranteed. The increased demand for equipment should have been an obvious part of our preparedness. It is therefore important that the Government now explains why there are no security stocks for protective equipment and that the Government also describes how we should ensure that protective equipment is in place in our regions.
i-U5WvSUXupSjazjpyHq1Uwk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Clara Aranda, for the question! Of course, it is important to have the right level of preparedness, not least with regard to protective equipment. It is incredibly important in a situation where healthcare will have to do more sampling given the development with increased spread of infection. Then, of course, there is a great responsibility for regions such as health professionals to ensure that they have the right access to health equipment. There is also work going on at European level on joint procurement to ensure that we in Europe have the right access to protective equipment. This is an issue that is of the highest priority, not only for the government but also, of course, for the Public Health Agency, the Swedish National Board of Health and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, with the responsibility to ensure that healthcare now has the very best conditions to meet the challenge that it entails with more infected people.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-296	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. With all due respect for the serious situation we are currently in, the fact remains that there is a need for improved preparedness and, above all, a review of the authority's mandate to give directives to regions on, for example, the redistribution of materials. Therefore, I wonder whether it is the view of the Government that there is reason to review the mandate of the relevant authorities to provide clearer directives for a more efficient and safe management.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-299	Madam President, I would like In the development we see, one should be without prestige and see if there is reason to strengthen the mandates of the authorities or to draw other experiences with regard to the current crisis management. Above all, however, what is important is that we act now, and so does the government, the authorities responsible and the health authorities. Right now, the focus is on preventing the spread of infection based on the scenarios we see developing. We are making resolute efforts to prevent the spread of infection.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-302	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Tomas. The Climate Policy Council has today submitted its assessment of the climate action plan of the Government and also of the Centre Party and Liberals. One criticism that emerges is that it is sometimes a little unclear and that the necessary measures are not put forward. One of the measures that has come forward, and which has been decided in the 2020 budget, is an environmental truck premium. My question to Tomas Eneroth is: when can we actually see the regulations so that we can start paying out money? It is of the utmost importance that they come into place, preferably just now.
i-4YR9RRmrJKVSWX3sVLb5gL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! It is true that the Climate Policy Council has made its accounts today, and that is a good thing. It was we who started that work, where we ourselves will ensure that we are matched with the very high ambitions we have in Sweden to meet the climate challenge – for the transport sector 70 percent reduction by 2030. This means that we are making great efforts for electrification, for biofuel incorporation and, not least, for a more efficient transport system. Then we use several different tools, and one of them is an electric truck premium. There is ongoing preparation in the Government Office. All the efforts we are now working on, from bonuses – malus to various forms of incentives to accelerate development, we prepare as quickly as possible.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-307	Madam President, I would like I think me and Tomas Eneroth agree on almost everything here. But it is not an electric truck premium but an environmental truck premium because it can also go to other fuels. I think the Government is going to read on one more turn. Now it has been quite a long time since we adopted the budget. The fact that we are still waiting for this in March is quite a big problem. A lot of people want to make their investments and come out with this. This is particularly true of liquid gas, which is a fuel on the rise. Is there any indication when we can see it?
i-V3Vb6SXVacJb9LVmPUfduh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin! I think we fully agree that any incentive measures that ensure that we switch the fleet more quickly are good and that it is important for them to arrive as quickly as possible. We prepare this question as quickly as we can, just like the electric bus premium – that's where the electricity came in. Because it is important that we make it through quickly. It is also important to give information to those hauliers who are in a position to decide what type of fleet they will have in the future.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-313	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. Fairway charges have in recent years been marked by increases and have become much less environmentally responsible than in the past. Shipping is the mode of transport that bears more than its own costs. Fairway charges are also negative for inland navigation. Among other things, this has led to a drastic reduction in, for example, Vänersjöfart. The Government aims to move goods from road to rail and shipping to achieve climate targets. But the charges are more the other way around. Will the Minister take any steps to ensure long-term, sustainable financing of maritime infrastructure and to enable it to grow, both on our shores and inland?
i-Xx45ERjKVo7gb5MQ6c7PST	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Thunander! In fact, that's exactly what the government is doing. We are now creating long-term conditions for shipping in Sweden and moving from fairly unclear or partly invisible governance from previous governments to triple investment in fairways, to double the research effort for shipping and also to significantly increase the flagging of Swedish shipping through the tonnage tax. Now we also have a national coordinator for inland and coastal shipping. An important part of this is that we have fairway fees that fund the Swedish Maritime Administration's operations. This, together with port charges, is the cost that the industry will have to bear for the service and commitment that the Swedish Maritime Administration will have in the future. It is important that the Swedish Maritime Administration has a stable economy but also that we continue to strengthen the conditions for shipping. And seriously, since this government took office, it has been a very positive development for shipping.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-320	Madam President, I would like I agree that all those things are great. But that was not the question. It was about the fairway charges. Fairway charges are raised annually and according to the industry have become much less environmentally responsible. This is due, among other things, to many more and different criteria. Many feel that they do not receive compensation for investing in environmental measures on their ships. They do not therefore dare to invest as much as they would like.
i-NK23Sza5e7DFiUQyUZhQvJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Thunander! It's true. I still wanted to give that background description. This is a positive development for shipping. An important part has been to take responsibility for the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances through the increased fairway fees. I am open to looking in the forthcoming revision at whether fairway charges can become more climate-regulating. It is a dialogue that I have with the various players in shipping. The government will, of course, work for everything that moves towards changing shipping even more and towards using it to a greater extent, be so sure.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-325	Madam President, I would like ♪ Little heart ♪ Esmeralda didn't get to be four years old. Her life's fate leaves no one unmoved. A small child was snatched from his security, from his family's parents and siblings, who were her family. The little heart had lived with them all their lives. But it was decided that she would live with her biological parents who were strangers to her. The time that followed led to the worst that could happen. She died. Putting children's best interests first means that biological parents' rights may stand back. We Christian Democrats have long demanded a change, but the investigation that was set up by Maria Larsson in 2012 was not completed by the Social Democratic ministers who followed her. And our motions on the matter since 2014 have been rejected. Is the government now prepared to urgently produce the legislative changes that are necessary for the real interests of children to be given priority in these situations as well?
i-BH8bgVL1tjBUpyWJYA7j9X	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, also for the commitment! It is incredibly important that children's best interests are given priority. This is also one of the reasons why this government has been the driving force for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Swedish law. The best interests of the children should come first. A number of proposals in the investigation that Maria Larsson set up and to which reference is made have also been made, but not all of them. There have been differences of opinion, not least from different consultation bodies. The government's starting point is to strengthen the child perspective steadily. The Minister of Social Affairs has also recently announced a number of further efforts. It is absolutely essential that the best interests of children should be put first.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-331	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the government, too late but yet, is willing to talk with other parties in order to achieve broad agreement on important legislative changes. In this way, I have understood the decisions that have nevertheless been taken in the Committee on Social Affairs. We Christian Democrats will follow this issue closely. And we have again made proposals which are currently being prepared in the Committee on Social Affairs.
i-R9MW4Ectx66BXCw6xfSXUW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin! I think it is absolutely crucial that we have a broad common understanding of the law on children's rights in the future. But we must also respect the difficult balance between the possibility for parents to reconnect and the responsibility of social services on the one hand and foster care on the other. It is clear that it is a complex regulation. But there is no doubt that the best interests of children must be put first.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-337	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. The Corona virus is hitting many industries in Sweden hard, especially in the transport sector. There is a high risk of significant financial losses and the need to lay off staff. I'm going to focus on the vulnerable situation of the aircraft. The airlines and regional airports were already in a difficult economic situation after the fall in 2019. It has now changed dramatically because of the Corona virus. Sweden depends on working flights, both to keep Sweden together and to be able to conduct international trade. That is why I would like to put two questions to the Government. What measures does the Government plan to take to make it easier for the Swedish aviation industry to survive the Corona outbreak? And is there any coordination of measures within the Nordic countries and within the EU?
i-JnvX2peBEM33T27QBKMqTf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Gellerman! I really share the commitment to aviation. It is a very tough challenge that aviation is facing with the crisis that we are facing right now. The government's main priority now is, of course, to deal with the spread of infection and put public health first. But we are also making efforts to reduce the damage caused by the Corona crisis. Good examples of this are short-term work that can come into force as early as 1 May and, for that matter, deferment of employer's and other social security contributions. It will also be important for aviation operators. I have also brought together aviation players tomorrow to listen to the challenges of the aviation industry. I also have cooperation and discussions with the Nordic colleagues. And I know that the Commissioner has announced a joint meeting with the infrastructure ministers throughout the EU. For aviation to meet this challenge, common regulation is needed, but also co-ordination of joint efforts.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-343	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is positive that the government takes this seriously because it is so important for Sweden, after the virus. It is not about the next few months, but it will have repercussions throughout 2020, perhaps even in 2021. My question is: how does the Government think that aid can change if the outbreak becomes serious?
i-Ebghihps8YeYpzqjZ7jVqe	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Gellerman! It is important to look at both general efforts in the short term and what this means for aviation in the long term. Aviation also faces the challenge of switching to biofuels or electrification. How do you have the muscles and the ability to cope with this when you are facing a deep crisis? The planning that the government is working on is about looking at efforts here and now, but also about what we should do long-term so that the flight will have good prospects in the future.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-349	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. I would like to raise a question about the working environment for those who work at sea. Today, it is the Ship Safety Act that regulates the right to choose a safety representative. The safety representatives have a key role to play in the Swedish regulation of the working environment, which is based on the Swedish model of collaboration between the social partners. In the case of ships, unlike work places on land, the employer can in practice appoint a safety representative. One aspect of improving the working environment in maritime transport could therefore be to harmonise legislation on safety representatives after land-based companies. This means that trade unions representing workers are given the right to appoint safety representatives. How does the Minister view this?
i-Pd1QP1fwHQyGbdcVo4mtGu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Büser! This is an important issue in principle. Practically it has worked relatively well when commanders have appointed safety representatives in harmony and in dialogue with not least trade union representatives. In principle, however, it is important that it is the trade union and employee, employee or employee representatives who appoint their safety representatives. To the extent that it appears to be a conflict with the current regulatory framework, I am prepared to undertake a review that could lead to a change. It is a fundamental principle that it is the trade unions and employees who must appoint their safety representatives.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-354	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Swedish shipping in general is crucial for Sweden's competitiveness and for Sweden as a country. By far the largest quantity of exported and imported goods is transported by sea. In the traces of the Corona virus, trade is now at risk of being severely affected. The government has already set ambitious targets for shipping, also as part of the climate transition. What measures does the Minister consider to have been the most important for shipping in recent years, and what does the Minister think needs to be done in the current situation?
i-8kHx5opzj88BwGaTeQB13B	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Büser! It is true that this has been a positive development for shipping, which has been important. With the change in tonnage tax, which provided the conditions for increased flagging, we are better equipped for the present maritime challenge. With the increased investments in fairways that we do, doubled research and other improvements, shipping is doing better now, with the challenges that exist. However, we will need to consult, as with aviation, on important long-term efforts in the maritime sector in response to the Corona crisis.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-360	Madam President, I would like Today in the morning we were reached by the news that the government has decided to set up a scholarship in memory of Zaida Catalán. That's a welcome piece of news. When Zaida was murdered, she was commissioned by the UN in Congo-Kinshasa and collected evidence against the violence and abuse of women and young girls by local rulers. The world then lost a committed champion of human rights, not least for women. Many in the Green Party also lost a close friend. Strengthening and broadening the work for women's rights is incredibly important, and the scholarship is therefore welcome. My question, however, does not apply to the scholarship. The question to the Minister for Development, who was in Congo-Kinshasa quite recently, is: how will it go to find those who murdered Zaida? Can we expect justice to be done and those responsible to be held accountable?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It is true that today we have decided to set up a scholarship. It is the Folke Bernadotte Academy that is tasked with deciding in more detail what it should look like. It is difficult to find a better representative of the UN resolution on women, peace and security than Zaida Catalán. As far as procedural issues are concerned, we know that this has been a difficult and long process. It's not finished yet. There are a large number of people arrested, but there have been some problems along the way. Now, after talks with both the UN's appointed prosecutors, who are contributing and trying to help in the process, and the political leadership in the country, I think that there are signs that there is an opportunity to calm this down and call the guilty to account.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-366	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Being held accountable for violence against women is an important part of reducing violence against women, both ordinary violence and sexual violence. It would therefore be an irony of fate here if men could not be held accountable for what has happened. It is positive if a solution can be found and those responsible are convicted. But what about the role of the UN in this – does it feel like the UN has taken sufficient responsibility to address the fact that one of their associates has been murdered?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-369	Madam President, I would like There was a lot of criticism of the UN's efforts to begin with, but the new prosecutor appointed by the Secretary-General to assist the Congolese prosecutor has done a very good job. I understand that things are moving forward now and that there are great opportunities for us to get to a situation where we put the guilty people to account and put them in prison.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-371	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture Amanda Lind. Today, the members of the Committee on Culture have been on a very interesting business visit to one of the major national scenes in Sweden: the Royal Opera, the national stage for opera and ballet. The opera has been in use since 18 January 1773, when the first performance was given. In the 19th century, the opera house was considered one of the most beautiful buildings in Stockholm. In 1898 a new opera house was opened because it had to demolish the old when it was too small. Now this house is too small. Today, around 520 people work in the hundreds of different occupational groups, with a total of more than 300 000 visitors, of which approximately 50 000 children and young people. Today, the Opera House at Gustav Adolf torg in Stockholm is not a modern facility, but needs restoration. Alternatively, a new one needs to be built. My question to the Minister for Culture is: When does Sweden get a new, alternatively newly renovated, national scene?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-376	Madam President, I would like In 2013, the then government commissioned the National Property Board, in close cooperation with the Opera, to investigate whether the current building can meet the requirements of a national scene for opera and ballet. It is a house with many high cultural heritage values. We know that the current opera house has great concerns when it comes to basic things such as work environment and accessibility. After various steps in the process, the Government Office in April 2019 received a request from the National Property Board to proceed with the creation of a new opera in the Opera. The simple answer is that we continue to prepare this issue within the government.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-379	Madam President, I would like Turkey has been conducting hybrid wars against Europe for a few weeks. The right-wing and ultra-nationalist organisation The Grey Wolves, which in practice acts as the Erdo youth federation, threaten and incite migrants who do not want to flee to Greece themselves. At the same time, the Turkish military regularly organises trafficking in human beings. At the same time, Europe continues to provide aid aimed at strengthening the Turkish economy through support in areas such as trade, transport, energy, competitiveness, entrepreneurship and more. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Development why he thinks that this support should continue. Why should we spend tax crowns to strengthen an authoritarian semi-dictator that actively undermines our own security? So I am not referring to that part of the aid that goes to migrants in Turkey, but specifically to the support that goes to the Turkish economy.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-382	Madam President, I would like The issue raised by Mr Aspling also concerns migrants. We have a situation in which Turkey has received 4 million migrants in recent years from the Syrian war. This has been done with great support from Europe and the EU. Sweden also has aid, not to Turkey's government and regime, but rather to people who work with human rights and conduct an opposition there. The EU's efforts are carried out on several levels. However, they also concern to some extent economic development in the country. The reason for this is to strengthen cooperation and trade with countries around Europe. I can only agree with the fact that developments in Turkey in terms of democracy and human rights are very worrying and give reason to think about what cooperation we are going to have in the future.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-386	Madam President, I would like It is very welcome that so many Swedes want to travel by train. That is why it is very important to expand the railways in Sweden. In southern Sweden we have two very important railway projects. It is about building the double track between Ängelholm and Helsingborg and new tracks between Flackarp and Lund. Everything is, in practice, petted and ready for these important projects. Detail plan is ready, procurement is complete, station modes are ready. The municipalities are really on their toes and want these projects finished. The only thing missing is a building start decision from the government. But no such decision will come. Now it has gone so far that the Swedish Transport Administration is considering completely stopping these projects. That would be absolutely devastating. Then we can lose years before this is done.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-389	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. It is true, as is said, that there are now record investments in the railways. It is the largest rail investment in modern times, and it is at a time when we need to switch the transport sector to climate-smart transport. This government, not least in the previous national plan, made a major effort to expand the railways, and this will have to be done for a long time to come. There is, of course, no point in interrupting the projects that are in the national plan. They shall be implemented. What this is all about is the formal handling of building start-up decisions. They will be prepared in the Government Office, and we will decide on building starts in the future.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-390	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Tomas Eneroth. I have three quite exciting articles here. They are largely linked to what the previous speakers were talking about, namely the fact that today there are about ten or so projects that have been completed. You're waiting for a message. According to both the newspapers and what was said in the previous speech, they are prepared in the Government Office. I have asked earlier in an interpellation debate what happens to the national plan when it is due to be completed in 2022. I was then told that it is being prepared in the Government Office. Earlier here, aviation issues were raised. I understood the answer as that, with the exception of a meeting tomorrow, they will be prepared in the Government Office. Then I wonder, friend of order: Will all preparations in the Government Office soon be ready?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-393	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Jacobsson for the question. Of course the preparations will be ready. In fact, it is this type of preparation that resulted in the largest railway investment in modern times – investments of SEK 700 billion, a triple of the investments in the fairways or, for that matter, all the huge investments that are currently taking place in the Swedish transport sector. It is clear that questions and matters should be properly prepared. We will ensure that there is good evidence before we make decisions. When it comes to building starts, this is an important effort in the national plan, and of course these projects will be implemented. On the other hand, we will ensure that decisions even if building starts are to be handled in legal order and prepared properly before decisions are taken by the Government.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-396	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. A well-functioning healthcare that we can feel safe with is incredibly important to all of us. There are many things that need to work for health care to be good. Something that we do not talk about very often but which is actually crucial is how digital information, for example, between municipal home care and health care can be transferred. I sometimes get signals that this does not work everywhere and that there are difficulties. My question to the Government is whether he can give examples of how to improve conditions, and whether it can be about legislative changes or whether there are other things that need to be done in order for this to work well. It is important to be able to transfer information between different parts of the healthcare system in order for patients to receive the best possible healthcare.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-399	Madam President, I would like I thank Eva Lindh for the question. This is something that some of the heads of health care are working on. Of course, they want the most effective exchange of procedures and information possible. It is not usually a question of legal barriers, it is a question of making routines and interactions work and the software used to exchange information work. But there may also be legal reasons in some cases. Then we have an ongoing dialogue with SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, about how we can remove such obstacles so that we get the most effective healthcare for our tax money.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-400	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The government's decision to ban gatherings of more than 500 people is a wise and necessary decision in the light of the rapid spread of the Corona virus. Today I have been met with questions from organisers and event managers. They are now working hard to ensure that the decision is followed. There seems to be some room for interpretation of the figure 500. Then I think it is good to take this opportunity to be very clear about it in this House. The question is whether employees, artists etc. are included in the 500, i.e. everyone who is under the same roof. Large performances and events can include a large number of key people. Up to 100 people can work with a performance so that it can be carried out at all. I would therefore like clarification on the 500, so that speculation is avoided.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-405	Madam President, I would like I respect the fact that questions arise in such a situation. This decision was, as Lotta Finstorp says, necessary in order for us to prevent the effects of the Corona virus and the spread of infection. My picture is that organizers and cultural and sports actors join forces behind this and agree that together they will deal with this difficult situation. Of course there may be questions. I do not think, however, that I should go after such an interpretation here. Instead, it may be addressed to the Ministry of Justice, which has issued this regulation. But I can see that the World Cup in Åre, for example, has been cancelled due to both crowd influx and other actors visiting Åre. It is not only about audiences, but also about accredited media that are active in the audience. However, I think that it is best to turn to the responsible department on this issue.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-408	Madam President, I would like The crisis along the Greek border continues. Now we see in various media images of how Turkish military buses migrants against the Greek border police. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven says that it would be completely untenable if migrants entered Europe and Sweden. I quote, "There would be chaos for a long, long time." ..................................................... There is an economic crisis in many of our municipalities, and our welfare is in danger. Many municipalities feel that there has already been chaos for a long, long time. I would therefore like to ask Minister Eneroth what concrete measures the government is taking to avoid this chaos continuing.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-410	Madam President, I would like The crisis we are seeing along the border between Turkey and Greece is, of course, extremely serious. We should remember that it is essentially also about eliminating the causes of the refugee crisis we see in the world. It is about the war and to continue and work tirelessly to actually reduce the acts of war that are taking place. As far as the European Union is concerned, and not least the action taken by the Member State of Greece, it is about ensuring that the right commitment is made to Turkey, that human rights, the Geneva Convention and international rights are respected and that we in the European Union are helping each other. We shall both work together with Turkey on the efforts to be made and, of course, assist with the reception that may be necessary.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-413	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Culture. Sweden has historically been instrumental in anti-doping work – not least through Arne Ljungqvist, initiator of the global organisation Wada, who works to keep sport clean from doping. One of the strongest positions in the so-called Wadakoden Code is that each country's anti-doping organisation should be independent and independent from the sports activities to be reviewed. Unfortunately, Sweden is one of the few countries in the world where anti-doping activities are organisationally directly linked to the Swedish Sports Federation. This risks damaging international confidence in our anti-doping work. We Christian Democrats believe it is of the utmost importance that Swedish anti-doping in accordance with the Wadakoden Code should become organisationally completely independent and independent of the National Sports Federation. We are also exercising on this in Parliament. I wonder if this is something that the government is prepared to support.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-416	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that I share the view that Swedish anti-doping work is very important. It has a high reputation and will of course continue to have it. As soon as Wada adopted the new code, the Swedish Sports Federation started work to review how to have an organisation that meets Wada's requirements. As Pia Steensland says, few countries have the order that Sweden has today. The government is very involved in this work, and for me it is absolutely fundamental that there should be no doubt that Sweden has an independent anti-doping organisation. I had a conversation with Wada's Secretary General Olivier Niggli before Christmas, and he has great confidence in our existing work and for us to be able to deal with the issue in a good way. I also mean that we should see Wada's demands as a floor, not as something we should fight to achieve.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-420	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eriksson. A few weeks ago, Sweden sent SEK 40 million to the World Health Organization, WHO. The money will be spent on combating the Corona virus, especially in countries that do not have very well organised health care. I think it is good that Sweden shows its solidarity and compassion for other countries. Now the virus has spread all over the world; China, Iran, South Korea and Italy are worst affected, but it has also reached our country – and the first death occurred yesterday. In addition, the WHO has classified the corona virus as a pandemic. My question is: how do the Corona virus and the concerns on the financial market and the oil market affect the focus on Sweden's aid?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-423	Madam President, I would like This kind of pandemic and crisis situation in the world has a huge impact on the economy, affecting schools and, not least, health care everywhere in the world. Now that we see that many countries need to pool limited resources – in an often weak organisation – to face the Corona virus, there is a risk that other key areas will be left a little side by side and that insufficient resources will be given to cope with them. This applies, for example, to malaria, which harvests thousands of lives every day, and tuberculosis, which harvests thousands of lives every day. We must therefore be alert and prepared to make further efforts to tighten up health care in countries with a weak health organisation. Otherwise, it will affect both these countries and, indirectly, ourselves in several ways.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-426	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Amanda Lind, who also has sports issues on her table. Today, the report was released by MUCF, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, which has the task of following up on the youth policy objective. In this year's report, based on the 2018 youth survey for young people between 16 and 25, the agency has chosen to highlight young people's leisure time. Leisure activities are an important part of young people's lives, not least the possibility of physical activity. Exercise is an important prerequisite for good health, not only physical but also mental health. The report shows that it is more common to sport outside an association than within one. The rate of death within an association has decreased since 2007. Seven out of ten report that they do sports every week, and two out of ten report that they are also in nature every week. All physical activity is great, but my question to the Minister is: how does the Minister intend to work to ensure that the proportion of people who do not do sports or exercise every week – it is still 30% – is reduced?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-430	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that I am pleased that Ulrika Jörgensen mentions this report; I myself attended a seminar this morning and received the report from MUCF. The report gives us very valuable information on how young people assess their leisure time today. We see, and have seen in previous trends, that there are gaps in which young people take part in both sports and culture. These are equality and equal opportunities challenges. As far as how young sports today are concerned, we see that there is still a relatively stable proportion of young people who either engage in sport or outside, and that is very good – but we will continue to make efforts. For example, we have introduced more sports hours in school and strengthened the funding for the National Sports Federation, and we are also having a discussion with the municipalities about how they can work to make sport and movement more accessible in leisure time. This applies, for example, to collaboration around premises, and the entire work on the development of sports premises is something I work for as a minister of sports.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-433	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Minister Eneroth a question about Arlanda. The Stockholm region is an engine in the Swedish economy. We deliver about 40 percent of bnp annually and also large tax revenues. At the moment, we are seeing a stagnation in the Stockholm region in terms of population growth. Many younger people cannot afford to buy apartments because of the high amortisation requirement and the rather strong mortgage ceiling. I wonder what the Government intends to do about Arlanda and when the decision comes. Arlanda is important for the whole of Sweden, not just for the Stockholm region. We are waiting for a decision on the expansion of Arlanda– when will the decision come? Or is it as the newspapers say, that is to say that you are fighting in the government on this issue?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Kjell Jansson! It is true that we face major challenges in ensuring that all regions can contribute to Sweden's development. The Stockholm region does, of course, but it is fortunate that we also get traction help from the whole of northern Sweden with the massive expansion we see there – not to mention the Öresund region or my own Småland. Sweden stands together. We are not pitting regions against each other, but here we are all contributing both to joint growth and to joint investment. This is generally done in the transport system, with the greatest railway investment ever. This is also done through regional initiatives – not least in the Stockholm region, we make quite large commitments from the state and the region with public transport initiatives and other things. Arlanda has been prepared by the Government, and we have had a Arlanda Council that has looked specifically at Arlanda's development in the future. This is, of course, an issue that we continue to work on in the government, but given the challenges that aviation now faces, it is also the case that forecasts for future flying change quite radically right now.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-441	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eriksson. During today's Question Time, we discussed what is happening in Turkey and what is happening in Idlib, Syria. Things are also happening in Greece. There are a great many people on the run who are now stuck on the border with Turkey as well as on the border with Greece and on the Greek islands. Even in Idlib, many are trapped. My question to the Government is: What more can Sweden do to help the people who are trapped there? These people are somehow in the most fragile moment of life and need our help and that of the outside world. I was at Lesbos myself quite recently and experienced the situation there. I did what I could to help people. There are very many, about 27 000 people, who are trapped there. Unheard of many of them suffer from ill health, and many of them are children. Yesterday came the first Corona case on Lesbos, and many are very worried about what is happening. What can Sweden do, and what can we do now?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is a very important and good question in several ways. We have a large population group in the Idlib area that is extremely stressed, with people who in many cases have been involved in running for several rounds. A total of 3 million civilians need access to food, shelter, clothing and such things. We do what we can from the Swedish side. This year we are planning to allocate SEK 374 million to the Syrian crisis overall. Of these, 40 million are specifically intended for us to get humanitarian aid from Turkey across the border. It has contributed to a UN operation that allows 700 lorries to cross this line every week. There are several ways in which extensive work is being done. However, we may have to make further joint efforts by the international community, where Sweden is strongly involved.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-451	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anders Ygeman. It is no secret that at the moment there is an extensive strain on Swedish society regarding the coronavirus. The Government of Ygeman, of course, has a crucial responsibility as Government Minister to ensure that energy supply is ensured.
i-5tciHWDc7CnSN4v4EFPiXH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question! This is, of course, an issue that has been on my table for some time. Through the Swedish power grid, we have ensured that there is planning both from the Swedish power grid and from the electricity industry to be able to cope with a situation where the coronavirus is a major burden for society. These may include measures such as separating staff groups from each other, allowing staff to work from home or not using public transport by some key personnel. This is a plan that we have had for some time. It should also be said that this is something that is part of the basic mission for Swedish power grids. We have recently had a dialogue with the Authority to ensure that action has been taken, both on the part of the Authority and further out in the industry.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-456	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture Amanda Lind. In September 2017, the Ministry's memorandum on a consultation scheme for questions concerning the Sami people was submitted. Since then, this proposal has gone on a consultation round and had a slightly different reaction. It goes without saying that it is to be welcomed that there will be order and order when it comes to consultation on various issues concerning the Sami people. However, many of the respondents also point to the fact that the proposal by the Government – or by the Minister for Culture – instead of doing as in Norway, for example, where there is a well-functioning consultation system, has also covered regions and municipalities. This risks building up conflicts, both because the proposal is unclear and because it is uncertain which issues it should apply and which should be covered by it. A lot of people wonder what's going on. If something happens, does the Minister of Culture intend to proceed with these uncertainties?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-459	Madam President, I would like The question of a consultation system for the Sami people is an important measure to assure our indigenous peoples the right and the possibility of influence on the issues that concern them. It is true that this work has been going on for a long time. This is because it is important that it should come out correctly and that it is clear how such consultation should take place. It is also important that we have a close dialogue both with different parts of the Sami people – with different Sami organisations – and with stakeholders. We produced a revised proposal, and this was a new consultation round. We have compiled the comments. There were a lot of comments about the importance of municipalities and regions, which are described as part of this consultation system, just as the Sami organisations should have reasonable opportunities to do this. This is something we are currently looking at in preparation. Our ambition is to be able to present a proposal to the Law Council later this spring.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-463	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. The Swedish Parliament has adopted a goal that Sweden should have no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 at the latest. To achieve this goal, major investments and technological leaps are needed. In order to achieve the objectives in the transport sector, we need to increase both the production and use of biofuels. There is also a need for a significant increase in electrification of the transport sector. It simply requires the modernisation of society. We need to change and adapt society so that it is possible to transport itself sustainably. New technologies are needed, and collaboration is needed. My question is about electrification and what the government is doing to ask about Sweden.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-467	Madam President, I would like In fact, for almost a year now we have a new department in Sweden, the Ministry of Infrastructure, which works with infrastructure as well as energy and digitalisation. This describes in a pretty good way what is now happening to Swedish transport infrastructure – we are expanding it, but we are also making sure to connect it and electrify it. It is about biofuels and more efficient transport but also about a rapid implementation of electrification that is currently taking place in Sweden and in the transport sector. We can do this in a situation where we have the largest electricity surplus ever, I think. There has been a decision on investments in renewable energy of SEK 85 billion since the energy agreement was made. This means that we can now set up an electricity commission and implement an electrification strategy and in different ways expand both charging infrastructure and electric roads in the future. There will be a major change in Transportsverige where we support the electrification of the transport sector.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-471	Madam President, I would like This week the very sad news came that the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party in Västerås have decided to close Västerås Airport. This is an airport that is certainly regional but has an important social mission nationally. It is about the ambulance flight, about the freight traffic and about the Swedish Armed Forces' flights. In particular, there is the national pilot training in Västerås. For two years we have been waiting for the regional airport investigation, which is being prepared in the Government Office. In view of what is happening in Västerås and what is happening in the entire aviation industry right now, I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure: Is there any possibility that the Minister might consider speeding up the regional airport investigation, so that fewer airports have to close down as in Västerås?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-473	Madam President, I would like As regards Västerås, this is a decision that has been taken locally and regionally because it is not prepared for the great commitment that an airport entails financially. I also noted that there were business representatives who supported this, along with the majority that existed to close the airport. I think it says something about the challenges we face in terms of both climate change and aviation challenges. That is also why we are now reviewing the regional airport strategy while looking at the future of Arlanda. What we have done is that, quite recently, in December, we commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to specifically study the prerequisites for emergency airports. It is a basis that we see will be needed even more for ambulance flights, rescue flights and other means of air intervention, such as after the fires we had two summers ago. Once that work is done, we intend to be able to proceed with information on regional airports.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-475	Madam President, I would like In 2018, the Swedish Work Environment Authority stopped the use of Protective Mask 90 for police and rescue services, for example, because it lacks CE marking. After the decision, only the Swedish Armed Forces can use the protection mask. Over the past week, several emergency services have seen a need to be able to use Protective Mask 90 against the Corona virus. The other day, rescue services in Storgöteborg and Östra Skaraborg were also granted exemption by the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency wants a general exemption for police, ambulance and rescue services to use the mask. In a submission to the Swedish Work Environment Agency, they write: Sweden is now facing a potential crisis in which Protection Mask 90 could play an important role for social critical personnel. The Swedish Work Environment Authority will not, however, meet MSB, but must apply for an exemption in each individual case. There will be a lot of administration, and it will take time.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-479	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jörgen Berglund, both for the question and for the commitment! This is a fine illustration of the need for more people to help each other. That is what we need to do in society: at all levels, in all activities, we are helping to meet the challenge we face in meeting and preventing the spread of coronaviruses and with the efforts that can be made. I also appreciate the involvement of the rescue services in Västra Götaland, where they looked at what resources were available and whether they could be used. Of course, we have seen the request from MSB. The government is now preparing this issue to ensure that we have better access to protection in the future.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-482	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. In Sweden there are about 50,000 Thais. There are about 100 associations, and many are involved in them. There are also many temples. These temples are usually run by enthusiasts and nonprofits. In the temples, there are also monks. The monks have a tradition of not owning anything but of receiving alms. So they live by living in these temples and on alms and food prepared by individuals who by estimated means, of course, buy food and donate to the monks. Three Buddhist associations in Sweden have now registered as employers to the monks who live in the monasteries. You must then pay both food and housing benefits. So the associations will have to pay for this, and they cannot afford it. There are also Christian monasteries where there are monks and nuns. It is not taxed in the same way. My questions to the Minister are: Does the Minister think it is right to tax benefits for food and housing benefits? I am not in favour of more taxes, but does the Minister think that Christians should also be taxed?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-487	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that I will not be able to answer Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström's question. However, I understand what the Member of Parliament describes. It is important, if I am going to state something in general, that we are well placed for people around our country to exercise their freedom of religion. It is about that regardless of which community you belong to, you should have a good opportunity to do so. There are a little different conditions in the different communities, for example how financial solutions look. I'll take the question forward.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-490	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Tomas Eneroth my question. It is crowded on the tracks, and there is a need for more main tracks. That is why it is good that the government is investing in it. Something that could relieve the Öresund bridge is an Öresundsmetro between Malmö and Copenhagen. Then freight could cross the Öresund bridge and also passenger traffic, not least high-speed trains. It would be able to cope with the expected flooding in the future. There will be more goods and more passenger traffic. It would also be good for the climate. Otherwise, there is a risk that there will be more truck transport instead of rail transport. It would also open up a new labour market region for those living in southern Sweden to be able to commute to both Denmark and Germany faster. My question is: how does the government view the possibility that in future we could have an Öresundsmetro?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-494	Madam President, I would like It is recurring that there are a great many good and good proposals for infrastructure investment that would mean that we reduced climate emissions from the transport sector, tied regions together faster and better, and simplified and enabled better travel and trade. At the same time, I have probably learned over the years as Minister for Infrastructure that such requests are, of course, everywhere, and then we must give priority. The priorities of the current national plan are new main routes. These are important initiatives not least in the Öresund region, which is about connecting the West Link into Helsingborg. Of course, we have also pointed out Helsingborg-Helsinore as a common Swedish-Danish object that we look at a little extra. However, any proposals that increase the potential for reducing climate emissions from the transport sector and linking up regions, we are of course looking at extra interest.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-496	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the presentation quite a long time ago. You lose a little thread when it's been an hour since we talked about this. I wanted to go up in the speaker's chair to point out that the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats here feel the same way on an issue that Maria Gardfjell raised. It is about the exploitation of agricultural land and the protection of agricultural land. It is being exploited at too high a rate. We have presented a separate opinion on a review of Chapter 3. Section 4 of the Environmental Code, where the very balance is struck between an essential interest in society and other factors in the use of agricultural land. The problem has been that the municipalities have seen the paragraph as a rounding mark. At the same time, we want to facilitate limited construction on our own land – perhaps that is why the Green Party has not thought our opinion is good. That's one of them. The second was that we were now told that the Green Party wants farmers to do more for the money. One should not rationalize size, one should take more environmental measures and it should be more eco-friendly – it is expensive to carry out organic production. At the same time, both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and SLU have shown that the direct payments themselves, which must be reduced, have probably meant that agricultural land in marginal areas has continued to be cultivated, not least in the hinterland of Norrland. We feel in part the same as the Green Party here too. We think that we should have more environmental efforts, more target management, more specific support rather than general aid and less direct aid. But to make the calculation go together and for the farmers to really do this, more money has to go into agriculture. Then I hope that the Green Party will be prepared to ensure that more money goes into agriculture. You can at least think of our proposal to remove the employer's contribution for the first three employees and to abolish sickness pay liability.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-501	Madam President, I would like It is certainly interesting to have a Question Time in the middle of the important rural and agricultural debate. The issues of arable land are very important. In fact, I believe that many parties in the Swedish Parliament could agree on these issues. I think that a very important starting point is the study that already in 2013 proposed a tightening up of the plan and the construction process in order to create greater protection of agricultural land. Of course you can also review the environmental code. As we now have a point in the climate action plan to review all relevant legislation based on climate objectives, the environmental code could be reviewed in order to further strengthen the value of agricultural land for producing food. I fully agree with that, but that proposal is already in a government proposal. We in the Green Party control our work in the government. I very much hope that we can agree on those issues. As far as agricultural profitability is concerned, this is a very important issue. I see that there are very many ways of creating increased profitability in agriculture. One way is to carry out organic farming with added value that brings added value to the market. That's something you can pay extra for. We also need to have clearer strategies for agriculture's ability to increase its processing rate.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-506	Madam President, I would like It is good that there is consensus sometimes. I am pleased when I hear the Green Party say that they want increased profitability in agriculture, because that is exactly what is needed. It's the piece of the puzzle that's missing. Unfortunately, however, I am not impressed by the proposal that organic farming and the added value created there should solve the issue of profitability. It requires that it is market-driven, and that is the position that M, KD and SD are driving – not the Green Party and the Social Democrats. One would rather have quota targets on the part of the Green Party and the government. I don't think the calculations go together that way either. Many sources of increased capital inflow into agriculture must be envisaged in order to solve the difficult link that we have now.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-508	Madam President, I would like From the Green Party we see the value of having goals for environmental policy. One of the most important environmental objectives is a non-toxic environment, and organic farming is a direct means of achieving it. We need an agriculture that is not as dependent on intervention as it is today. It's also about vulnerability. I think it is important to see how we can agree. I think that in the work on the food strategy in the future we would have to emphasise further that we have a variety of farmers in Sweden. We have both large conventional farmers on Skåneslätten and organic farmers who are both large and small and who are present throughout the country. This is something that we need to be much better at and not have a one-sided approach to agricultural policy.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-510	Madam President, I would like How do we fish? How should the fish be distributed? Why are we fishing? These are some of the questions I wanted to answer from the perspective of yesterday, today and tomorrow. Yesterday has taught us that fish is a limited resource but still a resource with potential if we protect our waters and seas. Fishing provides healthy food. Fishing gives us living coastal communities, living countryside and jobs. With the development of technology, however, we have managed to achieve more efficient fishing methods that allow us to fish faster and more. Against overfishing, we have introduced quotas, fishing opportunities, fishing rights and, where it has been necessary, even a halt to fishing. Madam President, I would like If we look at fishing today and the first time in this parliamentary term, we see that there was a lot, in my words, about eel, soap and bottom trawl. By eel, I mean that until recently, unfortunately, politicians were also here in Parliament who saw it as a human right to eat the last of the endangered eel. Even jippos were set up to eat eel. Thankfully, there is now insight and a general ban on fishing eel. Only special permits give the right to fish eel, and we Social Democrats also want to introduce with the January agreement a voluntary programme for the repurchase of eel fishing rights in Sweden with the aim of reducing the fishing of the endangered eel. By soap, Madam President, I really mean the problem of eutrophication and, above all, the situation of many of our lakes and seas. Last autumn, what has sometimes been called the right-wing conservative bloc with the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats presented their various budget movements with a continued slaughter and reduction of environmental and climate work. The right-wing conservatives claim to make efforts for cleaner water and seas as they match the government's budget proposal in single cost items for the marine and aquatic environment. On closer scrutiny, however, Madam President, it turns out that measures for valuable nature are massacred with SEK 400 million from the Moderates and nearly a quarter billion from the Swedish Democrats – and the Christian Democrats want to invest just as little as the Moderates and want to cut off SEK 400 million. The various alleged efforts of the right-wing conservatives on fishing and the marine and aquatic environment are completely undermined by the simultaneous removal of resources from wetlands through valuable nature measures. Because we know that wetland becomes ditch, ditch becomes stream, stream becomes river, river becomes river and rivers flow straight into the Baltic Sea. Wetlands are one of the most effective measures to reduce nutrient leakage to the Baltic Sea and stop eutrophication, stop oxygen deficiency, stop bottom death and save repressed fish species. Better environment, cleaner water and the sea, an ambitious climate change that everyone across the country can participate in is a matter of course for us Social Democrats, as was also evident in the budget proposal that we set out in this House in November. By bottom trawl, Madam President, I mean bottom trawling which, although an effective fishing method, is very much discussed from an environmental point of view. Demersal animals and plants are damaged or killed, the species composition on the bottom changes, sediment swirls up and nutrients and environmental toxins are released. The bottling can be swept off several times a year, making it difficult or sometimes impossible for the bottom to recover. With the January agreement and our co-operation parties, we Social Democrats want the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party to develop sustainable fisheries with measures to reduce bottom trawling in sensitive areas in Sweden and the EU. We want to introduce a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas where limited derogations can be granted in the management plan. We want to see measures to support fishermen who change gear. As far as cod is concerned, fishing in the eastern Baltic Sea was halted urgently last year due to concerns about its future. This stop continues this year too. Remember, too hard fishing for cod is a reason! We also have the threat of climate change with heated waters and seas and eutrophication. We need to work on several planes to quickly get back a reasonably viable cod stock. Madam President, I would like Let us look at tomorrow's fishing. We Social Democrats want Sweden to be a pioneer country and an engineering country and constantly want to combine ecological, social and economic dimensions. Innovation, product development and value added provide jobs and profitability. I am convinced that we are only at the beginning of the development of smart, gentle and selective fishing gear. Gear development in itself leads to new jobs. I want us to look from individual quotas and tonnes to jobs, entrepreneurship and living coastal communities. It is true that this debate is about the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's report 11 on fisheries policy, Madam President, but it is worth recalling that there are a lot of policies that are favourable to fisheries policy outside this report as well. I am thinking of Social Democratic policy that the whole country should live and grow, that Sweden should become a fossil-free precursor country and how we get clean water and sea. With the January agreement and our cooperation parties, we Social Democrats want Sweden to be a driving force in the EU for stronger cooperation and for having adapted catch quotas and methods that can provide sustainable fish stocks. We want control to stop illegal fishing to be strengthened, without increased administration. We are introducing camera checks on fishing vessels to ensure compliance with the draft ban. We also want to phase out subsidies that lead to overfishing. We want the competitiveness of sustainable small-scale fishing to be safeguarded. Madam President, I would like Aquaculture is a priority for us social democrats, as is clearly shown in strategies and in the addition of funds. A green and sustainable aquaculture industry contributes to employment in rural areas. The development potential in Swedish aquaculture has been highlighted on several occasions by us Social Democrats, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and the Government. The competent authorities continuously analyse how the testing of aquaculture activities can be simplified. Processing and innovation opportunities, regulatory simplification, technology development and collaboration are taken into account. Beach protection rules are being investigated to provide better conditions for small businesses and for green jobs and thus for aquaculture. Aquaculture will play an important role in the work on the new common strategy for the Swedish fisheries sector that the Swedish Board of Agriculture, together with the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, will develop until 2021. I therefore find it unfortunate that the Left Party, together with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, is making an announcement in this report on aquaculture in particular, given that the government, together with the cooperation parties, has already decided on more far-reaching measures than the announcement contributes. In addition, there is already a recent announcement on the same issue that is currently being prepared at the Government Office. In this case, this will be a battle in the air, a politically meaningless game that will not benefit Parliament's work, the voters or Swedish aquaculture. That's too bad. I and we Social Democrats want to see fresh water and seas for our children and grandchildren too, even more fish on the table in the future, and fishermen fishing. We want to see coastal areas that provide livelihood, more jobs, aquaculture, fishing tourism and experiences, i.e. a vibrant coast and archipelago. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 14 on aquaculture. Apart from this reservation, I support the report.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-529	Madam President, I would like You could almost think it's election time. What was it like? Eel, soap, bottom trawl and maybe rind? It sounded more like election soda, because everything would be a priority, I think about Markus Selin's speech. Madam President, I would like Today, the problems of the world's oceans have accumulated since many decades of environmental larvae have caught up with us. These include eutrophication, acidification, environmental toxins and litter. These conditions mean that the environment is no longer sustainable for either fish or other aquatic organisms. In our vicinity, the problems are most acute in the Baltic Sea. Only around this inland sea are nine countries whose activities on land and in the sea affect in different ways. When discussing fisheries, it is important to bear this in mind. We cannot look at the fish alone; we are talking about what we call ecosystems. Fish also act as greenhouse gases; they ignore national boundaries. Just think of the eel's movements from birth in the Sargasso Sea to our latitudes! It is therefore important that fish be seen as a common resource and a common responsibility, which means that it must be decided at international level. It is therefore reasonable for decisions on fishing quotas and related management plans to be taken at EU level, but it is also important that decisions are followed and respected by all Member States. There may be some other things to wish for there. Of course, fishing has always been of great importance to Sweden with a total of 240 km of coastline. Today, however, several fish stocks are under threat. This is particularly true of the Baltic cod. That is why the EU decided on an emergency stop. The stop has been extended for this year as well. The decision has had many tough consequences mainly for small-scale coastal fishing, which we moderates, like the previous speaker, absolutely defend. In the Riksdag, all parties were behind the decision. That is a good thing, given the long-term consequences of this issue. But it is also good that we agree that decisions should be based on science. It is therefore important for the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea to have access to the relevant facts. Unfortunately, it has begun to discuss whether ICES had up-to-date data when looking at the stop, which also concerned herring. One line that we Moderates pursue is that ICES should be given better opportunities to obtain the necessary and most relevant data on fish stocks. Friend of order may wonder why I'm just talking about Baltic cod, but that's no wonder. The cod caught today is in bad shape. It's small, it's weak, it's thin. We must now do everything we can to give it a chance to grow in size, age and stocks. It is therefore important that, when we look at the management, we also take account of herring, because it is cod's food. This must be combined in these areas. We Moderates are therefore pressing that there should be EU-wide closure areas where fish can play and grow up. We are investing money in the further development of new selective fishing gears. These are some of the questions that the Moderates are pushing. Madam President, I would like As if what I have told you so far were not enough, there is another problematic fact for the fish in the Baltic Sea. It is about poachers in the form of seals and midges. These consume daily quantities of fish, thus posing a potential threat to the recovery of fish stocks. There are even scientists who believe that these two species together catch and eat as much fish as man fishes on the coasts. Adding to the parasite seal mask that attacks cod, it is understood that these species certainly contribute to creating imbalances in the ecosystem. We therefore think it was good that the government listened to us when it came to our proposal to introduce seal hunting. But we believe that we also need to be able to hunt for more mid-range. This is a big problem. Effective management of the cormorants and seals must be synchronised with fisheries management, because they cannot be considered separately. That is when we begin to see a whole in the ecosystem. The EU's Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) stipulates that fisheries should also be compatible with economic, social, employment and food security objectives. But this seems to have gone by the government. When we discuss fisheries policy, I cannot accept my responsibility for not even talking about those who fish. Despite all the fine strategies that the government supports and puts forward, you are noticeably quiet when it comes to fishermen. We don't hear about their situation. Nor do we hear anything about important issues for them, such as the standstill compensation, the transfer of fishing rights and the high average age of fishermen. Another fine objective that exists and is to be achieved is the overall objective of the Maritime and Fisheries Programme. It is about having competitive small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why it is so remarkable that the only thing the Minister answers when we ask questions is: I follow developments closely. It does not help the person sitting in this position literally in the lake. It doesn't help the fish either. It is a question of being credible and also being able to deliver on the fine decisions we lay down. Otherwise, one might actually wonder what the strategies, the fine goals and all fair speech are worth. Another thing that surprises the government's policy is the situation of the country's fish farmers. Here, too, we have well-formulated objectives. Budget money has now even been allocated to the food strategy's action plan. But the trend is backward rather than forward. We lose fish farmers versus what it was like at the beginning. The reason is usually time-consuming and complicated permit processes that the government has not prioritised to solve. This is unfortunate. This means that we are losing jobs, but we are also losing healthy food, which could also be used to reduce eutrophication and the risk of fishing out. Worst is the situation of those involved in algal cultivation. The Aquaculture Coordinator at the Swedish Board of Agriculture says that for different types of aquaculture, up to 40 different permits may be required. As for those who want to invest in the cultivation of algae, there is no regulation at all. It makes them have a long uphill. What we see is usually research projects; there you can get permits temporarily. Unlike the previous speaker, we are very grateful and happy that we have gathered a majority in the committee that is further pressing for this industry. It is important, as the previous speaker said, but then something must happen. Another important issue concerns the conditions for sport fishing and marine tourism. Several socio-economic studies show that tourism is the golden calf in the marine industry and has the highest value. But the basis for protecting it is the same as when it comes to protecting professional fishing and sustainable fishing, i.e. that we listen to science, enter into international agreements, work for good environmental status, do systematic follow-ups – here it is often flawed – and create good conditions for entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like These are questions that we Moderates are working on. Finally, I support our reservations 5 and 10.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-547	Madam President, I would like Eel, soap and bottom trawl! Initially, I would like to welcome the fact that, with the report we are debating, the Moderates have come to two new insights. I thank them for that. Members of Parliament from the Moderates were among the last to want to manifest and eat the acutely endangered eel. I am also pleased to see in this report that the Moderates, with a committee motion, want to end with bottom trawling and switch to selective fishing methods. But then, Madam President, there is the soap, or the eutrophication problem, as I say. Wetland becomes ditch, ditch becomes stream, stream becomes river, river becomes river, river flows into the Baltic Sea. Wetland is one of the most effective ways to stop nutrient leakage and reduce eutrophication, bottom death and oxygen deficiency. With their budget exercise, the Moderates want to continue the slaughter of environmental and climate work. They claim to make investments for cleaner water, for fishing and for the sea, but match the government's budget proposal only under a single cost item. Closer scrutiny shows that measures for valuable nature and thus for wetlands are reduced by SEK 400 million. I, our children, and our grandchildren, wonder: Why, Moderates, why?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-552	Madam President, I would like Markus Selin repeats a budget debate that took place here a few months ago and brings out what he himself wants to highlight. In fact, we beat the government's budget when it comes to water and the investments in the seas, because we have invested more in LOVA money. However, the LOVA money has not been spent since then. We have seen this in connection with monitoring and evaluation. As far as the larger amounts are concerned, we wanted to put an end to the rogue key biotopes registration that took place. It is also a decision that has since been made. The eel is actually a joy, I must take this opportunity to say. We have pushed the question that the eel must also be evaluated together. As it is now, each Member State has its own opportunity to present both one and several eel management plans. My pet horse is also to be evaluated, and it now turns out that the European Union is doing so. We want this to be evaluated together, so that we can see what happens to the eel stock. To my delight, I recently read that SLU's researchers have carried out a follow-up and that since 2011 there has been a positive trend for the offspring. In fact, positive things can happen. But then more is needed; it is about hydropower and other things.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-556	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Malmberg for all the questions. I can answer here and now that the Moderates like to talk and evaluate, while we Social Democrats fund. The Moderates want to cut 400 million kronor from the work for wetlands and towards eutrophication and bottom death. The Moderates want to cut millions of dollars from SMHI. The Moderates want to cut millions off the Chemical Inspectorate. The Moderates want to cut millions of dollars from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Moderates want to cut millions of dollars from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. How, the Moderates, does this save Swedish fishing?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-559	Madam President, I would like I note that the Member opposite me, Markus Selin, chooses not to answer the question I put in my reply at all. I also had further questions in my speech. I think this is important. Somewhere we must respect the fact that the various action plans that we as politicians are pushing to get in place come into place for a purpose. We want to help, develop and take command of this development in different ways. That is when it is so important that we as politicians can also be there to answer. Why isn't anything happening? We can look at the plans today. We have Agenda 2030 that highlights the sea. We have national environmental quality targets that highlight the sea and coastal communities. That was something that Markus Selin highlighted in his speech. We have the food strategy, which also says that this is a food resource. We have to make it grow. Then there is the maritime and fisheries programme. It also says that we must now be able to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. But how can they develop, I wonder, when we really kick their feet away? It is in view of the political stop. It is a consequence of our living beyond our means. We've damaged the environment. It's not just the fish's fault. But they're the ones taking the fall. They are the ones who stand alone today without help and without even the slightest sign of hearing what their situation is like. I am sorry, Madam President.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-565	Madam President, I would like I'll start by pressing. Of course, we support all our proposals. But to gain time, I call for reservation 6 on sustainable fishing opportunities. Cod fishing is not only an important source of economic revenue but also plays a central role in the ecosystem. For a long time, scientists have been paying attention to the situation of cod in the Baltic Sea and the worrying decline in the cod stock. For example, in the eastern cod stock, which is the largest of the two Baltic cod stocks, cod are beginning to reproduce at a much smaller size than before, which is usually a symptom of a stressed fish stock. About 25 years ago the cod were just over 40 centimetres in average length when they began to reproduce. Today, the average height of sexual maturity has fallen to about half. The Swedish Democrats are responsible for regulated fishing. Nothing else is on our maps. We are no stranger to adjusting regulations in both directions to ensure long-term sustainable stocks or to make better use of existing stocks. At the same time, we must pursue a policy that preserves a viable fishing industry in the long term. Yes, new and more selective tools can be developed. That's great. Temporary fishing stops on cod, for example, may be introduced when the situation so requires. We see that the situation of cod in the Baltic Sea is worrying, particularly as regards the eastern stock. The quotas will then be adjusted accordingly. There we are in complete agreement with the Ice Research Council. License hunting on saithe in the Baltic Sea is a good new order that will now start; it is good not least for cod, for example. However, there are scientists who claim that the need is even greater in the Skagerrak because cod is even more threatened there. The aim is to try to save the hard-pressed cod stock there too. The assessment is that chubby seals eat 15 000 tonnes of fish in the Skagerrak and Kattegat in one year. In 2002, it was 5 000 tonnes. This is a marked increase. The increase in the consumption of seals in recent years is a serious threat to cod also on the west coast. This is why fishermen and researchers have wanted licence hunting on chubby seals to be introduced also along the Swedish west coast and mainly along the Bohus coast. Now we will see if there is such a change in the hunting regulation that could allow license hunting even on chubby seals and coves in the Gulf of Bothnia. Norway has a slightly different policy on this. It has been decided that there must not be more than 10 000 seals along the entire Norwegian coast, according to researcher Sven-Gunnar-Gunnar Lunneryd at SLU. There are about as many chubby seals as there are on the Bohus coast. The border park to Koster is the national park Hvaler on the Norwegian side. There the shooting increases while the seals are protected on the Swedish side. In Norway, something has happened to the cod population, says the same researcher Sven-Gunnar-Gunnar Lunneryd, and wants to do something about it. In Sweden, it has not even been seen that anything is happening to the cod population, says the same researcher. Swedish fishing is a sustainable fishing. It is carefully regulated and controlled. We can therefore safely buy Swedish caught fish in confidence that it is delivered from sustainable stocks. It is probably good if consumers get the signal from us politicians that Swedish fish are good food. It is therefore important that Swedish fishermen are not exposed to competitive disadvantages within the EU's internal market. Around the country, voices are rising against the EU's ban on trade in seal products. This is a fact. The ban is strange and seems to be the result of a kind of political game. Shooting animals without taking advantage of the body is not defensible and is certainly not good game care. Historically, meat, skin and fat have been a commodity. I believe that we have a good chance of obtaining an exemption from the trade ban on this subject if we now go on the offensive and push the issue properly in the European Union. At least a number of scientists believe that. We also take great account of both nutrition and research. As I said, several scientists have argued that we need more incentives to hunt seals, because many thousands more need to be shot than today. We should not delete entire industries on the basis of unilateral and rigid positions. We are absolutely against that. We are concerned about the campaign against trawling. The Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that some areas fish with yarn, hooks and cages. We would like this to develop. In the real world, however, trawls are used to carry out effective fishing. If we ban trawling or regulate it too hard, Swedish fishermen will be run bankrupt, in many cases with increased imports from the international market as a result. Of course, some areas should be completely protected. We have no problem with that, but it is important. But our ideological position is that natural resources – it can be wild, forest or fish – should be exploited. In this way, we maintain social contact with nature, maintain knowledge and exploit resources. Fishing is also a major part of our cultural heritage. Catches of fish and shellfish from our long coast, and from lakes, rivers and rivers, are an inalienable part of our Swedish cultural heritage. For the Swedish Democrats, it is also an ideological issue. Natural resources shall be managed. They should be used but not over-used. This applies to fishing to at least the same extent as it applies to our game trunks or to the forest itself. In Norway, aquaculture production is around a hundred times Swedish production. More fish and shellfish are imported into Sweden than what would actually need to be imported if the own opportunities available could be better exploited. For example, regulatory fees are significantly higher than for other activities requiring environmental permits. The permit process for fish farming also varies widely between county administrative boards. The administrative burden needs to be reduced. Currently, several different authorities have responsibility for the assessment and supervision of aquaculture. Better coordination is needed between the authorities responsible for the trials and monitoring of aquaculture. We want to promote and not slow down the development and conditions of this industry. We are therefore pleased that the committee here has a majority in favour of promoting the conditions for aquaculture. New research shows that the cormorant eats at least as much eel as man catches. This was read in the South East on 23 November 2017. Sture Hansson from the Department of Ecology, Environment and Botany at Stockholm University says that you should not underestimate how much eel the cormorant eats. In the Baltic Sea there is competition for fish between humans, birds and seals. This is shown by the study from Stockholm University presented in November 2017. The report also shows how much eel the cormorant eats. The figures indicate that the cormorant eats as much eel as man catches. In the debate that the eel is endangered, fishing and hydroelectric plants are often painted as villains. But Sture Hansson says that we have to assume more that cormorants eat very much eel. His personal opinion is that action is needed against the joints where there are too many joints. It is good both from a management and from a conservation perspective because the joints pollute something huge with their ammonia-corrosive spillage. It devastates entire islands and rocks; there is not a green cone left. But the cormorant is a hard-shooted bird. We want to see extended shielding through the oil ring and spotting of the cut wall, which is a more effective method than shooting a cormorant so that the entire colony pulls away. Then you should also find the joints in the water, because it might dive. In an interpellation debate I had with Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, before the summer, I referred to inventory results that said there were 200 000 – 250 000 skarvindivides. Then the minister said that according to the Environmental Protection Agency there are only 20,000 cormorants. There, I can therefore say, Isabella Lövin said in the debate, that our picture of reality differs considerably. And I can certainly agree with that! According to the report that Svensk Naturförvaltning AB carried out in 2018, on behalf of the County Administrative Board of Kalmar County, there were only 57 231 individuals in Kalmar County plus that year's young people. Consequently, the headlines after the Minister for the Environment became: The Minister for the Environment and Climate Change joined a lot in a joint debate.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-594	Madam President, I would like When I hear the Swedish Democrats talking about sustainability and fishing in the same breath, I react, and I think it echoes empty. The Swedish Democrats want to slaughter Expense Area 20 General Protection of the Environment and Nature. The Swedish Democrats want to massacre the sea, water and environment by a third – just over SEK 4 billion. A quarter of a billion dollars away from the work for wetlands, towards eutrophication, towards bottom death and thus to save cod. Get rid of a lot of money from the Environmental Protection Agency. Away with millions of SEK from SMHI. Gone with half a billion SEK from investments in national parks, nature reserves, nature areas, hiking trails and outdoor activities. Thank you and hello, German sports fishing interest and tourism! I wonder: How does this benefit Swedish professional fishing, Swedish sport fishing, Swedish fishing tourism and our waters and seas? How, the Swedish Democrats? How?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-597	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Selin! There were many questions, and I'll see if I had time to reflect on everyone. When it comes to protection of a valuable nature, we have not invested any money in the inventory of conservation-worthy forests. We won't do it until we see a system that works. We are in favour of continuing tests with structural calcification, which can reduce nutrient leakage from certain types of soils. That is what we have in our proposals. Structural calcification should be highlighted as a measure facilitating nutrient uptake and reducing leakage from agriculture. We are also in favour of drainage in connection with structural calcification. With regard to measures for the marine and aquatic environment, we have the same commitment as the government, and we spend 38 million more than the government over a three-year period on agri-environmental measures. We also invest 30 million more to SLU, also over a three-year period. For several years we have invested most of all parties in efforts in the Baltic Sea, so do not come and say that we do not have any investments for the environment!
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-602	Madam President, I would like One third of the expenditure category 20, over $4 billion – that's what I call a slaughter! Sweden has fantastic conditions for recreational fishing and fishing tourism. Far over 1 million engage in recreational fishing, and recreational fishermen generate nearly SEK 10 billion in the run. Sport fishing and fishing tourism develop the countryside and give us jobs and joy. The Swedish Democrats are a real threat to recreational fishing, fishing tourism and, with this whole slaughter of water, sea and environmental work, also to professional fishing. This is sad. The Swedish Democrats want to slaughter Expense Area 20 General environmental and nature conservation with just over SEK 4 billion and herewith the work for fishing, sea and water. Madam President, I would like How do the Swedish Democrats save Swedish fishing?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-606	Madam President, I would like We've cut down a lot because of what I said about sheltered forest and so on. We have spent all our money on Category 23, where we invest more in all areas than the government, or even. We don't have a single post that's smaller than the government. In that case, one can call a slaughter on Category 23 from the government. As far as trawling is concerned, the Social Democrats in Congress disagreed very much. I know it was 174 – 161 for a trawling ban in general. Jan-Olof Larsson, who was your former representative here, was very upset and thought that then we might as well stop with tractors in agriculture. How does Markus Selin view the division within the Social Democrats as regards trawling?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-609	Madam President, I would like Sweden really has fantastic conditions with the extremely long coastline that we have, where both salt water and fresh water meet land. Whether we are talking about smaller streams, lakes or our seas, there are fantastic opportunities in communities where people for many generations have worked to develop the coastal industries. It can be linked to the tourism industry but also to fishing. It is about innovation and development in so many different ways. It makes me proud to think that we have so many entrepreneurs and innovators who for hundreds of years have both worked to create their own livelihood and have also contributed to creating the conditions for sustainable fishing and the sustainable development of their communities. There is, of course, a great deal of concern these days about quite other issues and viruses that overshadow some of the debate in various ways. But it must not overshadow this debate and the importance of solving a number of future challenges, so that in ten years' time there will be greater confidence in the future in the fisheries sector than there is today and that the industry will still be, perhaps even further strengthened, an important part of Swedish food supply. We are in a really good position, but then we also need to remove some of the obstacles that exist today in order to develop sustainable aquaculture and small-scale fishing. This is important, not least for the great potential for more jobs in our rural areas in terms of cultivation, production and processing. At the same time, small-scale archipelago fishing is threatened. Some of the problems are in difficulty with rules on work tools, profitability and cumbersome bureaucracy, but they are also about the supply of skills and generational changes. That is why it is important not to focus on just some of the points but to see the whole and the need to create sustainability. A recipe for success for many fishermen and entrepreneurs in these areas has been to diversify their activities. Some have started farm shops, quite close to the blue industries, or smokers. You run restaurants or cafes. Simpler rules, smooth licensing processes and good dialogues with government officials are extremely important prerequisites for entrepreneurs in those industries to be able to expand their businesses as well. A food strategy has been adopted in broad and broad agreement, and it has also been about creating the conditions for those industries to grow. There may be some differences in the debate between different parties, but at the same time I see the pride of those advocates who have been up ahead of me in the debate. They are extremely familiar with the problems associated not least with the Baltic Sea and the halt to cod fishing and the closure of the catch of other fish in the future. It is important that we see the opportunities for development in order to save fishing, but just as some previous speakers have raised, it is also about the opportunities for fishermen to develop and be part of creating sustainable fishing. Madam President, I would like Let me mention aquaculture. Aquaculture has a huge potential to create jobs and growth in the country while delivering climate-smart food. Land-based fish farms have a great potential to grow in Sweden. Unlike the Nordic countries, these are less common in our country, and that worries me. To meet the threats of the world's oceans being impoverished on fish, aquaculture can actually be a solution for more fish on our dining tables. Based on environmentally friendly production thinking in the form of closed cycles and vegetarian food instead of fishmeal, fish farming can become a sustainable way of producing fish. Earlier in the debate, we have been dealing with permit processes and announcements that today lie with the government. It is true that the state-of-the-art processes today take a long time. As someone has said before, it can be argued that if it is possible to make a project out of this, it may take a little shorter time but otherwise it takes a very long time. It may make it difficult for investments to be made in Sweden and not in our neighbouring countries. Here it is important for those who want to participate and invest resources in the form of human capital and money to have the opportunity to do so in a credible way. Then it can not be as long as up to six years to obtain a permit and then be allowed to run the business for about four years. These are figures that we often hear in the debate. In order to be able to invest in aquaculture in the long term, authorisation processes need to be shortened and authorisations extended. In order to develop the competitiveness of aquaculture both nationally and internationally, the wording on novel foods in the environmental code needs to be updated. Since aquaculture is classified as an environmentally hazardous activity, companies must seek exemption for their activities and can only grow some specific foods. Only if the regulations in the environmental code are updated will cultivation of novel foods, such as algae, be made possible under the same conditions as mussels, crayfish and fish. But too many entrepreneurs describe that regulations and permit processes today make it expensive, complicated and uncertain to start aquaculture in Sweden, and they are already considering moving their businesses to a neighbouring country where the processes are faster. It's not okay. It takes too long to change this, and today we are making an announcement that addresses the conditions of aquaculture linked to the regulatory framework. In the past, it has mostly been about permit processes. You can talk about simplification many times in the debate without anything happening. It's about the way we can push. Sometimes we say a little sloppy that we have to be a nail in the eye of the person we want to do something, and in a way we can see the announcement that way. We really want to push for the simplification of the rules to move from words to reality. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse Amendment No 2 on generational change and recruitment in the fisheries sector. The average age of fishermen today is high, and the barriers to young or new fishermen wishing to establish themselves are high. It is expensive to invest in both boat and gear, and it is difficult to obtain permission. Unfortunately, in some places there is too little confidence in the future in the industry, not least among small and coastal fishermen. We in the Center Party see the fishing industry as an important industry for Sweden, and we therefore believe that the government should take measures to facilitate generational change in professional fishing. Let me be a little critical, Madam President. I think that the majority text of the committee is a little too lame in its wording. It says that it is in favour of taking certain measures in this direction. That's a pretty vague description, isn't it? I know there will be a strategy for professional fishing, but let us then discuss more than a few steps in a possible direction. There are several of us in the Education Committee who work with skills supply issues and who have previously worked with education policy. It is clear that we are really passionate that many will have the opportunity to have their future livelihood in the blue industries, which are important for creating sustainable fishing or in other parts to contribute to a sustainable future. Madam President, I would like Fishing is a sector of the future, but fishing must take place in a sustainable manner. All three dimensions linked to sustainability must be taken into account. It is about the ecological, the economic and the social. It is therefore a good thing that different efforts are being made in coastal communities. At the moment, there is a debate in the West Coast newspapers in northern Bohuslän about the ban on trawling and what is stated in the January agreement. The Center Party, the Liberals and the Social Democrats have been described as rogue because in the January agreement we have a wording banning bottom trawling in protected areas but with the possibility of sustainable fishing also with trawling in parts of protected areas. This is a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas, but the agreement also describes the possibility that limited derogations can be granted in the management plan. An investigation has been set up, and it includes the whole point of the January agreement. I would particularly like to address those of you who listen to the debate and are involved in the issues. For example, co-government Northern Bohuslän is such a solution that we have in mind when the exceptions are discussed. I just want to get this said here, too.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-628	Madam President, I would like The situation of Swedish fisheries is not what we want to see. I feel that we all agree on this today. How we are going to work on the issue can be a little different, and the complexity of the issue may make it even more difficult to deal with. It is not just a question of allocating quotas; it is also a question of eutrophication, exploitation of our seas, stocks and the collapse of the ecosystem. Many times we alone cannot implement measures, but we need to relate to the European Union and to the fact that we share seas with several countries. A lot has happened since we last stood here about a year ago. It was my first fishing debate, and I've never been so nervous in my life. I said we need to stop cod fishing, and I thought that I will have to say this many times. But pretty soon something happened. It was an emergency stop for cod fishing, and it was quite reasonable. The stop was extended last autumn. It was quite reasonable that we stopped fishing on a species that is so badly exposed. It is also perfectly reasonable that it is a decision that applies to all countries around the Baltic Sea. It is clear that cod will not recover at a rapid pace. There are flashes of light when it comes to the development of the Baltic Sea, but it is clear that what has taken decades to break down will take as long to rebuild. The Baltic Sea needs management plans that allow long-term perspectives. The negotiations on quotas now taking place annually in the European Union, which we are taking part in the committee, need to become more holistic and take into account not only individual quotas individually but also quotas in relation to each other and over time. Today it seems unreasonable that the issue of quotas should be discussed twice a year; once for the Baltic Sea and once for the Western Sea. Then there's nothing more. This does not create the conditions for good decisions and no good understanding of causality. From several quarters, additional restrictions on fishing in the Baltic Sea are proposed. It is a question of shifting the trawl line, and it is a question of limiting the fishing of herring and sprat in order to increase those stocks too, which would benefit cod. It became somewhat abrupt for herring fishing during the spawning period of cod, but the scientists were nevertheless in part positive and felt that at the sensitive time of cod, all measures are of amicable nature. Nevertheless, there seems to be consensus on other measures that could be even more effective. There, researchers from Sweden and Finland have jointly spoken in favour of stopping trawl fishing of herring in the Åland Sea. It is above all large industrial fisheries instead of coastal fishing that are active and take up large quantities before the herring's own spawning season. That's what gets in focus. Researchers at SLU have said that it is problematic that we bring up spawning herring because it does not get the opportunity to develop and we then get less mature fish that have the opportunity to reproduce and live on. At the same time, we hear the coastal fishermen testify that it is becoming less and less herring for them to fish. Of course, this depends to some extent on the quotas and how we distribute them, but it is also because large quantities of industrial fishing are taken up at sea rather than the fish being allowed to enter the coast. The removal of the trawl line and the closure of herring fishing in the Åland Sea in accordance with the recommendations of the research are two measures that the Left Party sees as beneficial and would not have the same negative consequences for coastal fishing. That is why I am in favour of our Amendment No 12, which deals with this very issue. The equation here is simple: no fish, no fishing. We need to look at our stocks and the ecosystem of the sea in order to be able to talk about fishing in ten years' time, especially in the Baltic Sea. In the end, it boils down to what type of fishing we want in Sweden and if we manage to look to the whole. Do we want, first and foremost, large-scale industrial fishing, which takes up large quantities at sea and lands it in the big ports, sometimes other Denmark, where the fish are then ground down to fishmeal that goes to animal feed, for example, for salmon farms in Norway and thus eaten by salmon that we then eat? If we think that's reasonable, we're on pretty good track. On the other hand, coastal fishing is largely carried out with passive gear, and the fish is landed locally – perhaps even in the home port – and can be purchased in local shops. It is processed on site and sold in Sweden for direct consumption. It is a fishery that is an important part of rural development and the opportunity to live and work in our smaller towns along the coast. If we think it is a more reasonable way forward, well, then we all realize that we have a lot to work with. Since I have time left and the rest of you have talked about eel, I thought I'd take the opportunity too. The eel is a fascinating species with a long and complex life cycle of up to 85 years. The long life span and the large distances the eel moves across make the dangers many, and many of them are man-made. A major threat is the barrier in the watercourses but also the continued fishing. The Council of Ministers decided in 2018 on a three-month fishing ban for the eel during the period 1 August to 29 February. The Council has then taken a decision to extend this to 2020. In the run-up to the last Council meeting, the Left Party pointed out that the eel closure should be improved, not just further extended, because the restrictions imposed by the Council have two obvious problems. One is that the period of closure, which each country can set at any time during the designated seven-month period, is set for months that have a low impact. HaV itself has said that their goal is to find a period of closure that gives as little effect as possible – quite counterproductive. The second is that while eel fishing in Sweden is covered by the Commission's closure period, the fishing for glass eel in Biscay, which takes place in the spring, falls outside the closure period. Biscay is an important area for eel because it receives about 90% of all glass eels that migrate to Europe. The solution to the second problem could have been to extend the closure period further, but it would have given the opportunity to put a stop to fishing in months when no eel is landed at all. It is reasonable to set reduction targets instead because the eel is not included in the TAC. After all, the advice given to the Commission by ICES in practice means a stop to fishing, and should we now do as many have suggested and listen to science, this should also apply in the case of eel. A first reduction target of 50% followed by further reductions in fisheries until we reach zero or see significant improvements for eel is a possible way forward.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-648	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has negotiated and in this report, together with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and others, wants to make an announcement on aquaculture. This is despite the fact that the government has decided on more far-reaching measures than the announcement contributes and despite the fact that there is already a recent announcement by the Government Office that is better. I wonder what is causing the Left Party to negotiate with the Swedish Democrats and make this spectacle. How does it benefit Swedish aquaculture, our voters and parliamentary work?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-650	Madam President, I would like I think that the Left Party, like all parties in parliament, is interested in getting its policy through. I don't think it's that weird. You can call it play if you want, Markus Selin. I thought that's why we were here, but of course I might have misunderstood things. It happens sometimes. Of course, we think this is a good announcement. That's why we do it. That you think yours is better isn't really weird, either. It would have been very unpleasant otherwise, I think.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-652	Madam President, I would like Aquaculture is a priority for us social democrats, as is evident in strategies and in the increase in funds. A green and sustainable aquaculture industry contributes to employment across the country. The development potential in Swedish aquaculture has been highlighted on several previous occasions by us Social Democrats, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and the Government, so it is a pity that the Left Party organises this stunt. Why is the Left Party doing this, and – listen! – What part of the Swedish Democrats' proposal is the Left Party satisfied with?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-655	Madam President, I would like I still think it's a bit festive that the Social Democrats are standing here talking to the Left Party about making political jippos. You question us because we cooperate with the Right when you enter into an agreement – no office, a JÖK – that pursues more right-wing politics than the Alliance did when it conducted right-wing politics. When the Social-Democrat claims that I would somehow get in the wrong boat, I think that perhaps the Social-Democrat should look at himself and his politics and think about which boat he is in and whether he has really got in the right boat. I think you can think about that.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-657	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the Christian Democratic reservations, but for time to come, I only support reservation No 3. I have been sitting all afternoon listening to debates, including one on, among other things, the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden. I could link it to our debate now, as fishing is a basic industry and an important part of our self-sufficiency. The debates have been topical and interesting. I think that the debate on fisheries policy is moving in the right direction on several points. In professional fishing, the pelagic system of individual transferable fishing rights, TFC and ITQ, is a success. The pelagic system – i.e. fishing in the middle layers of the sea of herring, mackerel and the like – has led to strong wage increases, better working environment and new boats. It has attracted young people, thereby rejuvenating the fishermen. In addition, conditions in the fish processing industry have improved considerably. Long-term contracts with fishermen guarantee an even flow of fish to the factories. The operation has thus become more even, efficient and profitable. One important reason why the system works so well is that there have been coastal quotas. Now it is time to introduce similar systems as for pelagic fisheries for demersal fishing – that is, fishing near the bottom of cod, shrimp, crayfish and several species. The Maritime and Water Authority should be given the task of implementing a system change that benefits demersal professional fishing. There are facts that point to the need for permanent transfers also in demersal fisheries. We would then be rid of quota boats that are at berth and therefore not used for fishing, and fishermen would have a strengthened legal position with better planning possibilities and improved profitability. As it is now, a balance between the structure of the fishing fleet and what can be fished in the long term is hindered. Madam President, I would like As far as rejuvenation of the fishermen's profession is concerned, there is the reason why young people do not get along and become fishermen as much as we would like in the negative propaganda that is going on against Swedish professional fishing, along with the enormous regulatory offensive that characterises the fisheries policy. Swedish professional fishing is a world leader in gentleness and selectivity and should be commended, not criticized. The control is almost complete, and there is also talk of camera surveillance – what is normally used in law enforcement or in the prevention of accidents. In the Government Declaration of 21 January 2019, the Prime Minister said: The question is which fishing Prime Minister meant. Or was it Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin who, on the basis of her delusions, demanded that the Prime Minister say so? The January agreement's view on bottom trawling in marine protected areas is de facto. Marine protected areas have effective protection against fishing based on the purpose of the protected areas. Let us, once and for all, remove the blind spots from our eyes and understand that the bottom trawl fishing that is going on does not have the negative consequence that several Members here in the debate have indicated. There is a trawl limit three or four nautical miles into the sea. Within it it is prohibited to fish with bottom trawl. However, there are some exceptions in protected areas. In these so-called migration areas there is a test before fishing starts, and selective gear is used. We have 300 marine protected areas in Sweden. In 30 of these areas it is bottom trawled. Most shrimp fishing takes place in Kosterhavet. In Gullmarn four vessels fish 20 days a year. In the Baltic, some bottom trawling takes place in protected areas. The cod problem in the Baltic Sea is not due to overfishing, according to an overall scientific assessment. Deterioration of the marine environment with large oxygen-free areas and eutrophication plus lack of functioning seal management are some reasons. Another reason is a large population of interstitial cormorants. In meetings with fishermen from the east coast, I hear despair that so little is being done about seal and cormorant problems. The seal and the cormorant in Sweden are said to eat 200,000 tons of fish each year. This figure may not be on the decimals right, but I have got it from a recognised source. Madam President, I would like To anyone who claims that we have overfishing, it is also important to say that 78 percent of all fishing opportunities allocated last year were in accordance with MSY, maximum sustainable yield. The fact that we have low quota utilisation is due to the fact that Sweden has too few fishermen, which may sound astounding to many who think we have overfishing. For example, in 2019 only half of the quota for Norway lobster was fished in the Western Sea. This is a waste of a national resource. Swedish fishing is a national asset and a basic industry – not a national burden. Through regulatory facilitation and a system that allows permanent transfers in demersal fisheries – that is, fishing close to the bottom – there will be increased profitability, and with increased profitability there will also be a rejuvenation of the corps. Swedish demersal fishing is world class in terms of selectivity, gentleness and sustainability. New gear is constantly being developed by fishermen, with, for example, so-called flying trawl doors that do not touch the bottom. A general ban on bottom trawling does no good at all, but only causes worse conditions for Swedish fishing, which is a world leader. Is it better to leave fishing to the fishermen of other nations who fish less kindly? The proposal to ban bottom trawling has for one year led to investments in west coast fishing approaching zero.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-674	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 7 but support all reservations. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the report has simplified exercise treatment, which means that not all Liberals' proposals have been dealt with here. Madam President, I would like The oceans are the heart and lungs of the earth. A swarm of life beneath the surface is a prerequisite for everyone's nutrition and air. Well-being seas are also a prerequisite for solving fate issues such as world poverty and climate threats. Unfortunately, the oceans are threatened by litter, while fish stocks are threatened by too aggressive, large-scale fishing. If the seas are to function as significant renewable resources, they must be exploited in the long term and sustainably through responsible management. Fishing must remain within the framework of scientific assessments of the stocks' acceptability. We in the Liberals always want to emphasise the importance of sustainable farming and fishing. Eco-friendly fishing can be rewarded by a higher allocation of fishing quotas so that we create incentives. The environmental requirements to be set should, for example, cover the type of fuel and gear used in fisheries. Sustainable fishing is an important objective of Liberal fisheries policy. Many people can testify to changes in the stock in their local environment, not least in the Baltic Sea – how fishing has been affected over time. Yesterday I received e-mails from a concerned person who lives out in the archipelago and was very worried about what the development has been like for a very long time. There is concern that large operators are vacuuming the sea on fish, which then goes to feed. It is clear that we need to address these concerns and do all we can to achieve sustainable development. Madam President, I would like After all, part of the use of water is aquaculture. I have noted here in the debate that many different views have been expressed on what is the problem and what is the opportunity. The development potential of the Swedish aquaculture industry has been highlighted on several occasions by the committee. Particular attention has been paid to the need for smoother licensing processes. And the committee has previously welcomed the mission to the Swedish Agriculture Agency to analyse how the testing of aquaculture activities can be simplified while maintaining environmental protection. In terms of the aquaculture industry's conditions, it is important to point out that aquaculture is a priority in, for example, a food strategy for Sweden – more jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. The measures will further develop Swedish aquaculture and the promotion of aquaculture through coordination of the Swedish aquaculture industry in order to create a long-term sustainable and competitive food chain. Further development shall take into account in particular the opportunities for aquaculture processing and innovation, as well as promoting regulatory simplification, technological development and collaboration. The Food Strategy 2020 – 2025 amounts to SEK 122 million with an additional investment in 2020 of SEK 114 million. Within the framework of the Food Strategy, up to 2025 funds are allocated for a so-called aquaculture package with the aim of further developing the Swedish aquaculture industry. We particularly welcome the emergence of entrepreneurs in the sector that contribute to food production and also to solutions to some of the industry's challenges with sustainable fish feed, reduced antibiotic use, spread of infection and genetic risks. Madam President, I would like Recently, at a meeting with people who have a great deal of commitment to aquaculture, I noticed that the environmental impact of aquaculture must also be included in the development. We must not duck because there may also be environmental challenges. Therefore, the innovative force has also focused its attention on land-based systems. In land-based systems, we particularly welcome the development of circular systems where manure water can be used in agricultural production and thus limit eutrophication problems. Another major challenge that we Liberals want to highlight, in addition to what I have already mentioned here, is, of course, the place issue that is important for aquaculture. Perhaps the site issue can find new solutions, for example in land-based systems. Of the investments in the so-called farmers' package, an investment of 7 million annually is made in aquaculture. Madam President, I would like Another issue that is important in this context is beach protection rules. Strand protection rules have been debated in a previous debate, but I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that I now understand that the issue of wetlands was linked to whether they are wetlands or inland lakes. The beach protection rules are included in the review of the Strandskyddsutningen. I note that it is a central and important issue that we facilitate the establishment of wetlands, given their importance. It should be easier to build beachfronts in areas with low exploitation pressures, and better conditions for business, tourism and green industries will be created. Of course, it is also important in the aquaculture sector that these issues should also be addressed in the area of beach protection. A green and sustainable aquaculture industry can contribute to rural employment. Aquaculture will play a central role in the work on the new common strategy for the Swedish fishing industry that the Swedish Board of Agriculture, together with the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, will develop until 2021. In view of all the points made in the report, I have a little question about the announcement supported by a majority in committee. I would like to hear what measures are being taken. Reduced hassle and simplification are part of the work. There's funding. There are a number of missions to various authorities. But if you want to make a contribution – I think many of us want to listen to any further proposals – it would be interesting to hear what it is the government will next take on in order to improve opportunities for aquaculture. Madam President, I would like Liberals want to see sustainable fishing, sustainable management of the seas and sustainable farming.
i-Wfo52tHhCkHzBKecq5v4tT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina Lundström, for your speech! A large part of the speech was on aquaculture. That is why I asked for the floor. I think it is very important that we know what we are talking about, because we are constantly raising aquaculture in very positive terms. We are talking about the potential for development, and there is a potential for development, but we need to do the right things. The Alliance government introduced an aquaculture strategy in 2012; then it was in place. It expires in 2020. We see here an opportunity to export sustainably produced fish, to alleviate problems with eutrophication, to cope with depletion and also to have domestic food production. But what we see is that the development potential, which everyone is talking about, is falling steadily. In 2014 there were 109 fish farmers, according to the statistics. In 2018, four years later and the last reported figure, there were 70 fish farmers. You understand how important it is that something happens and that we do the right things, that we clear up the regulatory simplifications and permits that need to be made. Otherwise we lose competitiveness here. Who dares to invest in aquaculture with this uphill? That is my question to Nina Lundström.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-694	Madam President, I would like I share the view that there is a need for an evaluation, which Betty Malmberg makes many times in these debates. An important question is also what we want to do in order to achieve the improvement in which I still feel that the whole committee is involved. I have not heard anyone in this debate who has said that aquaculture is unimportant. On the contrary, every speaker has been up and talking hot for why it is so important. When there is a current announcement that is about reviewing the rules and there is a new announcement that is about reviewing the rules and regulations, I am curious and very interested to know what kind of communication it is about. I have listed the budget, the long-term and short-term funding, the packages that exist, the work of the Agriculture Agency, the coordination between authorities and the rules that are currently under review. In order for us to move forward in making even more improvements, I would like to hear in this debate what we want to achieve in substance. I haven't heard that yet. There is one issue that has not come up here – we Liberals have not highlighted it in the past either, but I take the opportunity to highlight this – namely the issue of place. It may possibly be linked to many different factors, but it is an important issue that I would like to highlight. I hope that together we can continue to find issues that will allow us to move forward. Then my question, which has not become clear after this discussion, remains what the government is now expected to deal with, so that we all know what it is about.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-700	Madam President, I would like I have to say to Nina Lundström that on our part it is largely a matter of frustration that nothing is happening. That's where there's a big problem. I know that Nina Lundström, a Member of this House, is also keen on this issue of objectives, strategies and evaluation, and that she has a good analytical capacity and competence. But we need to move from words to action. That's where the chain breaks. And it's been broken for a long time. I get quite allergic to the fine, beautiful words and objectives and that nothing happens anyway. Now the government is dedicating money and funds, for this year or if it is for next year. But what will the SEK 14 million be used for when the regulations are not in place? What is it that makes you not take this on? And what causes fish farms to be moved to Åland? There is a problem that one does not immerse oneself in. It's unfortunate. During this intermediate period, a lot of work and energy is wasted. And we're not getting these entrepreneurs that we're talking about. We don't get the healthy food. It's there somewhere it's flawed. I will readily admit that I also experience frustration because it does not go from words to actions. My view is that the announcement will be another pressure on the government. And I hope the message goes forward too. Money in all honor. But that money cannot be used if the regulations are not even in place and if the algae growers are to wait six years before they are told.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-706	Madam President, I would like I think everyone in this House can feel frustrated that things are not going fast enough. However, in order to move forward in the debate and, above all, with the solutions, I think we need to be very careful with the presentation of what is to be done. As I read the budget proposal, I note, like Betty Malmberg, that there is a good basis for monitoring developments, not least in aquaculture. But there is also a great deal of detail, including in the report, about what has actually been done. Money is usually a critical factor. We all know that. Missions to the authorities are also an important factor. There's a lot more to it. And I've played another important question about the place. What else is to be addressed? I think the announcement is very fuzzy. I understand and appreciate the commitment behind it. But on the basis of the text that exists, I cannot figure out what the mission would lead to. It's about getting to the problem of rules, but what questions should be addressed? I think it is important that the debate continues. I also believe that this is a question of innovation and entrepreneurs, often very small actors who do not have large resources. But if we are to improve conditions, we need to be clear about what else needs to be done. I appreciate the commitment, but I myself am pleased that much has been done, as described in the report. Of course, the Liberals and, above all, Lars Tysklind, who is our Nestor in this area, will also come back in many different contexts and also to the Riksdag with further proposals. I welcome the commitment. It's lovely.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-713	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 14, which the Green Party supports together with the Social Democrats and the Liberals. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report. The Left Party usually beats its chest and claims that they think about the environment. Last time I debated in this House, the Left Party spoke about the fact that the Green Party's demand for the protection of biodiversity in the forest was poor. So it's happened again. The Left Party has jumped in the same boat as the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. It's a boat that's grounded. I'm saying the Left Party has been fooled. The Left Party has signed up with other parties and has received a much less radical policy than the government has already decided on and above all that we in the Green Party want to improve with broader support here in Parliament. Aquaculture is a priority. In the work on the food strategy, the Government has set aside funds for the aquaculture package with an additional investment of SEK 7 million annually. The aim is to further develop sustainable aquaculture. The Green Party wants to see more entrepreneurship. We believe that government investments in aquaculture should be directed towards best practice in the future. Svenskt Sigill eco-labels the best land-based fish farms in Sweden, Farmfish, and places demands on animal care, on the origin of the fish, on sustainable feed that does not create depletion, on growth-promoting hormones and GMO feeds not being used, on reduced or no use of antibiotics and on the slaughter to be carried out so that the fish is not stressed. Farming takes place in closed systems. What the fish loses when it is fed and the fish's own feces do not end up in the open sea; it is taken care of and used as fertiliser in fields. It's a cycle. There is a need for more entrepreneurs who contribute to food production and with solutions to the major challenges facing the industry. Land-based fish farms where fertilising water can be used in agricultural production in circular systems reduce eutrophication of lakes, watercourses and the sea. It is currently the best model for aquaculture. The place is therefore important, just as Nina Lundström mentioned. Recently, other things have also happened that benefit and bring advantages to aquaculture. Among other things, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has developed a checklist for new entrepreneurs in the sector. With it you also have a little better control of the permit process, which means that it takes less time to get through the permit round. It is important that we have a sustainable aquaculture industry. It will contribute to employment in rural areas. Several parties here advocate fish farms in open cages in the sea that contribute to overfishing and eutrophication and push for the abolition of coastal beach protection rules. It's distressing. It is particularly distressing that the Left Party is doing so. The Moderates want to go even further and propagate the fish farms that have been closed for environmental reasons. They have been totally devastating to the coast off Härnösand, where Åland fish farmers have previously violated environmental rules. Madam President, I would like The first word I spoke in my life was the sea. I grew up in Örnsköldsvik, and when my parents had rented a summer cottage in Nordingrå and we got there the first time I didn't say mom, not dad but the sea. In Nordingrå a ten was placed under a bunker on the bridge, and the fisherman delivered freshly caught herring. There we were on the bridge to see the big white ideas swimming around. We ate grilled herring for lunch. In the city, in Örnsköldsvik, the sea was dead. In the early 1980s, I took stinking bottom samples and protested against Modo's emissions. The sea was a dump and still suffers from severe amounts of environmental toxins. Although the fish has now returned to Öviksfjärden, it cannot be eaten for a long time. Madam President, I would like We're gonna talk about fishing, and here I am talking about the sea. Ecosystems are in imbalance, and we humans have a great debt to it. It is also we humans who can change it. Life in the sea has been affected. Then, in turn, professional fishing has been affected, and recreational fishing. We must stop the leakage of nutrients, put an end to eutrophication and stop the bottom death. We must quickly halt climate change because warmer water is driving the bottom death. We have stopped cod fishing in the Baltic Sea, but we did so only when the stocks crashed. It is extremely sad that we have had to resort to this powerful measure, to close down fishing, but there was as well as no other way out. Politics has been alerted to the signals for a long time but has not acted enough on them in time. I do not think that we have been sufficiently clear from the political point of view as to what fisheries we want. We've somehow run with double command. On the one hand, we say that we want to protect the close coastal fishing, the fishing for food fish with smaller boats. On the other hand, we control the decisions we have taken against large boats out in the lake that can effectively make money by taking up large quantities of fish that then go to fishmeal without taking too much fuel and working time. But now we have to look forward, create healthy seas and change fisheries policy. Tage Danielsson said that if you refuse to look back and do not want to look forward, you have to watch out. I think it is important to read a little about the history of fishing in Sweden. The marine environment institute has written a report called A nutrition in the service of the nation. It goes way back in time but is very good, because you get a good look back and understand how it worked once upon a time. In the January agreement we have several points: stopping bottom trawling in protected areas and camera control. It's really needed. Fishing should be done according to agreed quotas, but investigative journalism shows that the controls are inadequate. Now the camera control system needs to be rapidly developed. It gives the credibility that is needed. Coastal communities are quite rightly protesting. Cods have crashed, and Baltic herring no longer runs along the coast. This has alarmed coastal fishermen and anglers for several years. At the same time, large-scale industrial fishing is taking place at sea where the catch is ground down to feed salmon farms in Norway. The County Governors of Skåne, Blekinge and Kalmar have proposed to stop large-scale feed fishing. The EU's fisheries policy allows direct action to be taken. Article 8 provides for the closure of recovery areas, spawning areas and future spawning areas. Article 17 provides for the allocation of fishing opportunities where there is the least impact. Article 20 allows the trawling limit for large-scale fishing to be moved. We must protect ecosystems and Baltic herring, peace deep areas at sea where Baltic herring winters and get to a vibrant coast and archipelago. What happens to all jobs? asks the flounder. Yes, what jobs do we want? A few employees on large vessels or a host of jobs in small businesses in the areas of fishing, outdoor activities and tourism? We need to dare talk about this path. The limitation of the fleet must be guided by the extent to which fish ecosystems can deliver. That must be our goal. And then we need to strengthen ecosystems so that they can deliver more fish in the future. Ecosystem-based management is usually associated with a number of principles: Taking into account links within marine systems and between sea and land Taking into account interactions between social and ecological systems 中 apply adaptive management Use the precautionary principle to promote sustainable use Support the active participation of stakeholders and have a good dialogue. All fisheries should be based on ecosystem-based management. This is precisely the question we should ask the scientists at ICES next time: how do we get ecosystem-based management?
i-24QdA8zrQruw4FsgSKX632	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the speech! I am convinced that fishermen are at the very moment in what the honourable Member says – that we should preserve fishing and that it should be sustainable. That is what the fishermen want, so there is no contradiction. I would ask the honourable Member to answer a question that might measure the interest in supporting professional fishing, if you wish to do so. We have had a ban on cod fishing in the Baltic Sea since the summer, and it is extended this year. The member's party is the party in the Swedish parliament that is most negatively affected by professional fishing. Now the honourable Member has the opportunity to change that image. The fishermen who fish cod have been compensated by the Member's government, with the closure of cod fishing, from July to December of approximately SEK 10 000 or SEK 15 000. As Betty Malmberg mentioned, they sit in the lake, so to speak. In six months it is therefore a compensation of 10 000 or 15 000 SEK. How does the honourable Member want to work to ensure that fishermen who have been involved in the closure of cod fishing have a better economic situation during the stop?
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-747	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt, for your comments and questions! I assume that fishermen want sustainable fishing. It is their opportunity for both livelihood and income that there are fish in the sea. It's obvious. However, it is not always the case that the debate in the industry has been such that they have understood that we must listen to research and understand the problems that fishing itself contributes to in terms of out-fishing and, not least, wrong catches and things that have been delivered. For my part, I strive to have a good dialogue with fishermen. I have been in both Halland and Gothenburg and talked to fishermen and had good dialogues. I believe that much of the image of the Green Party has been spread by Mr Utbult's party and other parties here in Parliament, not by the fishermen themselves. What is important in the future is that we now have a new period within the EU, and then we will also have a new fisheries policy in place. Then it needs to be ensured that the systems that exist within the EU's fisheries policy and the ambitions we have with regard to Swedish co-financing are well designed. I can imagine finding both long-term ways to continue to be a fisherman and ways to stop fishing.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-751	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her reply. I asked the question whether the honourable Member was interested in supporting professional fishing and trying to influence her Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin, on the issue of compensation for fishermen when there is a closure of cod fishing in the Baltic Sea. It can't be more concrete than that. I would like an answer to the question whether the honourable Member is interested in improving the situation of fishermen at all. That is my specific question. Thus, a fisherman who is involved in a cod stop in the Baltic Sea or elsewhere will not receive an unemployment benefit. They won't get an unemployment fund unless there's ice or a storm at sea. That is why the compensation is so small, 10 000 – 15 000 SEK for six months. Who here, or who in our society, would accept it and make it on that sum? There's no one to do that. Therefore, they strive and struggle very hard to cope with their situation. Perhaps there is an opportunity for the honourable Member to encourage, for example, the municipalities, as I do myself, to remove the dock dues for fishermen. They pay the port fee when the boats are in port even though they are not allowed to fish. That is quite a lot of money, at least for a fisherman who has 10 000 – 15 000 kroner in six months. I would ask the honourable Member to make an effort to ensure that she wishes these fishermen, who are affected by this ban on cod fishing, well.
i-3b5a611a48941ba3-755	Madam President, I would like I think that Mr Utbolt is insinuating both the one and the other when it comes to what I think. I can say that I am very interested in these issues. Nevertheless, as the first Vice-President of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, I must try to focus on influencing the right minister, Jennie Nilsson, who is responsible for this issue. In fact, we have discussed this issue as recently as Wednesday with Jennie Nilsson's Secretary of State. So it's not a question that we're not interested in if you think so, Roland Utbolt. What is very important in this area, but also in the field of agriculture, which we discussed earlier, is that companies in these sectors that work with green and blue industries often have very tricky conditions because there is uncertainty about production, opportunities for development and other side income. It can simply be very difficult to be an entrepreneur in this area. If you are an entrepreneur, it can also be difficult to link in the first place with job security policy, so to speak. This is therefore an area in which we need to take a stronger approach, not only in the case of fishermen, but also in the case of all entrepreneurs in both the green and blue sectors.
