i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-5	Madam President, I would like Ann-Sofie Alm has asked me whether I intend to promote the status of all blue-light personnel and, if so, how I intend to act to do so. In addition, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me whether I intend to classify fire stations as protective objects. I would like to start by repeating what I said to Ann-Sofie Alm in December when we last debated these issues. It is totally unacceptable that those who exercise important social functions and have the task of helping and protecting others are subjected to violence, threats or harassment. It is, by extension, an attack on democratic society. The criminal protection of these groups must be effective and strong. On 1 January this year, the new crime of sabotage against blue light operations came into force. It is punishable by a criminal offence to attack or otherwise interfere with the police, rescue services or ambulance services if the act is liable to seriously impede or impede emergency or law enforcement activities. Documents covered by the new crime include violence and threats to bluelight personnel, including rescue personnel, and to persons assisting bluelight operations. Civil protection personnel have thus been given even greater protection in criminal matters than was the case before the amendment. Whoever commits this crime can go to prison for up to life. This is a very clear signal on the part of society that these socially important functions must not be attacked. In addition, the Government has in recent years taken several legislative measures to strengthen criminal law protection against violence, threats and harassment. Among other things, the scale of penalties for some serious violent crimes has been tightened. Protection of privacy has also been strengthened and modernised, for example by extending the criminalised area of illegal threats. Having said that, there must be effective and strong protection both for the person exercising authority and for the person performing socially useful functions without doing so. As the government has stated, the question of which societal functions require enhanced criminal protection and how such protection can best be achieved requires further investigation. This investigation has now begun. On 14 May this year, I appointed a special investigator to look at, among other things, those issues. In particular, the investigator shall consider whether there are grounds for introducing new offences or whether enhanced criminal law protection for public utility functions can be appropriately ensured, for example, by extending the professional categories covered by the special protection associated with the exercise of official authority. The investigator shall present his/her conclusions by 12 November 2021. As regards the question of whether I intend to classify fire stations as protective objects, I would like to say the following: certain civilian and military objects may be decided as protective objects in order to be given enhanced protection against, among other things, sabotage. This possibility includes buildings, other facilities and areas used or intended, inter alia, for the management of civil protection. It is the County Administrative Board that examines questions about this.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-13	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, once again. It has now been four years since our rescue leader Krister Karlsson died in a violent accident on the E6 outside Munkedal. Rescue Service My Bohuslän was on a mission and had with heavy vehicles blocked off the rescue area. A car driver, sober and sane, forced the lockdowns and drove Krister to death. Krister's partner marin and their common daughter only now begin to live in the present. The driver received SEK 11,000 in daily tickets and a few months' driver's license. Madam President, I would like It must be much more difficult to kill a person who is in the service of society than to be belittled by a penalty as if it were a simple traffic accident. Everything else will be seen as a mockery of the survivors. Morgan Johansson has the power to change this, Madam President. I think that the new law on the offence of sabotage against bluelight personnel is a step in the right direction. It was introduced in January, and the hopes were and are high that there will be order. Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister stated that whoever commits this crime can receive up to life imprisonment and that this is a very clear signal from society. I agree with that, and you would like to think that it also works that way in reality. But the application of the law leaves much to be desired. Despite a large number of threats and violence against civil protection personnel, the outcome has been that some cases have been completely dismissed, a few have led to probation and a few have led to conditional sentences. There are 15 000 firefighters in Sweden – 10 000 part-time and 5 000 full-time. These are 15 000 people who go to work every day with their lives as an effort to make sure that the rest of us are safe. I do not think it is too much to ask that they be given respect and respect back and that they be given official status. Parking guards, passport controllers, taxi drivers, train commanders, security guards and security officers all have special protection under Chapter 17. Section 5 of the Criminal Code, i.e. official status. I do not want to belittle any of the other professions or put them against each other, but it is very remarkable that firefighters and rescue workers are not covered by enhanced protection. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister can mention a factually justifiable reason why firefighters, unlike these other professions, should not enjoy the protection of official status.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-22	Madam President, I would like Generally speaking, we have tightened our view of attacks on both civil protection personnel and blue light personnel in general. We did so through the new legislation of 1 January, and I intend to proceed with this. What can be said in short terms in response to this interpellation is that what Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm is already asking for is done in the sense that in May I appointed a special investigator to review how to proceed with the development of criminal law protection for socially important functions. The issue raised here by Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm is part of that investigation mission. I look forward to seeing the results of this when I receive the report. Investigator is a Court of Appeal Council called Ann Rapp and, as I said, she will come up with her report next year. The investigation mission includes the issue raised by Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm, but also includes other issues, including considering the issue of increased penalties for violence against officials but also strengthening criminal protection for journalists. Nevertheless, I think it is clear that the special blue light sabotage offence, which was introduced on 1 January, has been a success. We've already had 18 counts and 4 convictions, and that's only for six months. It is clear that the police and prosecutors are using this offence to try to curb sabotage of police and rescue services, and that is a good thing. That being said, we have not generally seen an increase in these cases, as Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm claims in her interpellation. I can't find any evidence for that. The special investigator investigating blue light sabotage went through a lot of cases, and he said it's gone a little up and down. When I was a Minister of the Interior, I visited emergency services in many parts of the country and spoke to the firemen there. There the picture was actually the opposite, for example in Malmö. There they talked about the situation in Rosengård and said: We had problems there in 2008 and 2009, but now we see almost no such problems anymore because they also work much more preventive against those living in the area. I have the same information from the Järva police, who say they had problems a few years ago. But now, by working preventively, an improved situation has been seen. There is also nothing in the crime statistics to substantiate the claim that violence and threats against officials would have increased. In recent years, notifications have remained largely still. We can even see a slight decrease in that part. Nevertheless, any such case is, of course, serious and must be curbed. Those who work to save other people's lives and to help other people should have the utmost and greatest respect from the rest of society, and they must have strong protection in criminal matters. That is why I am prepared to go further and extend criminal protection further, precisely the issue raised by Ann-Sofie Alm. I therefore look forward to receiving the report when it comes next year.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have no doubt that the Minister would really like to see these crimes suppressed. I would like to counter a little against the Minister's statistics. In 2015, the National Firefighters Association carried out a survey showing that 61 per cent of civil protection personnel had been subjected to threats and violence, but the rate of registration was only 4 per cent. Then you understand quite quickly that this is a dark number that is quite large. During my visits to the emergency services, the staff are testifying that threats and violence are on the increase. They're more scared today when they go out on missions. There is a power struggle going on in society, where the rescue services will perform their efforts. A pattern of behavior is that you set a fire to a car so that the police should preferably come first so that you can throw stones at them, but usually it is the emergency services. In his reply, the Minister, Madam President, says that an investigation has been set up. As far as I am concerned, the investigator will clarify who carries out official duties and who performs a public service and function in order to see who is entitled to official status. I think it sounds, Madam President, that this issue is already settled, that civil protection should have official status. But that's not how the mission of the investigation is designed, as I see it. A formal obstacle to the status of firefighters is the exercise of official authority. And the fact is that a rescue officer in the emergency services has the right to prepare himself and his staff access to another person's property. They have the right to lock down and evacuate areas. They have the right to use, remove or destroy property and to engage in other actions in the right of others. This, Madam President, is the exercise of authority. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he also considers this to be an exercise of authority. In that case, it feels like we're a bit on our way. In addition, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can give a straight answer to why firefighters and rescue workers in today's social climate would not be given the same enhanced protection as police officers, for example. I want a direct answer to whether this government values the personnel of civil protection and its efforts as high as other blue light personnel from a legal perspective. 15 000 firefighters deserve an answer to that.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-37	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can see that there are no governments that have strengthened the criminal law protection of these very staffing groups as the current government has done. We had eight years of moderate government, and nothing happened on these issues. It was, moreover, in those very years that the problems were at their greatest in some areas, as our special investigator testifies, and indeed also the police and rescue services in Malmö, that is, where the most serious cases were stone stones and other types of violence. Then the then government did nothing. This government has developed a new crime, blue light abotage, with up to life imprisonment on the scale of punishment if it would lead to serious consequences in preventing, for example, the blue light service from arriving and it would result in human life being lost. And I will continue to extend the protection of criminal law. I'm not going to pre-empt the investigation. There are many different ways and techniques to achieve the same goal. I need to see what the investigator finds out first. But AnnAnn-Sofie Alm and others should not be in doubt about the fact that I intend to continue to extend the protection of criminal law to those who are doing such an important job of saving lives and health to the public. Then I have to base myself on reported crimes. I cannot base myself on surveys, but I have to look at what the statistics actually say. My call is that if you have been subjected to any crime, you should of course report it to the police. That is the only way we can also find out how big the problem really is, and that is one way of reducing the possible number of darkness that may exist. Nevertheless, my picture is that in those places where prevention has been done, not least in the affected areas, results are achieved. The witness case, not least from the emergency services in Malmö, where I was a couple of years ago, was very clear. They had had very few incidents for many years after they started working more preventive and outreach in the vulnerable areas. We are continuing this process, and we intend to push forward further legislation. Let me add one thing too, and that is that another way to really curb this is to increase the risk of detection. I would just like to point out here the great efforts we have made on increased camera surveillance in many of the vulnerable areas. When we took office, there was almost no one at all. Today we have camera surveillance at Rosengård in Malmö, Lindängen in Malmö, Hammarkullen in Gothenburg, Gällby in Gothenburg, Bergsjön in Gothenburg, Bishopsgården in Gothenburg, Husby, Tensta and Rinkeby in Stockholm, Vivalla in Örebro, Gottsunda in Uppsala– yes, I can continue the list. Furthermore, we now also have an attempt on uniform cameras for the police, so that you can constantly follow what happens out there on a call. It is extremely important to clear up possible attacks. It also deters attacks when the possible perpetrators realize that there is a real risk for them to get caught. This will now be complemented by new modern facial recognition techniques, which means that it will be even more difficult for these types of perpetrators to try to escape if they attack police, rescue services or ambulance personnel. I also think it is important to highlight this in this work.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-45	Madam President, I would like It would have been nice and refreshing if the Minister instead of arguing about what a government did over eight years ago had talked about what should be done forward. There's plenty to do forward together. The Minister is talking about the risk of detection. I am very happy and grateful that the Social Democrats are actually adopting the Moderates' proposal for cameras. It would have been good if we had also had the same consensus in the municipalities. In the municipalities, social democrats often sit and block the possibility of expanding camera surveillance. Threatening and raping a firefighter is not classified today as violence against a civil servant. This interpellation is basically about deep respect for a profession which, as we have said here before, risks both life and health every day. This is one way to humbly thank all the families who adapt their lives to on-call hours and wake nights. It is also a way of thanking everyone who makes us feel safe. The Swedish government should, with the development of society that we have developed an action plan for a zero vision of threats and violence against all blue light personnel. Fire stations should be classified as protective objects. There is much to be gained for someone who wants to threaten our society, sabotage or retrieve information inside the emergency services station walls. Madam President, I would like Nothing that we decide in this House can give life back to Krister. But we can make decent decisions for the future, so that other families can have a dignified redress if the worst happens. Madam President, I would like The Minister has still not fully responded to the interpellation. Does the Minister intend to promote the official status of all blue-light personnel?
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-51	Madam President, I would like I think I've answered. I intend to promote greater criminal protection for those who work to save the lives and health of others and to carry out the mission and task that we have done in recent years. That's a clear answer in that part. Then there are various ways to go technically to achieve this. It must also work as it were in relation to other laws. There, of course, I await what the investigation will come up with in detail. But the direction is clear. Now Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm says it's about the Moderates' proposal for camera surveillance. Oh, my God, almost nothing happened in eight years with moderate-led governments at the Justice Department just on the camera side. What has happened has happened in these six years. Actually, it is. The Moderates tend to talk a lot in opposition. But when they end up in a government position, something like nothing happens. Now we have more camera surveillance than ever before. We're going to go through with it. We will also have modern technology, as I said, and also uniform cameras. We will also be able to use the new AI technology, facial recognition and so on. This will allow us to increase the risk of detection for those involved in this type of crime. That social democrats should block and try to counteract camera surveillance in some municipalities I have not actually heard of, and I have contact with all the social democratic councillors in the municipalities concerned. I therefore wonder whether Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm is right about what she says. We have pushed for this, and we will continue to push for it. As I said, we will continue to strengthen the criminal law protection of precisely the staff groups that Ann-Sofie Alm here concerns.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-57	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked the Minister for Civil Affairs whether it should be clarified that the current pandemic may constitute a basis for force majeure and be outside the control of a party. If the answer is no, he wonders whether the Government intends to review consumer protection legislation temporarily or permanently, so that organisers in extreme situations such as the one we are experiencing are able to offer vouchers as an alternative to cash refund of tickets and registration fees. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. It is a very serious situation that Sweden is in because of the new coronavirus, and many companies and organisations are affected. A series of measures have been taken to mitigate the impact on jobs and businesses, including by raising costs as well as through loans, credit guarantees and conversion aid. Actors in the cultural sector and the sports movement have lost revenue as a result of the spread of the new coronavirus has also been allocated SEK 1 billion in extra support. Sweden has strong consumer protection legislation. This is fundamentally very positive and is justified by the fact that the consumer may find it difficult to assert his rights vis-à-vis a trader. There must be a reasonable and predictable distribution of risk between the parties in a contractual relationship. An important starting point is that the legal conditions for contracts concluded should not be changed afterwards without strong reasons. Ola Johansson talks about what is called force majeure. This usually refers to circumstances beyond the control of a Party. There is no general obstacle to agreeing that no refund should be made when an event is cancelled as a result of force majeure. Another thing is that contract terms that are unfair can be reconciled. It may be assumed that in some cases the current pandemic may be considered as force majeure. The situations of force majeure depend on what the parties have agreed and on the circumstances of the individual case. It is not a matter for the government – or the legislator – but for the application of the law to decide how the disputes that have arisen should be assessed. There is nothing to prevent a trader from offering a voucher as an alternative to a cash refund at a cancelled event. In certain situations, this constitutes a compensation which the consumer considers acceptable while at the same time providing a relief for the organiser. The consumer can then voluntarily accept to accept the voucher. However, I do not intend to initiate mandatory legislation which, with effect back- or forward – provides in time that consumers should not be entitled to receive their money back for cancellations.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It has now been a while since large parts of society were shut down as a result of Corona. Concerts, theatre performances and sports events, both indoors and outdoors, have not been possible for a very long time. There were many of us who believed that the pandemic would pass, that the crisis that was severe and unexpected would be a parenthesis that only affected spring and summer. Now we know better. It should be remembered that this interpellation, which was submitted in mid-June after the Center Party wanted to raise the issue in negotiations with the government, is only now being answered two months later. But the situation of cultural entrepreneurs, artists, organisers' associations and individual entrepreneurs in these industries has not improved. On the contrary, the crisis for them has deepened in the two months that this interpellation has been waiting for answers. This is not just about Danny Saucedo's song at a corporate event, Jonas Gardell's resignation requirement for the Minister of Culture, Ebbot Lundberg's music at Björkö or about other established and famous artists. It's about a lot more than that. It is also about sound and light technicians, stage builders, booking staff, instrumentalists, extras and actors. Many of them have individual firms without capital, and they have a non-existent safety net in the form of unemployment funds or opportunities for short-term leave. Madam President, I would like It was on 15 March that these activities were subject to the total prohibition on trade which they could not have foreseen or had been able to influence. The decision was made by the Government and the Public Health Agency. Since then, revenues have been zero while the fixed costs remain as well as the investment, the effort to prepare, market and sell tickets. Companies are bleeding and see no lightening in autumn or spring, which must now be planned. As pointed out in the reply, the organiser can offer gift cards. But the law still states that the guest who wants the money back has the right to receive it. It must then be examined whether the organiser can deny it and instead offer an equivalent ticket, a certificate or a voucher, as stated in the interpellation response. Since the organisers now feel uncertain about the future and have not yet been told whether they can expect cultural support in addition to what the Minister of Justice mentions – or whether they can benefit from a targeted turnover subsidy, which hopefully is back – many of the organisers refrain from offering what the guest is legally entitled to, namely to receive the money back. The organizers would like to keep the ticket revenues to themselves in order to survive. Neither I nor Morgan Johansson can do anything about this. The government's response, however, is that it may be assumed that in some cases the current pandemic may be considered force majeure. It is a welcome clarification that the General Complaints Board should be able to take on board. However, the question of clarification in this part is still relevant, and the supplementary question I would like to ask is what solutions to the question of repayment that the government sees. Does Morgan Johansson think that entertainment organizers should be able to continue to refrain from repaying and hope that the judiciary will decide the matter in their favour?
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-70	Madam President, I would like Let's start by sorting out the legal stuff. Firstly, there is no consumer protection law. However, there are two other laws: a Consumer Purchase Act, which handles goods, and a Consumer Services Act, which handles services. However, there is no consumer protection law. Secondly, this is part of civil law. These are contracts between private-law entities, in this case a consumer and a trader or organiser. Such agreements may include a force majeure clause, but it is not and never has been for the government to assess whether there is force majeure. Instead, it is the General Complaints Board and the courts which determine how those agreements are to be interpreted and whether there is force majeure. In fact, this has also been done by the General Complaints Board, and I have not had to point that out to them. They have done so in some indicative decisions and have concluded that the coronapndemine can be regarded as force majeure. Actually, it is. However, after reaching this conclusion, the General Complaints Board shall decide whether the terms of the contract which they have to consider are reasonable or unfair. In that case, an assessment is made on a case-by-case basis, i.e. is it reasonable for the consumer to be compensated here, and if so, by how much, or is it unfair for the consumer to be compensated? As mentioned above, the General Complaints Board examines this on a case-by-case basis. Judging from the decisions taken so far, the General Complaints Board has landed roughly as follows: in the case of higher amounts and profit-making companies, the consumer often takes the line, i.e. he has the right to receive the money back, but in the case of lower amounts and in the case of non-profit associations that have been organisers, he often takes the lead. Then the consumer won't get the money back - or at least not everything. I have three examples of this. One case was about students who rented student flats and where the company then, of course, canceled. Then the General Complaints Board went on the line that the consumer would get the money back for the rent. Another case involved a registration fee for Vätternrundan. There was a force majeure clause that said you would get half the money back if it was cancelled. The General Complaints Board said it was reasonable, and there the consumer got half of the registration fee back. Finally, there is the Gothenburg shipyard, which was also cancelled. The registration fee there is SEK 600, and the General Complaints Board concluded that the consumer would not get the money back. Instead, the organizer simply kept the money in that part. So the General Complaints Board has looked at this. You can have views on this, but it is not the government and parliament that should assess whether a contract is fair or not, but it is the General Complaints Board and ultimately the court that should do so. We have no intention of initiating mandatory legislation, with retroactive effect, in order to impair the position of the consumer so that the consumer could never get any money back. In practice, then, we would force citizens to act as banks for businesses, and that really cannot be reasonable. It goes without saying, however, that we should do everything we can to help businesses out of this crisis. There we also have great support; only short-term lay-off, which has so far reached 70 000 companies and covers SEK 27 billion, is an important support. We also have cultural aid, which was mentioned, and conversion aid. At the moment, our parties are also negotiating how the aid should be extended and what it should look like in the future. It is clear that I am convinced that this particular issue is at the forefront of those negotiations, and we will see what they land in. However, it is the state that should take the fall for this, not the consumers.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-81	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson points out that this is not a matter for the government and parliament, but now it is that we are in the Swedish parliament and that the question is raised. I think it is urgent to have a discussion on these things, because these are important issues. On my last question, whether companies should wait to repay money, I have understood the answer as saying that it is okay if you are a public institution or a non-profit association. However, if you are an individual trader, you can say hello to your home. It's a sad news to give. I described the situation of many of these companies and the way in which they sit, and it is clear that a financial contribution in the form of cultural support or support for activities that have been banned by the decision of 15 March is welcome as an alternative or complement to this. 中 An important starting point is that the legal conditions for contracts concluded should not be changed afterwards without strong reasons. This is how the government answers the question of whether it is possible to amend the Consumer Protection Act so that the obligation to repay is lifted. It is difficult even in its wildest imagination to imagine a stronger reason to consider extraordinary measures than a worldwide pandemic of thousands of deaths in Sweden, a total lockdown of communities and a ban on gathering more than 50 people at meetings. There is a total ban on audiences at football matches, concerts and other cultural events. There must be a predictable risk distribution between traders and consumers," says Morgan Johansson. But who could have foreseen this? The government's unwillingness to address this issue and take action retroactively actually puzzles, and upsets, many. Breaking Swedish law is not something you do lightly, but in this case it still feels justified to consider such a measure. This does not primarily affect the most vulnerable, but affects those who have bought and paid for an experience or service that cannot now be delivered as expected. The second wave includes cultural life – an event industry with world-class actors and artists. They not only generate tax revenue and create jobs, but also give us joy and expectations of a more enjoyable spring and summer 2021. But with continued shutdown and no hope of financial support in any form, cultural workers will stop doing what they do, seek out other and safer jobs or suffer long-term unemployment from a profession that takes a very long time to learn to practice. At the same time, the audience is still starved of experiences. Astrid Lindgren's World, Liseberg, Gröna Lund and Skansen are closed. The business community cannot organise fairs and exhibitions even though in all cases it is about large spaces to spread over. Comparably, we have seen overcrowded beaches and crowds in bars and public transport. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice certainly shares my view that it is difficult to maintain some sort of consistency, while most people are doing the best they can to respect each other, to follow guidelines and recommendations and to keep social distance. To conclude, I would therefore like to ask Morgan Johansson what more the government can do to support scenes, theatres, concert organizers and establishment for pleasures and experiences. I believe that both culture and sport are societal functions that need both simpler rules – I have mentioned some in my interpellation – and direct financial support to survive.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-88	Madam President, I would like I strongly agree that culture and sport should have strong financial support, and, as I said, 1 billion has already been set aside for that. At the moment, however, our parties are negotiating the budget to see how we can further strengthen it. Let us get the money needed that way! The problem with Ola Johansson's question or proposal is that, if we go that way, it is the consumer who would have to take the whole blow. Thus, for a cancellation, the consumer will not receive any money back. At best, he or she can, as I have said, get back a voucher that could possibly be redeemed next year. As I said, consumers – citizens – act as banks for businesses. I think it is better for the state to take this blow – that we use the strong public finances we have built up for many years to make as much easier as we can now for both business and for sport, culture and associations. We're gonna use that money for it. But then that is what we are going to do, that is to say, go in with money in terms of support for the organisers and for the companies. We are not going to do anything to put the consumer under pressure. Nor should we, in a completely unique way, intervene in disputes between individuals. What Ola Johansson says about us being in the Swedish parliament is true. But the Swedish parliament also has limitations. There are limits to what decisions we as politicians can make. Sweden is a rule of law. This means that we cannot go into the exercise of authority or in court decisions. Nor can we suddenly decide how disputes between two private-law entities should be settled or what is reasonable or unfair in an agreement between two private-law entities. We can't. This restriction has been imposed by the Riksdag and also by the Government. Madam President, I would like No, I am convinced that we are in the same direction, namely that we should do everything we can to ensure that the cultural and sports sector can get through this crisis well. But let us do so by using our public finances and not by letting consumers take the fall. That would be wrong.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-93	Madam President, I would like I think it is excessive to say that consumers act as banks for businesses. It is about the possibility of making withdrawals at a later date. I think it is in the interest of most consumers and event guests that there will also be organisers in the coming spring and summer who can create those experiences. There is also a distinction between delivering a product, something you can touch, and an experience. An experience is of great value to many, but it is also something that one can imagine getting afterwards and not something that one might have to deliver during the day. Here's my point. There should be stronger support for event companies to be able to wait for tickets to be paid out and to offer another option. Finally, I think that the government should consider temporarily amending the Consumer Protection Act so that no one – now I am using the wrong vocabulary – event organiser should have to refund a ticket as long as one can offer an equivalent alternative or a voucher that can be redeemed when the business is running as usual. Such a change of law should of course be limited in time. The government should state, even more clearly than Morgan Johansson did today, that it may be assumed that in some cases the current pandemic may be considered force majeure. It would guide Arn and give the event companies rye in their backs to stand up and keep with the refund. The government should also consider, as Morgan Johansson also suggests, cultural support or some form of additional support for these activities, which have suffered total shutdown since 15 March, so that they can have any chance of survival.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-98	Madam President, I would like The General Complaints Board has, as I have said, stated that force majeure exists. However, it is then necessary to examine whether the terms of the contract are reasonable or unfair. That is what I stated in my first speech, namely that in some cases it has been found that it is reasonable to get the money back but in others it is not. I think this thing about acting as a bank is a pretty good description. I took student bodies as an example. What if that trader had told the students, "No, you won't get your money back?" It was 23,000 kroner. But I'll give you a voucher so you can go back some other time. You can't do that. That is exactly why the General Complaints Board said that it was unfair and that the money must therefore go back, while, as I said, other assessments have been made regarding Gothenburg Shipyard, Vätternrundan and so on. If we are going to resolve this issue and continue to support and ensure that cultural and sporting activities get out of this crisis in a good way, I think we should use the strong public finances we have. Once again, we are currently negotiating what the budget should look like for both the current and the coming years. Let us make sure that together we put the money that is now needed to make it as good as possible and so that we can manage this sector well too.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-102	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to help the taxi industry and other individual couriers and haulage companies overwinter during the current crisis. The spread of the coronavirus has affected Swedish companies drastically and is testing our society. Since the outbreak, the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals have implemented measures which currently amount to 2 55 billion in order, among other things, to limit the spread of infection and to mitigate the effects on jobs and businesses. The measures are broad in scope and cover a number of areas. In this context, the possibility for firms applying for conversion aid to be reimbursed for fixed costs of various types can be mentioned. For example, in some cases the charge paid by taxi companies to belong to a taxi centre can be considered as a fixed cost that can be reimbursed for. You can also get support for rent and leasing costs. The largest category of companies, about 2 700 out of 13 000, which have applied for conversion aid are engaged in taxiing. The government is closely following developments and is ready to continue making the necessary decisions to limit the spread of infection and counteract the negative effects of the crisis on society.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson! First of all, I would like to see a development of the last paragraph of the reply that is that the government is closely following developments and is ready to continue making the necessary decisions to limit the spread of the disease and counteract the negative effects of the crisis on society. The final part is important for companies in the transport sector, especially for individual companies. They cannot, in the same way as larger companies, benefit from the aid measures that have been presented. That's why I want to develop it. One of the sectors most affected by the Corona crisis is the taxi industry. This is something that the Minister for Finance himself presented at a presentation on 14 May. The taxi business is literally on the ropes. Companies are left without crisis aid, and the government's non-existent or limited emergency assistance to individual firms leads to a slow death for the taxi industry. The situation is serious for today's entrepreneurs. But it also gives a signal for the future that it is not worthwhile doing the right thing. Once you need help, there's no help to get. It creates mistrust in individuals. Sweden, like the rest of the world, is in a particularly difficult situation, a crisis that no one could have foreseen or even prepared for. For the smaller companies, usually individual firms, the effect is disastrous. They are in great need of support from the government, not since but now. Convention bans and non-existent tourism have hit Swedish taxi industry hard. In addition, the number of sick trips and the transport of elderly people has decreased dramatically throughout the country. Individual companies are left out. And despite the government's comprehensive spring emergency package, there is really nothing that has come to the rescue of individual companies. The crisis package that the government itself claims goes to individual small businesses does not work in practice. I have an example, a friend of mine who's just doing road haulage. When the pandemic broke out, the activity literally stopped booming. He had to drop off his vehicle. He was not the only one, but several others. He applied for conversion aid and did exactly what he said. It ended with a decision of SEK 4,916. None of it was paid out when the amount had to be at least SEK 5 000. Although there was a stop in his business – he could not drive because there was no demand for his services – so there was SEK 0 in conversion support. This is what it looks like for very many individual companies. The situation looks dark for the Swedish taxi industry, and it risks getting even worse once the crisis is over. Who, then, will carry out school transport, sick transportation and necessary taxi trips out in the Swedish countryside? Earlier this summer, a taxi driver expressed himself in the following way: As things stand, one will not be able to save anyone with current crisis aid. I believe that politicians lack the strength and backbone to make such decisions. If you still believe in a solution, you risk being incredibly disappointed. This is what it looks like. But there will be a life after the Corona crisis, and then there must be an activity that works and can take care of the transport that society needs to do. I would like to see the last paragraph of the written reply developed.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-116	Madam President, I would like The taxi industry and large parts of the transport sector are very hard hit by Corona and are having a very tough time right now. In the taxi industry there are many individual traders who have a very vulnerable position. However, I would like to nuance the picture a little of the fact that the government's support does not reach people with individual firms. The government's support is possible from all companies, as well as from individual companies. There is, for example, the possibility of deferred VAT. In addition, individual firms have the possibility to change the provisional tax and thus obtain a lower provisional tax payment if they consider that there will be no large revenue for the current year. The reduced self-taxes also apply, of course, to self-employed workers. We have introduced a specially adapted compensation for the withdrawal for self-employed workers. Of course, the reimbursement of sickness pay, which the State is now taking, also applies to self-employed persons. In addition, we have the conversion aid, which is used to a large extent by the taxi industry. It is very good that many in the taxi industry have had the opportunity to take part in this support, although it sounded like the very person with whom the Member of Parliament had spoken had happened to end up on the wrong side of the administrative border. Furthermore, we have introduced special support for self-employed workers by allowing them to make additional provisions for the accrual fund. This means that you can have last year's paid-up tax refunded to the account. It has been important for not least many of those who had a very tough liquidity situation just when the pandemic struck. 32 000 individual traders have chosen to use this option. This can then be deducted from future losses or deferred tax payments. The aid that does not go directly to self-employed workers – unless you have employees – is short-term leave. However, if, on the other hand, you are self-employed, you will of course have the opportunity to give them short-term leave. This is a comprehensive package to support the entire Swedish business community. But we have also worked to specifically support the individual traders. Nevertheless, there are many individual traders who are in a vulnerable position. Maybe it's the part of the business community that has the least margins. That is why we are now working very intensively in the Government Office, and have been doing so for a period of time, to look at what additional support we can provide and which is specifically targeted at those who are individual traders. We hope, of course, to be able to present this within not too long, because many companies are now in a very tough situation.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-122	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, for your answer! The taxi industry, together with many other companies in the transport business that are individual companies, is having an extremely tough time right now. For the vast majority, this means SEK 0 in income. When the car is stationary, no revenue is generated. There is no alternative, but when the car stands still, it stands still. It'll be 0 kroner in. But there is always money to be paid out when you have a vehicle. You can certainly deduct the charge to a taxi centre and the like, but there are many other things that have to be paid. Let's look at short-term work for the taxi industry. It is an effect that is directly opposite. This is intended to make it easier for companies to survive the acute crisis. However, with the low current level of revenue, a reduction in working time directly strikes the already low revenues, as the revenue is directly related to the number of hours the vehicle is in traffic. Taxi operators currently need their cars in traffic as far as possible in order to mitigate the effects of the loss of revenue. Instead of reducing the time the vehicle is in service, the vehicle needs to be in traffic to a greater extent even to get close to the previous revenue level. It takes tremendously advanced mathematics to make this go together. Measures must be taken here to keep taxi companies in place after the crisis. We will need to be able to drive the elderly to the health centre and to health examinations. We're going to have to do school transports. We will need taxi transport in general. Then the industry must also have a reasonable chance of survival. Here, action must be taken quickly – now – and it must not be delayed. Let's look at how many cars are off. On 1 January, 288 vehicles were decommissioned. On May 26th, it was 1,587. That's an increase of 551 percent. This increase indicates the decrease in turnover in the industry. In addition, the number of bankruptcies was 60 in the period March to May 2020, compared to 35 bankruptcies in the same period in 2019. That means an increase of 71%. The reason why the number of bankruptcies is not higher is that very many of the companies are made up of individual companies. This means that you may have mortgaged your property or borrowed from family and friends. You move the time forward to when you have a personal bankruptcy. If there is no change quite soon, we will see a large number of personal bankruptcies in the autumn. It is very dramatic and will drive costs for society at large. One more step must be taken quickly here. I would like a clearer description of the situation of the Minister for Finance with regard to the last paragraph of the reply.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-128	Madam President, I would like As Thomas Morell says, a lot of taxi operators have a tough situation. Thomas Morell himself mentions that many taxi companies also run school shootings, transportation services and medical transportation. It may be said, however, that it is positive that we in Sweden have maintained the school shooters. It enables them to have this income in any case. It is therefore a good thing that the Swedish Democrats' proposal that we should close the schools did not go through. It would have further deteriorated for taxi companies, which are already very vulnerable. However, some medical transports may have become fewer now because much care has been postponed due to Corona. It should not be forgotten that many taxi operators themselves are very vulnerable when it comes to the infection. Unfortunately, taxi drivers seem to be one of the professions overrepresented among those exposed to infection. This can be understood. I hope, of course, that many taxi companies will invest in protective equipment so that drivers will not have to get sick in covid-19. The fact that so many taxi companies run their own company puts their finger on the Swedish labour market. It is important for those who want to run their own business and are passionate about having such independence to have good opportunities to do so. However, if you choose to do so in an individual firm, you are personally more exposed to financial risks than if you choose to do so in the form of limited liability companies. We have improved and facilitated the ability to conduct companies in the form of limited liability companies by reducing the requirement for share capital. We have also reduced the auditor requirements for limited liability companies. This is an important discussion that people when they run their own company look at what risks there are and what opportunities you have to choose between different types of companies. Although we have reduced the share capital requirement, it can of course be a major effort and thus impossible for many people. This also points to the fact that many people who run a taxi company in an individual firm might rather have wanted to be employees. We have seen developments in the Swedish labour market that more and more in certain professions where they have traditionally had a job are now forced to have their own company. This points to labour law. It would be very unfortunate if people were now going into personal bankruptcy when they would have preferred to be employed from the outset. I think there is good reason to review how the Swedish labour market and the Swedish labour law work, so that fewer people are forced to run companies as individual firms instead of being employees. I note that the Swedish Democrats do not have proposals in this direction. On the contrary, they do not stand up for those Swedes who do not have a strong position in the labour market.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-135	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Finance, Magdalena Andersson, for her reply. The taxi industry is extremely vulnerable, partly because of the coronapandemine, with all the risk of contamination for drivers and the loss of revenue, and partly because of another problem that has to be tackled in the taxi industry, namely the black market and all the app companies that offer opportunities for cheap transport. They are completely out of the law. That's where we can talk about black business. The serious business in taxis, which is what we must stick to, is extremely exposed to the corona, with all the effects it has, but also to illegal competition. So there are two things to deal with. One should try to overwinter until the pandemic is over and our societies start up again. Serious companies need help and support to overcome this and overcome the crisis, on the one hand, economically and, on the other hand, by society clearly pointing the finger at those who drive black alongside. If we get rid of it, a lot will be won. But we also need to provide support to entrepreneurs so that they survive and overwinter the crisis that we are all currently in.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-138	Madam President, I would like The government has adopted historically large and rapid crisis packages to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. It is clear that the packages we have come up with have also meant a great deal to ensure that companies have survived this crisis and that people who would otherwise have become unemployed have been able to remain on their jobs, including by short-term lay-off. The government is following developments very closely. What we are specifically working on is to provide additional support to the companies that operate as individual firms. The taxi industry, which is very vulnerable in this crisis, is an industry in which many run an individual firm. When we come up with such a proposal, therefore, the taxi industry is precisely among those who will benefit in particular. At the same time, I think it is good that there is so much in the taxi industry that has applied for conversion aid. I very much hope that many people feel that it is a support that can make it easier for them to overwinter the crisis. One thing is certain: we need taxis in the future.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-141	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the current police roadside inspection organisation. The interpeller has also asked me whether I would like to give the police the targeted resources needed to strengthen controls and thus limit the activities of criminals. Let me begin by expressing my deep dismay at the tragic event that took the life of a 12-year-old girl. The deed fills me with anger and determination. Me and the Council will continue our hard work of fighting crime. This requires, among other things, an accessible police officer, a strong judicial system and effective legislation. Here the construction of the Police Authority is a central part, and the government is carrying out a historic investment in the agency. In June, we reached half the way towards the target of 10 000 more police officers. At present, there are more than 33 000 police employees in total, which is the highest number of police employees ever. The allocation of resources within the Agency is a matter for the Police Authority to decide on. The organisation of the political authority is something that a united parliament has supported. However, the government has found reasons to review the way in which the control activities of commercial road transport are carried out. A specific investigator shall propose improvement measures, including organisational measures, in order for more people to comply with the relevant rules. I do not intend to pre-empt the ongoing investigation and, at the same time, I assume that the Police Authority will best benefit from the substantial addition of resources in order, among other things, to combat crime on our roads. Police control of heavy commercial traffic is an important tool for maintaining good road safety, healthy competition in the haulage industry and a good social situation for drivers. The controls are also an important component of the Politiska området's work to prevent, detect and investigate crimes. Controlling heavy commercial traffic requires specific skills, which some police officers possess, but all police officers can stop and control a vehicle in case of suspicion of a crime. As the interpellant describes, international theft leagues are a major challenge for our authorities. On 14 February this year, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard presented the joint government mission to strengthen the fight against international crime networks that commit criminal offences in Sweden. The mission has resulted in, among other things, joint releases, a more coordinated and enhanced exchange of intelligence, joint operational teams on border crossings and intensified crime prevention. The mission authorities intend to continue cooperation and develop it further. In addition, Sweden is active in Europol cooperation on cross-border organised crime, which gives us good opportunities to cooperate operationally with the relevant authorities from several countries of theft. The government has also initiated several direct bilateral contacts with governments in many of the home countries of the theft leagues.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-148	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Mikael Damberg for his answer. I note that the Government experiences the same dismay and anger as the Swedish people over the madness that put a 12-year-old girl's life out. Unfortunately, I also note a tangible passivity on the part of the government in terms of really getting to the criminal networks that are ravaging our society. The road is the biggest crime scene. Nevertheless, police intervention is a priority which could effectively reduce the activities of criminals. As early as 2012, good police officers at the then county police in Västra Götaland found that there was a connection between illegal professional traffic and other criminal activities in society. The police found that the criminal networks created financial resources by carrying out illegal commercial traffic and then investing that money in other criminal activities. It was usually drugs that they invested in. Much of the shootings that we see today are the result of agreements between different groupings, where drugs are an important part of the business. Drugs, weapons, explosives and not least people are smuggled into the country. This is largely the case with heavy-duty vehicles. People are a commodity that is forced to work for starvation wages or to be forced into prostitution. All of this we have been able to see as we have been following developments. Along with many others, not least police officers, I have pointed this out in debates, newspaper articles and television interviews, but nothing happens. The government seems to be factually resistant. The road is an important link in the criminal world, but it has police leadership and the government apart. That is why we have a situation in which criminals can still strengthen their financial resources by engaging in illegal professional traffic on their roads. This is not news, for good police officers pointed out this situation already eight years ago. The government's passivity in this matter has created a living space for violence and shootings. It's a passivity that ultimately caused the death of a 12-year-old girl. I'd like to quote a cabinet neighbor in Skövde police station. He said this one night when we were changing: You can never take all the bad guys, but you can get so intense and difficult that it seriously affects their criminal activities. That, the Government, is something to think about. Shortly after the investigation carried out in 2012 about the criminal activity on the roads – I know the commissioners who were the authors of the investigation very well – a debate article was published in the newspapers, written by a large number of truck owners and a former police commissioner: This is written by a number of representatives of the haulage industry together with former Inspector Per-Per-Arne Nilsson. ..................................................... In the debate article, the report states that there is a major lack of control, monitoring and sanctions by the authorities. We are of the opinion that reality is being ignored. ..................................................... Those are pretty heavy words, I have to say.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Morell, for two important interpellations, both on criminality in general and on its connection with criminality on the way. I think Mr Morell is also having a later interpellation debate with Tomas Eneroth. I wonder if Mr Morell can indicate any government in modern times that has done more to control and create order and order than the present government. This is indeed an issue that we are dealing with with with a high priority. We have seen how people use people on the road, how people do not comply with regulations on the road and how they have not had tools to stop, prevent and punish those who break the rules on the way. We are now implementing the largest expansion of the Police Authority in modern times. We strengthen both Customs' resources and its powers at the border. I'm not saying the situation is good. The road is still being used as a crime scene, as a link for the transport of contraband, weapons and drugs. However, we are now carrying out strong reinforcements of the authorities responsible for combating crime and ensuring that it does not cross the border. We will continue to do so. We're only halfway through the expansion of the police department. Then let me turn to my own business, which is about control activities on the way. There we have said that we believe that we must take a full turn. I believe that Mr Eneroth will discuss this issue in a later interpellation debate. We have appointed a special investigator to look at how control activities should actually be organised to be effective enough. Today, there are a number of different actors in charge of control on the road. One thing is to see if one should have a unified control organisation on the way to get more impact. I have spoken to the chief of police about this. He is quite clear that he intends to strengthen control on the road. During the year alone, I believe that a net growth of the specific car inspectors is expected in order to be able to carry out more inspections. We had a time where we did much more checks on the way. Then it dipped when the Police Authority was weaker and had far fewer employees. Now we are growing again, and that increases the police's ability to take their responsibilities seriously. I'm following the statistics, too. When Erling Andersson visited the Transport Committee, he presented statistics for the first half of 2020, where it turned out that the police had increased their controls in all areas. So there is growth, from rather low levels. It must continue so that we can get the roads straight. I understand that we have the same target. We have an interest from both the Swedish Democrats and the Government in steering up this business. However, I would prefer it not to be described as nothing being done, because the question is which government has done more than the current government to bring order to the roads too. This is not just a Swedish job either; it is also a European job. The Swedish Government and many Swedish parliamentarians in the European Parliament are working very hard to steer the European regulations in this part in order to access cabotage traffic that violates the rules and so that you do not violate the rules that apply on the roads. It is a very important piece of work that the Swedish Government has put very high in our European cooperation.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-166	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. What is happening right now is that the number of officials on the move is falling. We have three islands, one might say, in Sweden that are very effective in getting at cheating in heavy traffic. Helsingborg is one of them. One of the top police officers there retired this summer... unfortunately, I have to say. That's not to say that others aren't as good, but he was top of the line. Here they have of course had a management that supported the business so that they have been able to work in this way and be as effective as they have after all been in Helsingborg, and this also applies to Västerås and Eskilstuna. I wish it had been so in more places in Sweden. Then the problem of illegal traffic and all that it brings could have been addressed. I am pleased that an investigation has been set up. Then we'll see how it's going to be organized in the future. However, the downward trend of officials on the way cannot be allowed to continue. No matter what the investigation comes up with, you have to be sure to equip the organization you have. You have to recruit, you have to train and you have to train the staff you have. The capacity of society to curb criminal activity must be strengthened. The criminal activity on the move is extensive. When you're out watching, you can see that there's a lot of transportation into the country of contraband, drugs, weapons and whatever it is, but there's also a lot of cars being transported out of the country on heavy goods vehicles. Skövde has in recent weeks had huge concerns about stealing Volvo cars. You walk outside the property with a toad and read the key – there are keyless locks on the cars. You read the signal and then you turn it around, start the car and disappear. In Skara they had a lot of that last year, and now they have had it for a few weeks in Skövde. These cars quickly disappear onto trailers and disappear out of the country, almost always across the bridge. According to Alarm Service, it represents a value of SEK 2 billion a year that goes out as stolen goods that way. This is where the criminal networks create their economic muscles in order to carry out other criminal activities. This was confirmed by Per-Per-Arne Nilsson and the other commissioners eight years ago. I know it was previous governments before the present one, but not much happened. I cannot say that much is happening now either, if you look at how the activity on the road works, because people stop. They retire or get another job. It does not therefore have the growth or increase in capacity needed for on-the-road controls, and it does not train enough to get them out there. That's a problem. I hope that the government will ensure in various ways, in letters of regulation and such like, that the Police Authority really strengthens the controls on its way. We need to get to the crime scene.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-173	Madam President, I would like The Government's ambition is indeed that the major investments we make at the Police Authority should also be noticed throughout the country and that the Police Authority will be more effective, not least in combating the international theft leagues that account for a great deal of housing breaches and the theft of agricultural machinery and boat engines. We have seen that over half, perhaps 80 percent, of some of these categories of stolen goods are taken by theft leagues. It is therefore very effective to focus the work on it. To stop the passage from Sweden, but also to prevent them from entering Sweden, will then be very effective. This is why we have got several different authorities to work much closer. It also seems to have an effect. Take the housing crimes, which are thought to be about half controlled by international theft leagues. There the decline in recent years is quite dramatic. Housing break-ins have decreased by somewhere around 35 per cent in recent years, as it has become more effective in accessing the gangs of theft. Thefts also go after what is most profitable. We see that they are redirecting their activities towards other sectors, such as the construction sector, where there is a lot of equipment and other valuable things. Also cars and boat engines have been large. This is a priority work, as well as the police continuing to work with it together with other authorities. It is possible that Morell has more knowledge than I do, but when I ask the Police Authority they say that the organisation on the police side will grow during this year with more net services. So it should not just be equal to retirement, but it is said that you are in a phase of growth. We'll see if the police department succeeds, but that's at least their ambition. I think that the statistics for the first months of this year show that all categories of road checks have increased. It shows that the police are doing something right: you go from low levels, and the number of controls is now starting to increase. I'd like the police to keep doing that. I think it's a key to getting at not least the theft leagues. But it's wider than that. I think the transport sector has had to be too much of the Wild West. There has been a lot of black companies and too much business that has not complied with Swedish laws and regulations, and it competes out healthy transport companies. This makes it almost impossible to carry out this type of activity in Sweden. We are now well on the way to steering up and taking a strong stance towards this. We are not going to have it that way on Swedish roads, and Tomas Eneroth will talk more about it in his interpellation debate. I'm sure of it. But this is an important issue for the government, so I can assure the interpeller that the government will continue to work to both increase controls and also make the police even more effective against these theft leagues.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the State Council Mikael Damberg, for your answer! The report from Linköping University that came earlier this year is interesting. I don't know if you've heard of it. It will occupy us quite a lot in the autumn, I promise. The report shows that the police are not really on their toes in the way they say they are. The criticisms in d a are quite extensive. I have my contacts in the police because I've worked there myself, and I know how it works. We have talked about control on the road, about professional traffic and about the possibility for criminals to create financial resources. It is a huge concern, because they then create opportunities to commit other types of crime. It's a misery. But there is also a road safety aspect to this with road checks. On Monday the police stopped in Eskilstuna four combinations. Now the police were on their toes, and the prosecutors too, so there was a fine of $35,000. That was great. So it was about light trucks with connected trailers. Thus they were subject to recording equipment, but they did not have recording equipment. In addition, one of the combination was towed with a regular strap between the trailer and the next car. The brakes were so bad that the police had to lay stones on the ground so that the combination could be weighed. I would like to see anyone who wants to meet that kind of transport on our roads! This is, like, everyday today. Now it was decently light vehicles that it was all about. They may have weighed only 6 to 7 tons. But it can come brakeless combination of 40 tons, and then it is easy to figure out what happens. I very much hope that the Minister will now get to grips with this and that, for several reasons, we will have a well-functioning monitoring activity on the way.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-187	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that for a number of years the police authorities have not carried out enough checks on their way. It has been suppressed as an organization. Few employees have been employed and have had difficulties with priorities between serious and organised crime, for which emergency calls have been made. Now they are in a phase of growth, and my expectations for this growth are that the Police Authority will also ensure that controls are strengthened on the road. Compared to what it was ten years ago, much fewer checks are being carried out on the road today, but we can still see how the police authorities are finally starting to get the checks up compared to a few years ago. We are also seeing an upswing this year, and I hope it can continue. We are also investigating a new control organisation on the way to get more effective control. We have also tightened up many demands on the way. We've raised the penalties, put in class and alcolocks. The winter tyre issue will probably also put a barrier on rogue actors in Sweden. So we are working on a lot of fronts to create more order on the roads. It is a way of protecting the safety of both drivers and employees in their social situation. It is also a means of combating illegal competition and organised crime. On this we will certainly have to debate again, but I can assure the interpeller that this is an important issue for the government that we will continue to work hard on.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-192	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that professional drivers receive a legally sound assessment of their higher driving licences and whether I intend to actively contribute to the application of the European Commission's derogation by the Transport Agency. The common minimum requirements for the medical fitness of drivers in the EU driving licence directive are an important part of getting safe drivers on the road. The medical requirements for driving licences for epilepsy are higher for professional drivers than for other drivers. Sweden's regulation is in line with the minimum requirements. Since the situation has not changed since we debated the question last autumn, I give the same answer. I believe that the trial that is being carried out is legally secure. The Swedish rules are based on the driving licence directive. For heavy ratings, the directive requires ten years of freedom of attack without medication. For drivers with good prognosis this time can be shortened. The assessment is made in the individual cases by the Swedish Transport Agency. In this way, the Swedish Transport Agency applies the exemption possibilities of the driving licence directive, and if the person is dissatisfied, the decision can be appealed.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas, for your answer! Yes, we have discussed this issue. It has been up for debate, and there has been a change that is quite dramatic for a large part of our professional drivers in the country. Road safety is very important. It must never be the case that road safety should be subject to customs duties. We must all be able to be on the road and feel confident that those who are there are also able to drive vehicles, especially if they are heavy vehicles. The people we are talking about are people who have had a milder version of epilepsy as a child and who have been taking medicines for prevention up to adulthood. There are also drivers with visual field limitations, who have had an exemption before and have been allowed to drive. This changed suddenly. Over a night, they were suddenly not allowed to continue driving. Medically, nothing has happened. They haven't gotten any worse. But it has been decided that they must not continue driving. It is a stricter approach that has brought about this change. The drivers who have epilepsy can have 20, 30 or 40 years of dotted driving behind them. They can have 2,400,000 miles in their backs without anything happening. They've been exemplary in traffic. This compares with a private car driver who, throughout his lifetime, could possibly reach 60,000 miles behind the wheel. These drivers are on constant medical examinations. When you talk about the risk of a consciousness disorder behind the wheel, doctors say that this category of drivers with the treatment they receive is at a lower risk of consciousness disturbance than the rest of us, which are considered healthy. It's pretty striking. In view of this, our MEP, Peter Lundgren, asked the Commission whether an exception could be made to the provisions of the new directive. The answer given to him by the Commission states that point 12.12 also provides that national authorities may allow drivers with the conditions for a good forecast to drive vehicles earlier. However, the question of using this possibility is left to the national authorities and their medical experts. The medical experts – I assume that the neurologists, the doctors who are doing these very diagnoses, are experts – say that in the type of medical treatment these drivers have, the risk is less than that of a healthy individual. So the risk of having a consciousness disturbance behind the wheel is less for these individuals than for the rest of us. There is a judgment that I will later read a game from that is quite interesting in the context. What's this about? It is about drivers being able to drive their vehicle safely on the road without endangering their own safety or that of others. These drivers, with many years of experience and years of dotted driving, have proved by far that they are capable of driving their vehicles. So they have not been a danger to others or to themselves.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-206	Madam President, I would like We have discussed this issue several times, Thomas Morell. However, I would like to start by saying that I very much appreciate the commitment, because it is important. It is important that we ensure that as many people as possible can use the experience and skills they have. We need skilled professional drivers in Sweden. There's a lack of it. And we need to provide good opportunities for people, even if they have had a disease, to come back and be active professional drivers. In this case, however, we should remember that the background to the application of the Swedish Transport Agency is that in an infringement case the Commission pointed out to us in Sweden that we had a too generous interpretation of the rules that exist. In Peter Lundgren's question to the European Commission, it is not quite clear that it is possible to make a different interpretation. The Commission is therefore clear back and says that the way the Swedish Transport Agency applies the rules is correct. I think it is important to remember this. It is not a narrower interpretation, but a correct interpretation. We have legal certainty aspects that are important from an individual point of view. It is not we, as Minister of State or Thomas Morell as Member of Parliament, who can go in and speak on how the individual matter should be dealt with, but it is actually authorities who interpret and apply. If you are not satisfied, you can appeal. The basic question is: Do I think it is a legal test? Yes, it's a legal test. The person having his case examined has the opportunity to appeal, and so the courts can put practice. I think it is important that we take care that we have that order. There is a difference between a professional driver and other drivers in traffic. I am thinking not least of the demand for ten years of freedom of attack without medication. It is important to know that you are in front of the combination that may be at 60, 70 tons. It is a very big responsibility that you have as a professional driver. That is why the European Commission is making tougher and higher demands, and I think that is reasonable from the point of view of road safety. With regard to the cases raised by Mr Morell, it is up to individuals to appeal. Should it turn out that courts in Sweden see a need for a different interpretation, I am, of course, prepared to proceed. In essence, I share the view that it is important that we use as much as possible of the skills available for experienced professional drivers, but it should be safe and secure. The directives that we have jointly agreed in the European Union are such that one should actually ensure that one cannot have an attack while driving. You're supposed to have been seizure-free for the last ten years.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! As far as safety is concerned, we share the same view. It's very important that we have a high level of safety on our roads-- there's nothing else to talk about. However, we must not ignore what the doctors actually say about these people. This also has some other consequences. Medicines are sometimes used for purposes other than those for which they are designed. Drivers of heavy-duty vehicles have been affected when, for example, epilepsy medication has been introduced to take down swelling after blows to the head. All of a sudden they lose their driver's license and have to be seizure-free for ten years. They haven't had epilepsy. They haven't had any seizures. But they've been given a medication to suppress a swelling. The consequence is that they have lost their driving licence. So the consequences are very strange. There is no medical basis for taking the licence from these individuals. As I said, security was important. There is no one who says otherwise, but security must be put first. In this case, doctors say that the drivers involved – I think it was 300 or 400 drivers – have a lower risk than the rest of us, who are considered healthy. There was a judgment in the Administrative Court in Jönköping on 14 August, which I find extremely exciting. It is stated in the administrative court's assessment: the question in the case is whether, for probable reasons, it can be assumed that – I do not say the name now – the conditions for driving a driver's licence are so significantly limited by illness, injury or the like that he should no longer have a driving licence from a road safety point of view. The Administrative Court found that there were no such problems, so the Swedish Transport Agency's decision was annulled. I think it's really important. So here we have a judgment in the administrative court where you go in and look at the individual. Is he a concern for road safety? Can he drive a vehicle safely or not? The Administrative Court found this: Yes, he can. He can drive a vehicle. He is no danger to others. It gives a little light to the fact that the Swedish Transport Agency can, after all, make individual assessments, but it does not. Now the Administrative Court has all pointed out, and now we must hope that we will have a different order so that we can follow what is actually stated in the answer that was given: that it is up to the medical experts in each country. There you can now get support from the administrative court's judgment.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-219	Madam President, I would like I think that this shows that it works exactly as it is intended, that is to say: if you are not satisfied with the decision taken by the authority, you have the right to appeal. That's why it's a legal system. In this case, the Court – and neither I nor Thomas Morell have any comments on this – has interpreted the law, if I understand it correctly, in the favour of the complainant. That is exactly how it should work in the rule of law. It is reasonable that the Authority should then take note of this and bear it in mind when taking decisions in cases in future. That's how we shape practice. That's how the application of law should work. It is a good thing if there are a number of guiding judgments, because it facilitates legal certainty. I understand the background, too. After an infringement case, we received criticism from the Commission for having too generous an application. Now we have an opportunity through court rulings to actually see what application will be like in the future. I believe that the starting point must be that the individual should feel confident in having his or her case examined and that he or she has the right to appeal and then get a ruling. We should be able to feel safe as a general public and as a decision-maker in that we start from the regulatory framework that exists but also from road safety. That is what has been done in this case. You make an assessment, and then you come to a conclusion. I think this speaks for – I hope that Thomas Morell shares this view – that we have a legal test. You have the opportunity to appeal as a driver, and then it is the courts that make the decision. That's how it should be in Sweden.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Tomas Eneroth. Now it is a matter of fact that this judgment came barely a week ago. It wasn't even on the table when the interpellation was written. It should also be said in this context that it does not concern epilepsy – it was another disease condition. But it doesn't matter. Nevertheless, it is quite indicative of how this should be viewed. There's supposed to be a high level of security on our roads. There shall be a high level of safety for drivers, in particular when driving heavy-duty vehicles. But if you meet the medical requirements – you are not a problem, and you are not a danger to yourself or others – the authority should not go in and intervene with regard to the driving licence. For me it is extremely satisfying to read this judgment. I very much hope that we will now have a somewhat soberer view – if the expression is allowed – when it comes to drivers with long experience but with a medical assessment being able to keep their driving licence as long as the medical conditions for what was previously the basis for their exemption are still met. After all, it must not be the case that things are getting worse, because then the matter is different. Then it is also the case that new licence holders should not be prepared for the opportunity that the old ones had, but from the outset the new rules should apply. In this way the older drivers are phased out as they go. Thank you for a good debate!
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-230	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell. I think this is proof that the application works here. It is also the balance that the courts actually do. Again, ten seizure-free years are required without antiepileptics. National authorities can grant drivers with the conditions for good forecasting permission to drive motor vehicles earlier. This means that you can grant exemptions from the requirement for seizure-free time of ten years after an individual assessment but not from the requirement to be medicine-free. There will be guiding judgments. There has previously been a Court of Appeal judgment, and obviously – if this is the case – another judgment. That's how law enforcement should be. Let us continue to monitor the issue, and let us ensure that we are safe in our ways!
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-235	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Sweden achieves the number of checks on, among other things, driving and rest times promised to the EU and the UN. Controls by the police on heavy commercial traffic are important for road safety and for promoting fair competition in the haulage industry. However, regarding the number of checks on driving and rest periods – Thomas Morell believes that the controls are too few – there is a misunderstanding. The commitment on the number of checks on driving and rest periods concerns not only the control activities of the Police Authority but also the Swedish Transport Agency. Together, the police and the Swedish Transport Agency's controls for 2019 fulfil the Swedish commitment. In addition, the police have increased checks on driving and rest periods from 2018 to 2019. However, the Government's ambition goes further than that. We have an ambitious interim target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2030, and the conditions for healthy competition in the haulage industry need to be improved. The reinforcement of resources to the police creates better conditions for control activities on the roads. In addition, during the period 2017 – 2020, the Government has increased to SEK 100 million to specifically strengthen certain parts of the control business. The Government has also set up an investigation to develop proposals for more effective checks on professional traffic. In addition, the negotiations on the mobility package in the EU are now on target. This means that rules that provide better conditions for a healthy and level playing field between EU Member States can be implemented.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-240	Madam President, I would like In fact, the information on the question I asked was not mine, but I read what the report I'm holding– I don't know if the Government has taken note of it. As regards the police's annual report, it is stated that the annual report for 2019 mentions that the reason why the results do not meet the annual commitments in the areas of control of dangerous goods and control of driving and rest times is a number of years with reduced numbers of police officers with special expertise in the field of traffic. So these are the police's own figures. Adding the figures of the Swedish Transport Agency and the police to the common statistics is one thing, but if we are going to get to the cheating, it is not worth adding statistical checks. If we are to get to those who cheat, it is proper controls with a high level of competence that must be done, and that is not what the Swedish Transport Agency is up to. The government knows that I have views on its ability to manage to remove those who cheat and manipulate the system. The other day there was a trucker who had ordered tires from a supplier and who simply refused to unload the car because they realized that it was not right. It was a foreign vehicle that was driving, and it was not possible to account for how it had been carried out. This led to a number of newspaper articles but also to a post on Facebook from the haulage company itself. It's interesting that a customer actually puts his foot down on the slopes and says: You will have to take the goods back to the supplier and ensure that it is loaded onto a vehicle that meets the requirements. ..................................................... In an article it says that the combination had loaded the tires on Friday in Kungälv and then drove to Norrköping. The owner of the farm Clas tells me that he told DHL that they were involved in the slave trade. He loaded on Friday and it takes five hours to go to Norrköping, for 48 hours the driver is in the cabin without the possibility of good hygiene. Moreover, the precautionary measures required in these coronatides are not in line. ..................................................... The army contacted the police but was told that they can't do anything if the combination doesn't roll on the road. This is a little interesting, because this is where it's getting exciting. The police gave the reporter the answer that they can't do anything because the vehicle doesn't roll on the road. In this case, it may be suspected that the combination broke the rules for driving and rest periods, which is therefore a serious violation of the common rules we have. The answer from the police is rather strange given that the Vehicle Act(2002:574) states that, among other things, the flying inspection is carried out to check that a vehicle found in traffic meets the required requirements for the protection of life and health. This is the basis for a flying inspection. The law also states that the flying inspection may be carried out on a vehicle that is found in such circumstances that there is reason to assume that it has been used in traffic in close proximity to the arrival. It is therefore not necessary to take a rolling vehicle; it is sufficient to assume that it has been used in traffic in close proximity to the arrival. In this case, it was quite obvious that this was the case. I shall continue with the legislation in my second speech. This shows, however, why the police are not getting their results. You don't even go out on what can be considered a sitting bird, and that's remarkable.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-249	Madam President, I would like I think it is important for those following this debate that the background is clear. Until 2014, in principle, no efforts were made to limit illegal cabotage traffic and infringements of driving and rest rules. We did not have a mobility package in Europe. We had a bourgeois government which, with the support of SD among other things, did not make any effort in terms of classing, ordering requirements or, for that matter, other demands that we should have fair conditions in the haulage industry. It seemed reasonable to be able to drive to push down prices and have flexibility in the transport sector. We had a change of government in 2014. Since then, we have clapping, fines, ordering liability and winter tyre requirements. We have a completely different order. We have now negotiated a mobility package. We have additional resources for the police, both general resources – we have never had as many police employees as we have now – and earmarked resources for an increase in checks on professional traffic. To this we have an investigation into further checks on professional traffic. For this government, and for the former Social Democratic-led government, this is a priority. It is both about the working conditions of those working in the transport industry and about the conditions of competition for a Swedish haulage industry that wants to take its responsibility. It is also about clear signals to Swedish transport buyers about what responsibility they have to actually ensure that we have fair conditions and safe drivers on our roads. I appreciate the initiative that the industry has taken with Fair Transport 2.0, which certifies and ensures that transport buyers know that it is the fairest conditions and good and safe vehicles that carry out the transport. I appreciate that our resources now, with reinforcements, have yielded results – in the case of the police, it has gone from 385 620 to 427 000 control days of driving and rest time rules. There has also been a substantial increase in cabotage controls. It gives results, but I am not content with this. That is why we have set up the investigation into more effective professional controls. We need to ensure, not least now that the mobility package is the place, that we not only implement it but also have a better control of professional traffic and that it is the right conditions for competition. In addition, we must ensure that drivers are not pressured to violate driving and rest time rules with the risks involved, not only based on working conditions but definitely also road safety risks. We take this political responsibility by earmarking resources, by ensuring that we get tougher legislation in Sweden and by also actively and successfully pursuing these issues in the EU. And it should be borne in mind that the Swedish Democrats and the group they belong to in the EU were not promoters of the mobility package, but several of the corresponding party friends of the Swedish Democrats in European countries have opposed such a system. I think it's important that we have order. And I see it as a success for Sweden, for Swedish commercial traffic and for the Transport Workers' Association that we now have a mobility package in place with increased possibilities for controls via smart tachographs, via new technology and GPS surveillance and not least through reinforced resources to the police. This is how we are now creating better conditions than ever, and that is necessary, because then we are able to both make the driver's profession attractive and give the hauliers the right conditions for their commitments. And we give the clear signal to transport buyers that when they order transport, they have a responsibility to ensure that it is the right conditions and safe vehicles. That is how we work, and it is successful.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-258	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Tomas Eneroth. I have said it before, and I say it again: it is much better if we stick to a correct history. Who pushed the issue down in Europe? It was our Member Peter Lundgren, together with the late Jens Nilsson, who was involved in this work. That's the correct description. Then both the Social Democrats and we Swedish democrats in various groups have had members who have worked against the mobility package, but with common forces and with the resources that Peter actually put into the EU we finally got the mobility package – very important. There is an enormous amount of transport on the roads that does not comply with the regulations, and the Government knows just as well as I do. In the case I mentioned here, I get annoyed when I read that the police refuse to go out and make a check on what is viewed as a sitting bird. When a company actually goes in and says that it was not fair, that they believe that the transport does not comply with the regulations and therefore does not accept the goods, it would be an extremely important mark from the government to act to show the company that it cares. That was not done in this case. Then I do not know what could have been discovered in the form of crimes in that transport, but it would have happened if the police had knocked on the door and went to the driver and looked at what he could account for. It's extremely important. There is support in Council Regulation 561 paragraph 8 for not taking a normal weekly rest period in the vehicle, but outside. If you then sleep in a hotel or somewhere else, it doesn't matter. The problem is that the authority does not meet the requirements. This has been written in their annual report, which is published in the report from Linköping University. The 100 million that the government has contributed to the police are great, but they can only account for 2.6 of the 100 million. Where did the rest go? That's a good question. 400 policemen have been trained in cabotage; that is true. The catch is that very many of them have internal service, and there is very little cabotage transport inside the police station, I can assure you. Of course, it is good that there is an investigator inside the house who can pursue matters further. However, it is on the road that you must have officials who put an end to transport that does not comply with the rules. It is a scourge for the serious entrepreneurs that there are people involved in criminal activities. There's nothing easier today than starting a trucking operation. You go and buy a used truck. Then you get all the register information, sit down at the computer and order a Bulgarian plate and get it in the mail. You order a person online that comes with a minivan. Then it's just up with it in the cab. Just give the order through a prepaid phone. No one can get to them. This is the concern, and this is what serious entrepreneurs should compete with. You can't do that. Resources must be deployed here, and they must be powerful. The fact that an investigation has been set up is great; I say nothing else. But create resources in what exists today!
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-266	Madam President, I would like Not least with regard to the latter, it is probably so important that the Swedish democrats have the view that the parliament should also meet expectations when it comes to requirements for controls when starting a business, demands for efforts and increased efforts against financial crime and tax evasion. Here, the Swedish Democrats have not always been the most driving forces, but have joined other parties that have counteracted such controls. We need proper control activities to ensure that the entrepreneurs out there who are doing well are given fair conditions of competition. That is what I have been working on as Minister of Infrastructure through the mobility package, where not least Jens Nilsson – peace over his memory – together with Johan Danielsson today in the Transport Committee made incredibly important contributions. When the mobility package is now to be implemented, we will ensure that we get an equal and tough application in all European countries. Then we can combine free movement with good working conditions but also with increased control activities. The efforts we make bear fruit. The police now have 40,000 more days of control. It's important. The earmarked resources we have provided produce results, not least in the form of more cabotage controls and even more car inspectors and employees. But as I've said before, I'm not content with that. I want us to move forward; therefore the investigation into more effective professional controls. There, perhaps, the target is a professional traffic inspection inspired, I have to say, by the way in which Germany has worked with BAG, so that checks in the field are in place to monitor to a greater extent. As we now have smart tachographs and increased digitalisation, we have better and better opportunities to technically monitor where the vehicles are. It will be necessary to meet the requirements of the mobility package for cabotage transport to be of a temporary nature, for it to return home or for the vehicle to return home. I think it is absolutely necessary to create order. This is the complex of problems that we have addressed during the years of government. We have made sure that we now create both hope for the future and faith in Swedish haulage industry. I am also pleased that the haulage companies themselves, through Fair Transport, have taken their initiative. What I hope and want is that everyone who is passionate about these issues – I know that Thomas Morell also does – is now clear to transport buyers in Sweden. There are large companies in Sweden that buy many transports, and they have a customer responsibility but also a moral responsibility. There are no free shipments. They'll cost you. If we want safe vehicles on our roads, we want drivers who are well trained and who comply with rest time rules, it costs. But the advantage is that we as motorists should be able to feel safe on the roads and know that the great combinations we encounter are actually safe combination. Let us work together to give the police better control opportunities, create better technical opportunities, use squeezing, sanctioning opportunities and customer responsibility, but also work together with the industry and Fair Transport. Then there are opportunities for the haulage industry to become attractive again, a nutrition that you want to work in where the image of the driver's profession is not a parking space where you live in the cab and cook outside the cab, but that it is nice working conditions and an interesting and exciting job. It needs an industrial country like Sweden, and that's my target.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-272	Madam President, I would like I thank Tomas Eneroth for his answer. I must disappoint the Minister. As far as digitalisation is concerned, there is nothing as analogue as crime. I have said many times that cheating has never been as easy as it is today. These digital tachographs are garbage, to be honest. It is so easy to turn them off, and you can drive around the clock without anyone discovering it. If you trust that this technology will be the solution, you will be disappointed. I have said this before, and I say it again: the Transport Agency is not on the track when it comes to getting at those who deliberately cheat. Then you have to have good officials who can call in where the driver has been when questioning on the road. Where's the vehicle coming from? It is sent out e-mails to the drivers where it says that they should not drive past for example Malmö and Helsingborg or Västerås and Eskilstuna because the police there are good. They are encouraged not to carry a CMR older than the latest incoming freight transport. They are also urged to hide all documents so that the police do not find them when they enter the cabin. These are recommendations sent to drivers who enter and commit criminal activity in the country. If we are to get to grips with this, we must have feet out on the road that do controls and not hang up on the belief that the digital equipment will help, because it does not. Before the new printer is on the market, the bad guys have already started selling manipulation equipment. That's how fast it goes. So unfortunately, Tomas Eneroth, this is no solution.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-276	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for this. I'll honestly say that no matter how much I appreciate the activities and controls on the road – which are an important part of the work to get more effective controls, better staffing and increased control activities – I am, unlike Thomas Morell, a technology optimist. I think there is a lot to do when it comes to digital controls – to be able to monitor GPS and actually use new technologies to see flows and know where to make efforts. I believe that the police have many good examples of how successful it can be throughout their record of law enforcement activities. Let us therefore ensure that we both use analogue methods and digital methods to create order in professional traffic, ensure that we have fair conditions of competition and that there are good working conditions for those who work there with collective agreements, with trade union rights and with good pay and the right to further training. You should follow driving and rest rules. This is what the Transport Workers' Association, the Åke companies and all the others are working for. Let's make it possible. Sweden needs a well-functioning haulage industry. Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country that needs good transport. We do today, but we need to develop them so that it becomes even more effective but also attractive to work in the transport industry. That's why control is good. That's what we've been working on, and that's what we're developing.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-278	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I and the government have taken any targeted measures to support professional fishing now during the Corona crisis, why I delay notification of the permanent compensation for professional fishing, whether I can guarantee the national co-financing required for the permanent compensation and, if so, when such a system can be in place in Sweden and whether I intend to take any measures such as regulatory simplifications to strengthen the competitiveness of professional fishing. Following the spread of the disease covid-19, the Government decided on 25 June and 2 July 2020 to amend the maritime and fisheries programme and on a regulation on aid for temporary cessation of fishing activities. The amendments allow for aid to be granted in the event of temporary cessation of fishing activities, the so-called ‘settlement support'. These decisions were necessary in order to create a financial and legal framework for the still payments, since the aid was not included in the framework of the maritime and fisheries programme. The preparation of such decisions is time-consuming, so notification of aid could only be given on 15 June 2020. I am pleased that the still support is now in place and hope that it will help professional fishing through this crisis. The Government is continuously working on measures aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the agricultural industries, including professional fishing, such as regulatory simplification. When the interpeller reported that he was prevented from attending the meeting, the other Vice-President admitted that Ann-Sofie Alm could instead take part in the debate.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-280	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The very essence of this interpellation was the introduction of sedentary compensation. This has already been introduced. All of us who love shellfish in general and Norway lobsters in particular should be very happy about that. Nevertheless, I and my colleague Johan Hultberg, who have put this interpellation but who are prevented from being here today, are strongly critical of the Government's meekness in this regard. As the Minister mentioned, she felt that things were going a little too slow. When the coronapandemin hit, the Swedish fishermen saw the prices of Norway lobster dive while it was high season for crayfish fishing. It is not difficult to imagine the concerns you feel as an entrepreneur in an industry where margins are already tough. The hope was sparked when the EU Council of Ministers decided on a standstill allowance. Then they had to wait until the beginning of the summer for the Swedish Government to announce that the aid would be introduced. There were probably many thoughts that could pass through the heads of these entrepreneurs. Amortizations and bills didn't stop coming. The Pacific aid was an emergency measure that we are now finally seeing is in place. But it is remarkable, Madam President, that Swedish fisheries needed further competitive disadvantages because our Swedish Government acted far too slowly. It is ominous that the government is slow on relevant proposals to strengthen fishing in the short term and in the long term. It is equally ominous that there seems to be no plan to achieve a stable fishing industry. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister what measures she and the Government intend to take to strengthen Swedish professional fishing, both in the short and long term.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-285	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Sofie Alm for being able to take part in the debate instead of the interpellier, so that the debate actually takes place. I always and gladly debate this type of issue with colleagues in the Riksdag. I think there is a great profit in that we have high ceilings, that we are constructive and that we are constantly looking for ways forward. However, I do not, of course, share the view that the government was unnecessarily slow. I would have liked to have said that we could have made decisions more quickly. However, with the relationship that Sweden had compared to many other countries that were quick in this area with the introduction of covid-19-based still support – that is what we are talking about in this situation – it was this opportunity that the Commission opened up to at the end of April. The difference for Sweden was that we did not have standing support in our programming period for the current period. It meant that it was a very extensive task to produce a new programme proposal, propose amendments, secure co-financing and so on, and to do so in such a way that we could be quite sure that the European Commission would also approve the proposal that we then submitted, so that we would not get back on what had meant an additional great amount of time and created both confusion and uncertainty for this profession. Making a programme change sometimes takes several years. Now we did it in two months. That is why I do not share the picture that is being given. We were working on as much as we could. We also had continuous dialogue with the industry throughout this process, including about the support packages that the government delivered more generally. It must be borne in mind that during this period a number of different proposals were made to help business survive the crisis. It was about lifting sick pay liability and allowing for the suspension of tax payments. It was also about conversion proposals and so on. However, these subsidies do not hit fishermen well, and that is why we decided quite quickly that we want to seize the opportunity to introduce sedentary support during the last part of the programming period – and do so in such a way that we can get it in place as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible. So that was the government's priority all the way. I also had a dialogue with and was in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on two occasions, I think, and informed about the work of the government on this point. So it has been important and good. Then I agree with one thing you say, Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm, which I think is important. It's about what you raised in your last question. I don't remember exactly how you put it, but I wrote it down in the short and long term. This is precisely what it is about: this is an industry that has very low profitability and which is having a tough time. It is sensitive to the type of disruption that is now coming – or for that matter when quotas need to be changed in order to ensure that there will be long-term fishing. There is therefore a great need to work with both short-term and long-term measures, and the government does both. For example, we have provided funds to improve the marine environment, which is part of the fact that there are problems with stocks. We have made it possible to hunt for licences, which is another part of the fact that there are problems with stocks. We have made it possible for fishermen to be part of environmental work, for example by collecting marine litter, and have made changes to regulations that have created those opportunities. We are also working on a marine strategy for how we will be able to get a industry that is more stable in the long term, perhaps with more differentiated operations. So the work is in progress, and I am happy to hear constructive thoughts and ideas from all interested people in this area about how we will be as good and effective as possible in this work.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I had hoped that the Minister would respond to the last part of my interpellation, which was about regulatory simplification. This is an industry that is very heavy on the regulatory burden. Long-term measures are needed to strengthen the competitiveness of professional fishing, which means regulatory simplification and a reduction in red tape. Unfortunately, however, it is quite quiet from the government on this particular subject, Madam President – although I think it is very good to work on licensing and other strengthening measures. To strengthen Swedish professional fishing is to strengthen an entire region. The fishermen feel that they are working hard in the headwind when the government instead goes ahead with proposals for camera surveillance of professional fishing. It is a serious proposal from a privacy point of view. Another proposal that the government puts as a sinker on Swedish professional fishing is the introduction of a general ban on trawl fishing in protected areas. Our fantastic Bohuslän fishermen carry out sustainable fishing for all the rules of art. They are at the forefront of environmental work and are at the forefront of innovative tools. A general ban on trawling would risk putting away the bones of many shrimp fishermen in Bohuslän. To combat sustainable development in this way is totally counterproductive, and it also contradicts what the Minister has just said about working with the environment. For entrepreneurship, employment and food security, it is incredibly important to invest in Swedish professional fishing. I hope, Madam President, that the Minister will come and visit our fine fishing fleet and see the sustainable development work they do – and also try to eat all our delicious delicacies that are fished up. It is a traditional craft industry, a high-tech industry and a tourism industry that the whole of Sweden benefits from, and this is now in danger of getting to the bottom. So far, unfortunately, the current government has been a nave for Swedish professional fishing on the Bohus coast, but I really hope that there will be a constructive dialogue in the future on how we can strengthen this together. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, Madam President, how the government intends to involve Swedish professional fishing in achieving the objectives of the food strategy. Increasing exports of Swedish fish is also a very good way to increase employment, profitability and welfare.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-298	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm – especially because you looked a little embarrassed when you talked about the government's bottom snap; it honors you that you thought it was a bit hard to say it! It is not my view that there is a major political conflict about how we deal with the whole of these issues. On the contrary, I feel that when we talk about the food strategy as a whole, which we shall have a debate on in a moment, there is a great deal of consensus on what we want to achieve with it. Then we have different balances and priorities politically about how to get there, and that's how it should be. There should be a heated debate, and we should raise different issues depending on where we come from. There was a call for me to say something more about regulatory simplifications. I believe that this is a very important issue, and it is one of the key elements of the food strategy – of which fishing is actually a part. In the action plan delivered just before Christmas, Action Plan number two, one of the four priority areas is precisely regulatory simplification for the whole chain. It has given authority mandates to identify which rules are inappropriate and should be reviewed or changed in order to create better conditions for companies to operate rather than having to engage too much in administrative and regulatory burdens. At the same time, we know that we are talking about food, and there are great demands to ensure that food is safe. This means that in some sense it will always be reasonable or rather regulation-heavy anyway, and therefore you need to work on how to make it easy to do the right thing. Developing digital platforms and other support to entrepreneurs in this work is another priority in the context of the Food Strategy. When it comes to dealing with the covid-19 situation and its impact on various industries that we have done during the spring, I can note that, from the Ministry of Industry's area and from my portfolio, we have had a continuous dialogue with all stakeholders. Indeed, we have had this throughout the crisis, and we have allowed the actors to bring in what they see as obstacles and problems in the situation. We have worked actively to try to remove obstacles. On the specific side of fishing, it was pointed out, among other things, that traceability information is routinely heavy and difficult and that it became particularly problematic when you needed to move fish from one segment, i.e. hotel and restaurant, to another segment, namely trade, in order to ensure that you had sales for your products. That is why we introduced temporary facilitations for traceability information, which is valid for the time being. At the same time, there is a mission that HaV should look at the issue in a longer perspective, because this is actually something that has been brought in from the profession for a long time. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm raises several other major issues that may actually deserve an interpellation debate was, because it is a bit difficult to say something serious about them in a very short time. But camera surveillance, for example, is something that will be proposed, most likely within the framework of our European cooperation. It has proved to be a desirable tool linked to securing the landing obligation, which is a problem in many countries and which, by extension, will also become a problem for Swedish fishermen if they do not compete on equal terms. We have been in favour of this within the framework of EU cooperation, and we have proposed that we develop models for this – on a purely voluntary basis – with fishermen in Sweden. It is therefore a bit difficult to say that it would be very restrictive to allow them to participate in projects on a voluntary basis.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-305	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. If I may have looked somewhat embarrassed, it has nothing to do with what the profession thinks of government policy. It is more about the fact that I think the Minister actually wants better than the results show. In Bohuslän, the number of fishing vessels has decreased from 700 to 400 in ten years. The Minister can therefore understand that it is serious that one thinks that Swedish fisheries policy is a bottom-up. If the government really wants to protect Swedish fisheries, it is now up to evidence. The downward trend is fast. Of course, we Moderates want the coming generation to enjoy the delicious delicacies, but then there must be regulatory relief. It must be easier and more profitable to engage in professional fishing in Sweden. Swedish fishing develops more gentle and selective fishing gear than any other country. But when it comes to camera surveillance, the government must stop distrusting. Fishermen feel that when they make such proposals, they are distrustful of an entire industry. The fact that Swedish professional fishing is at the forefront must be prioritised and indeed rewarded. We Moderates want to create better conditions for professional fishing. Hopefully, the government also realises the benefits of developing sustainable Swedish fishing instead of limiting it. Then you might also stop being perceived as a sinker for the Swedish fishing industry. As a resident I know what the sea can give but also what the sea can take.
i-YMSA18LFay77317RdyijQm	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm! My comment was more about that we have to think a little bit more about rhetoric. It's always a difficult balance. Most of us think so. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm mentioned selective and gentle tools as examples of something that Sweden is good at. That's a picture I'm sharing. I also mean that we should continue to be good. There are conditions to do more and to create sustainable fishing. That's what we all want. My picture is that that's also what the fish want. It is recognised that if there are no viable and sustainable stocks, there is no industry for future generations. On that we are very much in agreement. Then we prioritise and value in different ways when it comes to wise ways of getting there. I really believe that it is only in dialogue with the industry that the best solutions can be found. That is why we have tried to reward a good dialogue. We listen to their comments and weigh them. But we have also been careful to listen to science, scientific advice and recommendations. Fisheries policy is bigger than Sweden as a nation. Much of it is linked to global markets and is within the framework of EU cooperation. This means that Sweden, which is a small nation and an even smaller fishing nation, in these contexts has had to work quite hard to become a credible voice, which has been important. I intend to continue that work. I intend to continue the dialogue with the industry on what we can and must do in the short term, but also on what is desirable in the long term. I also look forward very much to constructive ideas and input from the Moderates and Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm in that area.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-315	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me whether I will take further initiatives to strengthen our level of self-sufficiency and achieve the objectives set in the food strategy and when Swedish farmers at farm level will see the actual effects of the food strategy decided on. For the government, the objective of the Food Strategy is a priority. The overall objective of the food strategy is a competitive food chain where overall food production increases while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives, with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. The increase in production, both conventional and organic, should respond to consumer demand n. Strengthening and increasing the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture is also an important point in the substantive agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. Swedish food production is crucial for jobs and growth in rural areas. A powerful peasant package will be implemented to strengthen liquidity and competitiveness. Part of this is that the Government decided in December 2019 on a new food strategy action plan. The action plan includes investments of SEK 122 million annually up to 2025. In addition, an additional investment of SEK 114 million will be made in 2020. It includes long-term measures up to 2025 and is an important step in increasing competitiveness and profitability through investment in research and innovation, regulatory simplification and skills provision. Examples include assignments to the Swedish Agency for Growth to identify rules that impair competitiveness, growth opportunities or innovation capacity for companies in the food chain, and to simplify government contacts digitally, including by creating services for coherent guided processes. Sweden needs a good food supply capacity. However, many of the foods we consume today cannot be produced in Sweden because we do not have the climate to grow certain products. Today's food supply system is complex and global. Food produced in Sweden is often dependent on global value chains for energy, manure, feed, seeds, plant protection products and machine parts, for example. Labour also travels across national borders. It is therefore important to ensure, as far as possible, open trade, within the EU and with third countries, even during crises. A country's food security is secured by both domestic production and imports. Increased Swedish food exports are also an important part of increasing Swedish competitiveness in the food chain. The provision of skills in the green industries is a priority for me, and the availability of domestic labour and skills is important to ensure livelihood. Within this spring's major investment in universities and higher education institutions there is also a significant investment in the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences for shortages, lifelong learning, summer courses and strengthening of the base year. The Government has also provided funding for additional places in regional vocational studies, universities of applied sciences and folk high schools, which also train in food production and green industries. Overall, these efforts strengthen skills and contribute to ensuring food security while at the same time combating unemployment. The Government has also investigated how both municipal adult education and upper secondary school can better contribute to Sweden's competence provision. The report is currently being consulted. The Government is also actively working to strengthen the supply of skills for tasks that require shorter training. This spring, SEK 150 million was allocated to develop under the leadership of the Swedish Forest Agency the skills of the unemployed and newly arrived to the shortage professions in the green industries. During the spring, SEK 11 million has also been added to the Swedish Agency for Growth to strengthen an existing assignment aimed at facilitating matching of the unemployed with the green industries. The food strategy's goal of increased and sustainable food production was decided in 2017 and is to be achieved in 2030. In order to achieve the objective of the food strategy, we need to work further through the food strategy action plan that I have already mentioned, but also through the way in which we design measures and actions in the coming period of the common agricultural policy starting in 2023. It is through this long-term and continuous work and with the goal in focus we can achieve it by 2030.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I have no doubt that the Minister has the best intentions in his work and mission. I would like to say that frankly. But the problem, as I also describe in the interpellation, is that there is no result that our entrepreneurs in the green and blue industries can benefit from. Madam President, I would like The Minister has not yet fully responded to the interpellation. Sweden's farmers are still waiting to know when at farm level they will see the actual effects of the food strategy adopted. So far, as the Minister said, it is decided on 122 million a year to 2025 and 114 million more this year. That's 846 million. The Swedish Agency for Growth has also received 11 million to match new arrivals. The Swedish Forest Agency has received 150 million for the development of the skills of the unemployed and newcomers, and the investment in aquaculture has received 7 million per year. I think I have calculated correctly when I get it to about 1,049 million kroner. However, farmers have not yet seen the smoke of any money. The LRF has today written an open letter to the Prime Minister and the Government. They wonder if it is not now time for the government to really stand up for the Swedish food strategy, which Parliament, the government and the green industries have decided together. This is a very relevant issue. Madam President, I would like The Minister says in his reply that the food strategy is a priority for the government. But why do we not see a powerful government around the government pushing for greater business profitability? Sweden's self-sufficiency in food is among the lowest in Europe and continues to fall due to poor profitability. Food supply is essential to rebuild the total defence in the defence decision to be taken this autumn. But where is the Secretary of Defense? The investment in aquaculture is heavily damaged by the fact that it takes years to obtain an environmental permit. Investors flee to our neighbouring countries where permits only take a few months. But where's the Secretary of State? When the large salmon manufacturers want to establish themselves on the coast, when Dalsland's food producers need safer roads and when shellfish transport needs to reach the export route faster, where is the Minister for Infrastructure? When companies struggle with profitability in the wake of the Corona crisis, the Minister for Economic Affairs shines with his absence. Instead, the Green Party's government partner is resounding in today's industry that the tax burden should increase. I agree that we must ensure free trade in crises. Our farmers produce the safest and most high-quality food, but they should be the pride of the Trade Minister, the EU Minister and the Prime Minister to present in every conversation to increase our exports. But where are they? Sweden's agricultural companies need hope and confidence in the future. They need a government that believes in the entrepreneurship of the green industries and understands that everything is connected. The question therefore remains, Madam President: when will our Swedish farmers see positive results at farm level?
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-335	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for another very important question! It is well suited to further debate. This issue has been highly topical throughout the government's time in power. During the last parliamentary term, for the first time ever, both the policy and the industry were brought together around a food strategy. This is very important. When Ann-Sofie Alm now very well listed the measures contained in Action Plan 2, which applies from this year on, she forgets to say that we spent more than 1 billion in the last parliamentary term. In addition, for example, the compensation of almost EUR 1 1⁄2 billion given to agriculture in the last parliamentary term due to the drought. I think that this shows very clearly that this is a priority industry for the government. I am very proud to be part of a government that has had a clear focus on dealing with the problems that exist both short-term and long-term. This is a solid piece of work. I, too, often meet representatives of agriculture who say that they want to see more results at farm level. I have a great deal of respect for that. At the same time, it must be remembered that a strategy of its nature is about creating the conditions for the future. One reason for the lack of profitability and the challenges facing us today is the lack of a strategy in the past. When we compare ourselves with countries that are close to us and that are good at this – for example, Denmark is a country that is often compared to – we see that what is most different from them is that they have worked purposefully with strategies for a very long time. They have invested in research and innovation, product development, close collaboration, export strategies and so on. We are simply ahead of ourselves in this work. It must not in any way mean that we are not doing everything we can to both catch up and become better at what are Swedish forces in this context. While I am happy to admit that it is very important that we talk about our challenges, I think we also need to talk about what is quickly delivering results. For example, we can look at exports which are a very important key factor in this context. If we are to increase the Swedish self-sufficiency and profitability, this means that we need to reach a larger market than Sweden in order to gain volume and economies of scale in what we produce. We need to be able to get well paid for qualitative products, which is what Sweden produces and what we compete with. It can be seen that the targeted effort we have made on this particular industry within the framework of the export strategy is likely to have achieved results. We see that Swedish export shares are increasing. I think it was 9% last year, which is not insignificant. But of course this was from far too low levels. I took the number straight from my head, so take it with a little pinch of salt. Added to this is that we are working very actively to open up markets for food. Food is a product that is more difficult to export than many other goods. Many countries are more protectionist. It is difficult to enter large markets such as China or Japan and so on. There we have a very active effort to open up these markets with export protocols and other things. We drew one with the Philippines, for example, just before Christmas. We also have ready protocols for China. We're just waiting for China to be ready to sign them. All this is a very solid footwork that takes some time. But once that happens, I think it will have great results. However, what is important here and now for many farmers is the rule issue. I hope to come back to it in my next speech.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-344	Madam President, I would like Of course we can come back to the rule issue. This industry has 600 more rules to relate to than any other industry in Sweden. The task you have given to the Swedish Agency for Growth to identify the regulatory simplifications needed to make it easier for entrepreneurs should have been a simplification commission at the Swedish Board of Agriculture, as the Moderates have previously done. As the Minister says, it will be good to cooperate with the industry. Simplifying government contacts digitally is something else that the Minister describes as an initiative. But fibre is needed for this. It is strange that the government says one thing while the government's extended arm, the Board of Agriculture, does another when you withdraw subsidies in order to be able to carry out the proper fiber investments in rural areas that are needed. The LRF has estimated that only four regions are eligible. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, Madam President, which regions will be left without broadband spending when doing this. Perhaps it would be enough to ask what needs to be simplified, changed and improved to all farmers who have closed down their businesses in recent years. They know. The state requires too many unpaid hours in administrative control activities and too much tax from the money that Swedish agriculture earns from its activities. Over 90 per cent of our farms consist of one-man businesses or family businesses. If you really want to increase the production of food and increase employment in rural areas, you have to make it more profitable for entrepreneurs, because then they dare to hire and can be happy to develop something and feel the desire to do something good. This is really a simple equation. I sincerely hope that this is what the government's peasant package will contain. Madam President, I would like The Minister mentioned in his reply that the relevant national environmental objectives should be achieved. I can agree that you may not have to achieve the irrelevant. However, I am a little curious about who the irrelevant ones are. For example, the Swedish Parliament has decided that 60 per cent of Sweden's procured food in the public sector should be organic. A lot of knowledge is needed for us to achieve it. Small regions and municipalities do not have such knowledge. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, Madam President, how the government intends to increase food production when the targets are not about the knowledge of the lowest possible environmental footprint and local production. As it is now, it will be right to buy organic tomatoes from Spain instead of crossing the street or going to the neighboring farm to the neighboring solar-powered greenhouses. Something else that worries me is the water supply. If we want to secure our sustainable agriculture, we may need to stop the demolition of old dams and instead make it profitable for rural businesses to invest in water reservoirs. Madam President, I would like I want to know how the government intends to make it possible to increase the profitability of Sweden's agricultural companies in the short term but also in the long term.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-353	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that you work consciously both short-term and long-term, that you are able to endure and that you are constantly engaged in dialogue. It is a repetition of what I said in the last debate or possibly in my previous speech. But somewhere, that's what it's all about. Ann-Sofie Alm called for my fellow ministers on many of these issues. I do not share the view that they are absent, quite the contrary. Rather, I think that the point of emphasising that there must be more than one minister in everything where you want to bring about great change is that very few things are delimited in nature. For example, as Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm says, we need more broadband in Sweden for all entrepreneurs and individuals. This is particularly true of rural areas, although I can see that the broadband is very shaky even in the overnight flat in the Old Town during times when people are at home. This is an area where there are great investment needs and where the government spends a lot of money on the total. A small part of the money is in the rural programme, which we manage – it is far from all the broadband money that exists. You can't choose and choose which parts you pick out when you want to talk detail and when you want to talk whole. Either we talk one way or we talk the other. I believe that broadband could be handled with advantage elsewhere than under the rural development programme, i.e. through national systems. It could probably have been easier. But then it is based on the fact that we can get criteria that benefit rural areas and green industries into those systems, not just market incentives, because the market will never ever solve rural challenges. It is a matter of finding the right way in this, and it is discussions that are going on all the time. Civil defense was also mentioned. That is quite right – in the autumn there will be a bill that is part of total defence policy. Food supply is an extremely important part of civil defence. It became very clear when we got a pandemic – it required solid footwork of the entire chain. It was fantastic – it took a huge responsibility to ensure that logistics and other things worked when the conditions suddenly looked different, when consumers behaved differently and so on. This is something going on. We also need to ensure that we learn from identified weaknesses and shortcomings in the current system. In the area by area, I could list work that is under way and supports the whole. This is much wider than what we have done in my area. Something that is being done and which I would like to highlight, even though time passes quickly here in the speaker's chair, is linked to regulatory issues. I would like to note once again that it is a priority issue how to deal with them. It will be about removing or changing regulations that are no longer entirely optimal or relevant. It will be very important how we implement the new CAP programming period. The old system was very complicated in nature for those who would apply for the grants. We, within the framework of the European Union, have pushed it to be simpler. Rule changes have been a priority. We will take responsibility for delivering on it when we implement. Then you can also work with things that are about allowing consumers to make conscious choices. We know that consumers choose wisely when they can choose. Then information is important, for example in restaurants. We also work with public procurement, for example. I would be happy to come back to that in the next speech.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-361	Madam President, I would like Now that the Minister mentions information, I must tell you what happens when the county boards go out and warn against African swine fever. They do not write in a single word that you should choose Swedish food. Instead, they say that you should not throw away food – that can come from outside – in nature, because it may be infected with African swine fever. As far as information is concerned, we have a lot to work on. But when it comes to the Swedish agricultural industry, I can say that I am not entirely convinced that the whole government is behind the food strategy – then we would already have seen much more of it at farm level. The minister mentions CAP. Agriculture must not become a budgetary regulator, either in the EU or at home. We need our healthy good food both in good times and in times of crisis. I know that Swedish farmers want nothing more than to increase their production, export more, develop more and rejoice more, but it requires an attitude from the whole government and from the Riksdag that this is possible. It must not just be fine words in a debate or in documents. We should be proud of the heritage that our farmers care for the soil and carefully care for their animals. It's not free to keep our open landscapes open. But it's time for us to show respect back. In fact, it is time for the whole government to stand up for the food strategy on which we have all agreed.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-364	Madam President, I would like I am also very proud of our Swedish farmers. I am proud of all the actors in the Swedish food chain. I always am, but maybe a little extra during the pandemic. I'm deeply impressed by the way you stepped in and took responsibility. I think that was facilitated by the fact that we had started work on the food strategy. It has become used to talking with each other and focusing on finding solutions forward instead of just seeing each other as competitors. I think this was a receipt that it's starting to sit down now, and I'm deeply impressed by that. A great tribute to everyone in the chain! I was going to use the last few minutes to follow up on what I said about conscious consumers. I think it is very important that we work to eliminate regulatory problems, create opportunities for digitalisation and broadband, work with export, research and innovation and so on. But I think the fastest thing that gives effect at farm level is when consumers choose to buy food produced in Sweden and are prepared to pay for it. The work that the industry itself has done with, for example, the Swedish mark has shown fantastic results in how consumers choose in the fridge counter. When you can easily get information, you make smart, conscious and wise choices. During the pandemic we have seen that locally produced food has run out and could not be delivered. When instead of going to a restaurant, people wanted to buy some finer food and cook more food at home, the demand for it increased enormously. The work we are now doing to ensure that the conscious choices in the restaurant can also be made, I believe, will mean a great deal to the industry. I also believe that the work we are going to do to ensure that the public sector procures according to Swedish law will have an enormous impact on profitability – directly at farm level.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-367	Madam President, I would like Yasmine Posio has asked me whether I intend to work towards Sweden taking initiatives globally to lift the SRHR under the coronapndemine and take initiatives within the EU to halt reactionary developments in Europe regarding issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights. I share the questioner's concern about the effects of the coronapndemin on human rights. I welcome the possibility of dialogue on the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls, particularly as regards their sexual and reproductive health and rights, which is a high priority for the government. We have received several alarming reports from the UN and human rights organisations showing that gender-based violence is increasing in several countries while access to the SRHR is decreasing, especially among people in vulnerable situations in society. We receive signals that existing systems that protect SRHR and that have taken decades to build up are limited and dismantled. This is in some cases the result of a lack of gender equality analysis, in other cases part of a strategy by opponents of abortion who use the pandemic as a reason to limit these rights. This leads to reduced opportunities for safe delivery, reduced access to contraception and safe abortions, and increased difficulties for pregnant women in accessing healthcare. This is in line with previous lessons, including the Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone. The system built up to guarantee women and girls the right to sexual and reproductive health must be defended and resources preserved, not least in order to keep down child mortality and maternal mortality. During the spring, the government has published several articles and statements to specifically highlight gender equality during the pandemic. In May, I initiated a debate article specifically focusing on the gender perspective of the crisis. The article was signed by eight other women foreign ministers and the head of UN Women and has been published in several countries. Sweden and South Africa also initiated a joint statement calling on world decision-makers to ensure women's and girls' full enjoyment of the SRHR during the pandemic. This statement was supported by 59 countries and is planned to be followed up with a corresponding high-level meeting that Sweden will host together with UNFPA. The SRHR situation is often even worse in countries that are already fragile and affected by conflict. That is why I have held several meetings this spring with women peace builders and organisations working for women's enjoyment of human rights in conflict-affected countries. In this way, I have received my own first-hand information on how women's and girls' enjoyment of human rights has been threatened during the pandemic. These meetings have strengthened my view that the whole covid-19 response must be guaranteed and that the SRHR is a central part of this work. As Yasmine Posio also mentions, we have seen worrying examples of developments in Europe this spring, including in Poland and Hungary. It is important to protect and promote democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law, and that our standards do not shift in a negative direction in the light of covid-19. Sweden is a strong advocate of SRHR in the EU, and we are consistently in favour of increased commitment and commitment to the issues. Sweden has, among other things, systematically and consistently worked towards SRHR becoming an independent thematic area in the EU's new Gender Action Plan, the plan that governs gender mainstreaming of EU external assistance. This is expected to be adopted at the Foreign Affairs Council meeting at the end of November. I will personally continue to use the platforms and contacts I have to reach out and influence on these issues, both globally and within the EU.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-376	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, for her reply. An interpellation can be used to clarify differences and/or to raise an important topic on the agenda. This has a little more character of the latter, as sexual and reproductive health and rights tend to come in the last place – not for the Foreign Minister and me, but in society at large. This is one way to get it on the agenda. Unfortunately, I do not have time to highlight all the hair-traveling examples that exist on the effects of the absence of SRHR or deterioration in the area, but all are equally important to me and the Left Party. The ongoing coronapandemy has hit hard globally. Concerns about life and health have forced people to change their habits, and countries have imposed different levels of restrictions. The World Bank fears that with the spread of the Corona virus, poverty reduction will not be achieved at a sufficiently rapid pace to achieve the goal of eradicating extreme poverty by 2030. How different countries act will affect the democratic rights and freedoms of millions of people for a long time, not least in the SRHR area. When money, personnel and medical equipment go to combat the Corona virus, other parts of the care system stand back. Closed-down factories have led to a lack of contraception, which risks resulting in unwanted pregnancies as well as increased maternal mortality, venereal diseases and HIV. The UN Population Fund UNFPA fears that a six-month shutdown of society could lead to another 7 million unwanted pregnancies. Maternal health care has to stand back in many countries where resources are scarce, which risk leading to unnecessary suffering and serious complications, at worst death. But contraceptives are not the only ones missing. In India, for example, there are no longer enough abortion pills, which means that girls and women who want to have a medical abortion are forced to have a surgical procedure with all that entails. In these times, some leaders have tried to impose restrictions on the right to abortion by blaming the need for staff and equipment in the fight against Corona, even if this is not the case. In the United States, opponents of abortion breathe morning air, and their ugly methods have been expanded by their coughing at girls and women who go to abortion clinics. UNAIDS warns that shutdowns in society in the wake of covid-19 have a negative impact on access to HIV medicine, and HIV mortality is expected to increase by 10% over the next five years because of this. Violence and sexual abuse against women and girls are already taking place too widely throughout the world. In these times when people are expected or ordered to stay at home, violence and sexual abuse increase. And that happens in all countries. Sweden, France, Argentina, Kenya, USA, India – nowhere in the world are women and girls safe from men's violence. It is very good that Sweden continues to hold the flag high when it comes to SRHR, and it is good that Sweden has re-allocated aid to fight pandemics. At the same time, however, the world has seen large locust swarms and floods, and Yemen is still being bombed, including with the help of Swedish weapons. That is why we in the Left Party have budgeted for additional aid of 500 million to counter the effects of the pandemic. My question is this: how does Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, see to it that, in addition to ensuring that the SRHR is on the agenda even during this difficult pandemic, also increase aid now that the world also has several other crises?
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-386	Madam President, I would like I thank Yasmine Posio for raising this very important issue. It is really needed in these times. Sweden's feminist foreign policy continues with full force even during the current pandemic. Ultimately, we are working hard to ensure that the global response includes a gender perspective in both the short and long term. There is a great risk that a justified strong focus on combating covid-19 will lead to increased disease and more deaths in other areas, including sexual and reproductive health. SRHR care risks being classified as non-necessary care and removed as a priority in favour of covid-19-related healthcare. This can lead to reduced chances of safe childbirth and safe abortions as well as less opportunities for pregnant women to receive care. With a crisis will also lose income, increased poverty, powerlessness and intolerance – all factors known to have a negative impact on SRHR. In particular, young girls and women are further exposed both to sexual and gender-based violence and to unwanted pregnancies resulting, for example, from school closures. During the Ebola crisis in Sierra Leone, maternal mortality increased by 34% as a result of the re-prioritisation of resources. Nearly 4,000 people died in Ebola. At the same time, child and maternal mortality reached a record level of 45 000. Reports from Nepal during the pandemic also show an increase in infant mortality during childbirth. The system that has been built up to ensure women and girls the right to sexual and reproductive health is central, not least to keep child and maternal mortality down. Sweden therefore continues to play a prominent role in SRHR issues on the international stage. Sweden, for example, is a core provider of support to several organisations within the WHO, the UN Population Fund UNFPA, the gender equality body UN Women and Gavi, which are instrumental in the fight to limit the virus and its negative consequences. I would also like to highlight Sweden's regional and bilateral work. Through our foreign agencies and Swedish aid, a great deal of commitment has contributed to promoting SRHR in our cooperation with other countries. Among other things, financial support to partner organisations as well as countries in Africa has been both increased and rapidly redirected to ensure maternal and child health programmes, access to contraception and medical abortion products, which are one of the things that Yasmine Posio mentioned, for particularly vulnerable teenage girls and women. So far, Sweden has decided to support the equivalent of 1 538 million for covid-specific operations, including the WHO Crisis Management Fund, the UN Humanitarian Appeal and the UN's long-term construction work. Sweden is working towards a clear gender perspective in these efforts. The budget work is in full swing. We will return to Parliament with a draft budget.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-395	Madam President, I would like Apparently it is perfectly possible to extend the RUT deduction to SEK 75 000 and also add new maid services in the form of silver cleaning and that someone else should wash the rich's dirty Armani shirts. But when it comes to people's lives, so far we have not seen any additional means. There we see the government's priorities. The pandemic has not only had effects on reproductive health and has led to increased violence against girls and women, but has also had consequences for the school's ability to break harmful patriarchal standards. Sexual education is a crucial factor in achieving good sexual and reproductive health but also in breaking, or at least reducing, a society's destructive standards and approaching gender equality. Not least we know this here in Sweden, and that is why we so strongly defend and advocate sex education. There are still a number of countries where it is not compulsory in teaching and a number of countries that are constantly close to removing it. It is these fragile, conservative and mostly nationalistic countries that are at risk now that the pandemic is preventing people from coming together to show their dissatisfaction. In Poland, the government presented a bill to criminalise sex education in the midst of the pandemic, although people could not go out and demonstrate against it. Unfortunately, Parliament did not vote down the proposal entirely, but it was sent to an extraordinary sub-committee for legislative amendments. Given the direction in which Poland has moved, there is an imminent risk that the amendment of the law will eventually go through. In April, Romania, which has the highest proportion of young people's pregnancies in Europe, introduced compulsory sex education. However, under pressure from the Catholic Church, which believes that sex education attacks the innocence of children, the obligatory was removed, and the school is now only allowed to offer sex education after guardians have agreed in writing that their children should receive it. During the coronapdemine, LGBTQ people are a particularly vulnerable group, and many are severely affected by restrictions and increased poverty. In South Korea, the media have identified gay clubs as the epicenter of a new wave of infection, which has alerted Amnesty, for example, to stigmatisation. In South America, several countries have flexible curfews, where women and men are only allowed to go out on different days. The restrictions strike transgender people, and there is much evidence that hate crimes have increased in this connection. In Hungary, Parliament has voted through several criticised emergency laws which give Prime Minister Orbán increased power and the right to rule by decree indefinitely. In this connection, a constitutional amendment prohibiting transgender persons from changing legal sex has been passed. It is good that Sweden is a strong advocate of SRHR in the EU and is working to make SRHR an independent thematic area in the EU's new Gender Action Plan. It is clearly not enough, however, now that we see Romania, Poland and Hungary introducing laws that severely impair the SRHR and restrict people's rights. We in the Left Party believe that it is time to withdraw EU money for Hungary, as it does not comply with the EU's human rights conventions. What is the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde on this proposal?
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-403	Madam President, I would like The serious limitations we see with regard to the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls are the result of a lack of gender analysis. It is an active strategy of anti-abortionists in the pandemic, and it is now being used to impose restrictions in the SRHR but also in relation to sex education and so on, as Yasmine Posio points out. I would like to emphasise that we in the European Union have consistently promoted the important role of the European Union as a global voice and that we constantly point out that human rights must also be fully respected within the European Union. Not least with the countries mentioned by Yasmine Posio, we have had discussions both bilaterally and within the EU. It can also be seen that the issue of making financial contributions to countries that do not comply with human rights, the principles of the rule of law and democracy has been increasingly raised on the EU agenda, including after Sweden, as one of the very first countries, raised this issue. This is now the result of the efforts made, both on the budget and on measures to combat the pandemic. One should have so-called conditionality, that is, those who do not comply with human rights, democracy or the principles of the rule of law – in short, what is stated in Article 2 of the UN Treaty on fundamental values – should not be able to receive the same financial support either. I would also like to say that, in various contexts, the EU and its Member States jointly reiterate that the SRHR should be protected during the ongoing pandemic, although it is problematic in some countries. After all, the social conservative Member States of the European Union are in a minority, and we must cooperate with the progressive forces that actually exist in those countries and which, I would say, are quite strong. For example, the protests by Polish women, when abortion laws have been threatened in various rounds, have led to the very worst proposals being resisted. It is not that there is a massive anti-SRHR movement in the entire population of these countries, but it has been about the governments that are currently sitting. An example of advocacy is the meeting on gender equality in foreign policy organised by the Spanish Foreign Minister during the spring. I participated, and we initiated an article on the importance of the issues. Another example is the EU Development Ministers, who met before Easter to discuss the EU's overall response to developing countries. We are also one of the leading countries behind a global coalition for economic equality, where initiatives are being taken to strengthen women's economic empowerment. Finally, I would like to say that LGBTI issues are among my absolute priorities. We run them within the framework of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' major drive for democracy, where all the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' 108 foreign authorities in different ways find things to pursue democracy and rights issues, including LGBTI people.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-409	Madam President, I would like The economic effects of the coronapndemine hit hard on those who are already in the toughest position. Women are over-represented in service professions and informal jobs, and many work with precarious conditions. When countries impose severe restrictions or lockdowns, they suddenly stand without income. We have all read about women who have felt forced into prostitution in order to make ends meet. As usual, it is girls and women who pay the highest price for living in a capitalist and patriarchal world. It is only when the world is equal and equal that crises do not hit low-income earners and women and girls hardest. We need to change today's unequal world, where some countries depend on the aid of the rich countries that suck out the poor countries' resources in the first place. Of course, it is good that the Foreign Minister lifts the SRHR in all the arenas that exist, but we know that this does not solve the basic problem. We have to start paying what it actually costs to produce a product with fair conditions and wages on which to live. What if Sweden could be the driving force to introduce human rights due diligence in all trade agreements and demanded it from Swedish companies that receive state aid in order to be able to establish themselves in other countries! And what if Sweden could sign country-by-country reporting so that companies cannot escape tax! These would be important steps in the right direction. As long as countries are forced to live under neo-colonial structures without a chance of escape from poverty and as long as a country is unequal and patriarchal, both women and girls will always have to pay the highest price, both in everyday life and, even more, in times of crisis.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-413	Madam President, I would like I greatly appreciate the commitment of Yasmine Posios and the Left Party to these issues. We share the goal of an equal world, and the government and parliament's commitment to the SRHR agenda is an important part of the work to achieve it. My talks with international actors and civil society this spring testify to crises and conflicts, combined with the increased resistance to gender equality and a shrinking democratic space in recent years. It can help undermine the ability of women's rights organisations and other civil society organisations to operate. We know today that the pandemic affects people differently despite its global development. It is important to be very aware of how women and men are affected differently by covid-19, which highlights the need for a continuous gender analysis and to integrate the gender perspective into all our actions. Sweden therefore, together with South Africa in the spring, took the initiative for a joint statement on the importance of protecting gender equality and the SRHR during the covid-19 pandemic, an initiative that 57 other countries joined. SRHR is a matter of life and death. In the fight against a pandemic, such as the covid-19 pandemic, we cannot move either focus or resources from other health sectors and everyone's enjoyment of human rights.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-417	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me how I intend to act to safeguard the lives of indigenous peoples, minorities and environmentalists on the grounds that companies may be involved in doing business that endangers them and the environment. As Lorena Delgado Varas describes, the global situation of those who are fighting for human rights and democracy, for the environment and for the climate is extremely vulnerable. Threats, harassment and violence against environmental defenders and human rights defenders are reported to have increased. The government takes this seriously. The primary responsibility for respecting, protecting and fulfilling human rights lies with the states. Sweden consistently highlights the importance of this, both multilaterally within the EU and the UN and in bilateral talks with third countries. If all states took on their responsibilities, we would go further in the work on entrepreneurship and human rights. However, companies also have a responsibility to comply with and respect human rights. That is why international regulations, such as the UN Guiding Principles or the OECD Guidelines, have emerged. The regulatory framework has a normative effect that makes a difference. However, it is clear that stronger tools are needed to ensure that human rights are respected by companies. We also see that the protection of people and the environment goes hand in hand. When a valuable environment is destroyed, it happens with dramatic consequences for the local population, who have their habitat destroyed, but the effects are also felt further away and by future generations. Sweden has a strong commitment to the issues of entrepreneurship and human rights and is a driving force in many fora. As stated by the 2017 EU Council on Indigenous Peoples, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights are relevant for promoting indigenous rights. Sweden actively encourages countries to join and assists those who have expressed a willingness to join and has, for example, contributed financially to the development of human rights plans in Asia. Promoting Swedish business interests is not in contradiction to working to strengthen respect for human rights. On the contrary, increased trade can act as a positive force for spreading principles of sustainable entrepreneurship. To contribute to Swedish companies' ability to manage risks associated with complex investments and business, not least in complex markets, the government launched a new platform for international sustainable entrepreneurship at the end of last year. The platform presents the government's policy for international sustainable entrepreneurship. The platform is based on the political orientation that the government has previously decided and presents measures that have been implemented and those that are planned to be implemented with a view to developing an international sustainable enterprise. It also describes different arenas, collaborations, actors and instruments that are central to how the government conducts its policy in this area. Regardless of where in the world Swedish companies seem, the government expects the international guidelines for sustainable entrepreneurship to be the starting point for their operations. This means, among other things, working for equality, good working conditions, the environment, climate and the fight against corruption. Business activities shall not cause, contribute to, or be linked to, violations of or abuse of human rights. Another important tool for change is to make demands through our trade agreements. As Lorena Delgado Varas correctly points out, the EU and Indonesia have been negotiating a free trade agreement since 2016. The Swedish Government has been the driving force for an ambitious sustainability chapter in the agreement that includes commitments on both social and environmental sustainability. This includes compliance with multilateral agreements, sustainable entrepreneurship, climate, biodiversity, forestry, fishing and more. The sustainability chapter creates an important platform for cooperation and dialogue between the parties. The agreement is also expected to strengthen the influence of civil society by creating an institutional framework for dialogue with civil society. At the moment, there are a number of very important initiatives on entrepreneurship and human rights in which we are involved. The Commission has announced a proposal for an EU-wide legislation on mandatory materiality analysis on entrepreneurship and human rights, known as human rights due diligence, but also for protection against environmental damage, known as environmental due diligence. Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynder has said that the proposal will cover all sectors and signalled that it will contain sanctions. Sweden is pleased that the Commission is making a proposal. We have a close dialogue with the EU Member States where we see increased engagement. This applies in particular to Finland and Germany, both of which have given priority to this issue in their EU presidencies. The government works in an integrated way to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law as well as protection of the climate and the environment.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-429	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Foreign Trade Hallberg. The Minister for Foreign Trade says that the primary responsibility for respecting, protecting and fulfilling human rights lies with the states, that Sweden consistently raises the importance of it and that if all states assumed their responsibilities, we would go further in the work on entrepreneurship and human rights. I agree, but perhaps I would like to focus a little more on corporate responsibility in this matter, especially given that today we have large companies that have organisation, structure and structure to try to circumvent responsibilities. States with a stable economy and democracy have a greater responsibility to ensure that these companies assume their responsibilities throughout the production chain. By making more demands on rich, democratic countries, we support the groups that are now being threatened, harassed, beaten and murdered and protect the nature that is being destroyed because these companies need to maintain profit and production regardless of the consequences. It is of course positive that Sweden supports the UN's guiding principles for entrepreneurship and human rights and that it calls on countries to join, although it would be good if they made higher demands on it. We in the Left Party are pleased that a proposal for a common EU law on human rights due diligence and environmental due diligence is under discussion. This provides a great opportunity to hold companies accountable legally for violations of human rights around the world. It is precisely human rights due diligence and environmental due diligence that the Left Party has been demanding for many years. We sincerely hope that this will go through and that it will not take too long before it is implemented, because the issue is extremely urgent. But why do we have to wait for Europe? Several countries are moving towards national legislation for human rights due diligence and environmental due diligence. Why can't Sweden do that? Why can Sweden not impose legal requirements on companies to respect human rights along the entire value chain?
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-434	Madam President, I would like I thank Lorena Delgado Varas for raising this issue. It is extremely central, especially in my mission as Minister of Trade. I believe that trade, as Lorena Delgado Varas says, has an opportunity to influence through companies and companies in the countries where they are active. On the issue of the need for legislation to clarify the responsibility of companies to implement this due diligence both in terms of human rights and in terms of the environment, I agree that we need to strengthen and clarify the requirements for companies, especially multinationals. There is a need for a review of the legislation in order to clarify what requirements are imposed on Swedish and EU companies. Therefore, Sweden has been strongly committed to this issue when it has come to the EU table. There are also a number of very important initiatives that we not only follow closely from Sweden but are also involved in. Among other things, in February the European Commission published a report – this is what we are talking about now – on EU-wide legislation. It has now been followed up by statements by both the Commissioner for Justice and the Commissioner for Trade. The Commission is also carrying out a series of studies in this area this year. Here we will – as we do – highlight perspectives that are important for Sweden and for Swedish companies to influence in the countries where they are involved, for example in terms of trade union rights, human rights in working life and the environment. Our view – and my view as Minister of Trade – is that it is by influencing Europe that we have a greater impact on our efforts. This does not mean that Sweden should be passive – far from it. But that Sweden, as an individual country, introduces legislation that does not go hand in hand with EU legislation, we do not see, or I, as an equally effective measure to achieve the goal that Swedish companies should be even more active in a positive direction and have even clearer demands to meet the sustainability requirements in a broad context that we in the government expect Swedish companies to live up to when they are active in the international market. Of course, we are also following the work of other countries on national legislation. Some countries have looked at and analysed national legislation, including within the EU. We are following this closely in Finland and Germany, for example, to see whether it will be put into practice or whether, in this case, in the case of our neighbours or countries close to us, European legislation will be complied with. Our basic position is that it is important for us to agree within the EU and for us to have a clear and strong action to be entrepreneurship requirements on sustainability issues. It is too early to say which points of EU law are the most important to highlight if it is the case that there is a negotiation, as it often does within the EU – it is 27 countries that are to agree on legislation. But for Sweden it is incredibly important to protect the rules, frameworks and conventions that are already applicable, so that they are not renegotiated. Today we have a bottom plate in the OECD and in the UN; this must also be incorporated into any EU legislation. We also need to ensure that we make clear what demands are made on European multinationals.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-444	Madam President, I would like Although more global requirements are good, I think absolutely that Sweden can lead the way by introducing such legal requirements nationally. In Europe, we have seen several examples of demands tending to become rather toothless after these discussions. I would like to highlight the importance of legal requirements. It is enough to look at how the so-called sustainability reports that we have for companies today have turned out. Half of the companies do not follow up on, among other things, how human rights are respected in their chain or in the chain of subcontractors. Sustainability reports have decreased rather than increased their reporting of human rights risks. Voluntaryism means that this development is going very slowly or not at all. This means that the companies promoted by the CSR Report are companies that do not respect this and that may even use the CSR Report as some form of greenwashing or washing through human rights. The companies that work consistently with this, however, are forced to compete with the global companies that have as their business idea to make profits by exploiting people and destroying their living environment. Here we must take our responsibility and ensure that the development of these companies does not continue in this way and force them to compete on a level playing field. When I asked the question last year, the answer was that the consequences of legal requirements on companies were so difficult to see. I hope that the government now sees how important legal requirements are for human rights to have the weight they need, especially in times of pandemic and crisis. We very much hope that the government dares to impose demands on companies, even though in recent days we have seen news showing that this is not the case – this despite the fact that some of these big companies are known to violate, among other things, workers' rights.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-450	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Lorena Delgado Varas that this is an absolutely central issue, not only for Swedish companies but for all companies. However, we can influence through the Swedish companies. Sweden is one of the most active countries in the EU in terms of driving the development of sustainability in a broad context and requirements for entrepreneurship. I would like to refer once again to the platform we developed for international sustainable entrepreneurship at the end of last year, together with the business community, to get the business community on board such a discussion. It is not just a discussion but also a platform for us to pursue the issues within the European Union. I would like to come back to the fact that I am convinced of the importance of working within the European Union, even when we are driving the development of new sustainable free trade agreements. This is not just about legislation on human rights and environmental aspects of sustainable entrepreneurship, it is also about sustainable free trade agreements. This is a point that I would like to highlight in this discussion, because there Sweden is one of the most active countries. A concrete example of this is that it worked when addressing the dispute settlement mechanism in the sustainability chapter of the agreement with Korea. Consultations were requested because the country had a lack of implementation of labour law obligations. I would like to see it as a combination and a palette of measures, both the European legislation that we are looking forward to and to which we are contributing now and the free trade agreements that we are actually able to influence, including in our daily trade with other countries. I know that the majority of Swedish companies have a high level of ambition in terms of sustainability. Of course, that is not enough; we, too, on the part of the government and on the part of the European Union, must ensure that there is a robust framework. Another example that the government has done in my time as Minister for Trade is that we have pushed the issue of credits, guarantees and financing in the export market towards a more sustainable direction. For example, we have made demands on the authority responsible for the Export Credit Board, which from 2022 will no longer be able to provide credits for fossil extraction. There we go much further than the OECD's requirements in its sustainability rules. We have also made demands on the authority to influence other countries' government credit organisations in this direction. I think that the Swedish Government has done a lot over the past year in a direction towards increased demands for sustainability for sustainable business. But I come back to the fact that it is at European level that we can, above all, make a greater impact and influence to a greater extent. But it is important that we are active in the negotiations in the EU and take a central role there and that Swedish companies should be a role model in terms of sustainability in the world. It is also an expectation from the government.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-457	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting that Anna Hallberg highlights the free trade agreements and the dispute settlement system. Just a short time ago, Argentina dropped out of talks on the Mercosur agreement precisely because of the dispute settlement system and what it means for the country when it is forced into an agreement that forces it to move in a direction that it does not want, especially now in times of pandemic when it needs to use all its power to save local and small businesses and does not risk the local production disappearing and making room for large companies from other countries. Here I would like to stop a little bit and talk a little more about the transnational companies. These are extremely complex structures. It can be said that the UN's guiding principles on entrepreneurship and human rights fail to capture the complexity of the global corporate structure. One addition to this is the United Nations Binding Treaty for transnational companies. It meets both the legal and organisational complexity faced by the victims of transnational companies in seeking justice. It is extremely difficult for smaller indigenous communities to resist the large transnational companies. The examples of conflict are many, such as drained rivers, child labor in mines, and so on. How does the government intend to face up to the complex transnational companies in order to ensure that indigenous peoples, for example, have a legal chance against them, given that they do not want to support Binding Treaty, which is just taking this up?
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-460	Madam President, I would like The UN principles for sustainable enterprise are also a platform. However, as I mentioned earlier, we see that this needs to be further strengthened with, for example, European legislation. We need clear sustainability chapters in our free trade agreements. There is now a draft of a new UN Convention on Business and Human Rights. Sweden should of course be active there and also in relation to that part of a global new consultation and to introduce a new convention text that will be published. We are, of course, in constant contact with both the Member States and the institutions of the European Union and are following this process closely. Through the EU, we are also having an impact on the UN Convention on Business and Human Rights that will come in the course of the year. With regard to free trade agreements, I would just like to comment that it is one of the few tools we sometimes have to get countries to sit down and discuss and also respect sustainability requirements, because there is also a huge commercial interest for countries to enter into free trade agreements with the EU. It goes back and forth in these discussions, and we have dropped out here, just as Lorena Delgado Varas mentioned. But I am convinced that in the long run it is precisely through trade that we can influence and through strong sustainability chapters in our free trade agreements. Finally, I would like to say that I fully agree with Lorena Delgado Varas that the multinationals are a complex issue. That's why we have to work at many levels. The Government's ambition is to work on UN conventions and EU legislation, but of course also to put pressure on the Swedish multinationals.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-464	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me, in the light of the difficulties in the labour market created by the Corona epidemic, whether I intend to review the KROM pilot project on the basis of the changing situation of the Public Employment Service. Furthermore, Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend to take any initiative to make it clear that it should be the job seeker's needs rather than the business opportunities of commercial operators that govern the employment agency's instructions. The ongoing virus outbreak has significant consequences for the Swedish economy and the labour market. In order to alleviate the impact on the labour market and better respond to developments with increasing unemployment, the government has taken a wide range of measures. These include a temporary increase in unemployment insurance, training places in universities and higher education institutions and increased opportunities for vocational training throughout the country. In order to strengthen Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to deal with the current situation, the Government has decided on increased funds for both the Agency and for labour market policy programmes and interventions. An increased number of unemployed means that Arbetsförmedlingen prioritises the tasks required for enrollment and planning discussions with job seekers. This is a prerequisite for being able to provide them with compensation in the event of unemployment and support for them in getting to work. The Authority has therefore temporarily redeployed its human resources while further intensifying its recruitment efforts. In the current situation, Arbetsförmedlingen needs to use all available tools. Increased use of independent actors reduces the risk that Arbetsförmedlingen's prioritising of public authority needs to be done at the expense of being able to offer active efforts to jobseekers. In line with this, the Government has also commissioned the Public Employment Service to rapidly streamline the processes for deciding on instructions for procured matching services so that the number of participants can increase significantly. The resources provided to increase the number of participants in matching services also contribute to progressively increasing the capacity of suppliers to offer services in the reformed system. At the same time, work is under way to reform the Employment Service. As a step in a gradual, orderly and responsible implementation of the reform, Arbetsförmedlingen has been tasked with introducing developed matching services in 2020. In this way lessons can be learned in the context of the forthcoming reform of the system. The Arbetsförmedlingen has chosen to introduce developed matching services in the form of the Customer Selection service equip and match(KROM). The government is closely following developments, and the Ministry of Labour has an ongoing, close dialogue with the agency. With regard to Ali Ali's second question, it is always a labour market policy assessment that forms the basis for the work of a job seeker. In practice, this means a balanced assessment of whether the action is appropriate both for the individual and from a broader labour market policy perspective. Commercial operators' business opportunities are not part of that assessment. At the same time, the Government believes that the labour market policy assessment needs to be made more consistent and accurate so that labour market policy measures can be used more effectively given the available funds. In line with this, the Authority has also been given the task of developing the labour market policy assessment.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-470	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply and for the opportunity to discuss this important issue. I must admit that I was not immediately relieved by the Minister's reply. Already before the pandemic, Arbetsförmedlingen was in a difficult and rather messy situation due to a combination of many factors, including the wording of the January Agreement, which involves a rather extreme and ideologically one-track transformation and largely commercialisation of parts of Arbetsförmedlingen's activities. In this situation, the world has also suffered a severe pandemic, the effects of which, of course, have also been felt here. There is a great deal to be said about the actions of the government, the authorities and, not least, the health services in a very difficult situation for people in our country. Much has also been done to try to mitigate the economic effects of the pandemic. However, we still have a sharp rise in unemployment. It is important to stress that much of our economic and social future will be affected by how we, as a society, manage this unemployment. Against this background, there is, unfortunately, cause for concern. In fact, a wing-cut employment agency had, even before the influx of new unemployed, major problems in providing people with the support they need and which the employees of the Employment Service really want to be able to provide. Now they are being pressured in a way that risks becoming completely untenable. In his reply, the Minister for Labour mentions several measures taken by the government, such as the unemployment fund and increased opportunities for vocational training. That is very good, and these are things that the Left Party has also been pushing on about for a long time. However, what is mentioned about the decision to increase funds is quite obviously inadequate. It is far less resources than the Authority needed even before the pandemic. I therefore very much hope that the government will follow these needs closely. What strikes me in particular with the Minister's reply here is that the picture that is being painted is very different from the picture that is given if you talk to employment agencies on the floor, with trade union representatives and also with people who are in a vulnerable situation as unemployed. Rather, there is the picture that the long-term unemployed can be squeezed away when the scarce resources go to helping new unemployed with enrolment. These can be so concrete that people get rid of subsidised employment, which can be very crucial for people in a difficult situation and that they do not have human resources to deal with, for example, new wage benefits, despite the fact that there are interested employers. People who, for various reasons, find it difficult to fend for themselves without personal help must nevertheless be left to their own digital destiny. What worries me is that the Minister, at least not in this response, does not seem to see or want to see this reality, but instead perhaps devotes his energy to putting into practice the rather imaginative ideas that the Centre Party and Liberals have got into the January Agreement. It was based on this that I brought up the KROM project – Customer selection equip and match. We have a lot of serious problems in Arbetsförmedlingen with getting basic tasks to work. There is great concern about notice, redundancies, relocations, office closures and so on. To put the priority on top of this on a large-scale and resource-intensive experiment in a number of municipalities in Sweden I do not think, unfortunately, breathe such responsible management. I hope the Minister can say more about this.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-477	Madam President, I would like We are currently in the most serious position we have had in the Swedish labour market in modern times. 480 000 people are enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. Since March, almost 100 000 people have been given notice, and 270 000 people have registered as job seekers at the Employment Service. We have a very serious situation in the Swedish labour market. At this point, the government has taken many very strong measures. I think it is important to highlight the things that have actually been done. This includes short-term work, which means that we save thousands of Swedish jobs. It is about the fact that we have contributed resources to the Public Employment Service, both to secure the local presence that needs to be built up and strengthened around the country and to ensure that all those who have now been given notice and who sign up will receive the right support. It is about that we have contributed SEK 100 million to the a-cassage. We have strengthened financial security, made sure that more people are covered by the unemployment insurance fund and made sure that you can also pay your rent when you have become unemployed. We have contributed SEK 1.8 billion for the Swedish Employment Service to be able to use resources and provide support to those who are unemployed, ranging from labour market training to other types of interventions. We have also contributed SEK 280 million to the municipalities for summer jobs for young people – I have visited a number of summer workers this summer – but also for young people's work this autumn. We need to see that this is the most serious crisis we have had in the Swedish labour market. The government is taking strong action, and we are prepared to do more. The pilot activity referred to by Ali Esbati in its interpellation is one way of developing services that help people into work or education. But it is only a small part of a whole palette of measures that people are offered. For me as Minister of Labour and Social Democrats, it is about the need to do everything in our power to provide the right support for people to get into work, and we need to use all the available resources. It is about creating the right conditions for Arbetsförmedlingen to be able to carry out its important task. But it's also about taking advantage of independent actors and non-profit and idea-driven actors. I was as late as the day before yesterday and met representatives of Fryshuset, who have long experience working with young people. We therefore need, instead of hacking different types of efforts, to help to see a whole and ensure that we create the best conditions for jobs and a good future in Sweden for everyone.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-483	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a full-bodied and committed answer. Many of the points raised by the Minister for Labour were not about the Employment Service itself. However, I would like to emphasise, as I did in my first speech, that many of the things that were mentioned here about economic policy and how it has focused on doing things to facilitate the situation of people who are at risk of becoming unemployed or who have become unemployed – the unemployment fund, the opportunities for vocational training that has been extended and short-term education – are things that we in the Left Party have supported and expressed very positive views on. What I asked about was how to do with the central authority that is going to do many of the things that I think we agree on should be done to make it easier for job seekers in a situation where we also have more unemployed people. The Minister himself mentioned that it is important to have a whole and not hack things up. That is exactly what is at the root of my concern and the criticism that we in the Left Party have had, not against the things that the Minister mentioned here and that have been done during the pandemic, but against what has been written in the January agreement and that we want to do with the Employment Service. That is where I would like to emphasise once again that KROM is part of this. We had to go quite far to make this not to become a full scale experiment but to limit it. But what still worries me, and which I think should worry the Minister, is that, unfortunately, the picture that you get from the reality of the Public Employment Service if you talk to people who work there and people who meet the services of the Public Employment Service is not at all as bright as the one that the Minister wants to give in his answers. Then it is precisely what it is that you have the opportunity to do with the resources that you have. I mentioned several examples of important parts of the service that must be offered to citizens who end up in unemployment and who cannot be given properly and who worry about those who are going to do the actual job, that is, those who are on the floor and try every day to do their best. In addition to this, for example, it is important to maintain personal relations with people in need of support in order to get closer to the labour market and, at the same time, to maintain relations with local employers. This is crucial in order to be able to do a good job, and I think the Minister actually agrees with that. The problem is that the insufficient resources available in administrative appropriations today and the idea of Arbetsförmedlingen, which has already been partially implemented – and which the Minister seems to want to continue to implement, with the support of the January agreement – cause Arbetsförmedlingen to be cut up. Then there is the idea that there are other types of skills that should exist than those of the labour mediators and that this should be spent on competing, private actors. That is what worries me, and unfortunately I am no less concerned about that after the Minister's otherwise excellent answers.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-487	Madam President, I would like There is a very strained situation at Arbetsförmedlingen, and I really have never said anything else. After all, the employment agency suffered severe cuts in connection with the M-KD budget decided in the Riksdag for last year. It was a very tough period last year, and it is continuing – of course, given the serious situation we have. As I said in my previous speech, 270 000 people have registered at the Employment Service as job seekers since March, and it is clear that this is an incredibly stressed situation. I very much admire all those employers who are doing an amazing job. They have also had to adjust themselves because of the pandemic, and many are now working from home. Thousands of workers work at a distance and do their utmost to provide the right support to those who have lost their jobs. Our responsibility is to ensure that the authority is given the right conditions to do its important job. I want to ensure, among other things, that there is a local presence so that people, regardless of where they live in our elongated country, can be entitled to support to get back to work – or study, given the economic situation we are in now. So I think it's important that we call a shoe a shoe. It is a tough situation, and we as the government will ensure that the Employment Service has the conditions it needs to be able to carry out its important work. At the same time, we need to develop labour market policies and reform the Employment Service. For me as a social democrat and Minister of Labour, that is a matter of course. Not only should we have an authority that has high capacity and can deliver good results, but we should also ensure that we can use all the good forces – that we have independent actors, non-profit organisations and others who can participate in a labour market policy that helps people to enter the labour market. Tomorrow I will meet ideas-based organisations to listen to their various suggestions on how they can contribute to this. For me, it becomes incomprehensible when the Left Party and Ali Esbati talk constantly and constantly only about Arbetsförmedlingen – the agency – and very rarely see the potential of other actors' ability to actually contribute. I think we are now in a position in Sweden where we really need to help each other. All the good forces need to gather together and make sure to support people in the tough situation we are in. I would also just like to mention what the KROM activity is about, Madam President. It is about providing support to those who are unemployed. So far it concerns a rather small group, because this is a newly started business. What we know is that there is scientific support that those who are supported in their job seeker will find a job more quickly. Participants in the KROM receive an individual action plan and physical meetings. The supplier and the participant together draw up a plan for the participant to get to training or work as quickly as possible. Among other things, it is a question of having the opportunity to identify your skills and conditions and to get information about the labour market and working life. Practical support is provided in looking for a job and in contact with employers. Guidance is given to education, and it can sometimes also be about motivating discussions and health promotion measures. I look forward to receiving the report that the agency will deliver to the government in October, because it is obviously an opportunity to continue discussing how we can develop this type of service so that we really support people in getting into education and work.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-495	Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the Left Party are very interested in the development and reform of labour market policy in general and the Public Employment Service in particular; we have for a long time made various proposals on how it can be done. What we and the government disagree on is the direction in which this development and reform should take place. I do not think that this is just about all the forces being involved and helping each other, so to speak, but is about setting up a rather complicated system of procurement and contracts so that commercial operators, who are to follow their financial incentives to make as much money as possible, provide support to the unemployed without deteriorating in the way it has done in labour market policy at previous stages, not very long ago. This is not something that goes into place by itself, but something that requires resources for implementation – and not least for control. In a variety of welfare services where pseudo-markets have been put in place, a lot of control has been required. There is a lot of resources spent on preventing companies that try to make money from delivering a substandard service in that process or parking people that they cannot support. That, then, is what is my concern and that of the Left Party. However, we will definitely have reason to come back to what labour market policy looks like and how best to use the Employment Service Agency, with all its employees, in the best way to push down unemployment and help people in need.
i-5086cdfd0fb48d2d-499	Madam President, I would like I fully share Ali Esbati's approach to ensuring that we have good control over those who perform different types of services in labour market policy. It is absolutely central to me, and I will of course continue to discuss it. Every tax chandelier should be used in the best way, but it is also the case that the agency should have the right conditions to do its important job. It is absolutely crucial to me. If there is someone who has looked at the debate we have just had, I would like to take this opportunity to say the following: It is a very tough situation in the Swedish labour market right now, but it is important to be clear that there are also great opportunities. I think that we as politicians have a great responsibility for that. The government has provided a lot of resources both for labour market policy and for us to expand the education system by several thousand places. If anyone is currently unemployed and looking at this debate, I would therefore urge that person to continue looking for a job, because there are jobs to be applied for. You shouldn't give up. But you should also take the opportunity to educate yourself. This is a time when I think that you should take the opportunity that exists to replenish with new knowledge and skills – and perhaps educate yourself to that profession you previously dreamed of. So don't give up! There are great opportunities. I thank Ali Esbati for the debate.
