i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1	Mr. Old President! The labour market is perhaps Sweden's largest policy area, and in eight minutes it is not possible to cover all parts. Later in the debate, my colleagues Saila Quicklund and AnnAnn-Sofie Lifvenhage will talk about everything from work environment to matching and unemployment insurance. Mr. Old President! The rising unemployment rate is Sweden's biggest economic and social problem. Above all, of course, it is for the individual who loses his job and has less opportunity for self-sufficiency. But this also applies to society as a whole. Unemployment not only makes it difficult for welfare gains when fewer people pay taxes and more tax money goes to benefits, but it also leads in the long run to poorer pensions. It makes integration impossible for people who are trapped in lifelong exclusion. This, in turn, leads to the hopelessness and frustration that, among other things, paves the way for the recruitment of criminal gangs. Repressing unemployment is crucial for Sweden's future. However, the Corona crisis is only a minor part of the explanation of Sweden's economic problems. The fact is that even before the crisis we had the lowest growth per person in the whole of Europe. Despite Stefan Lövven's promise that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate, we already had the EU's fifth highest before the crisis. Sweden was also the only country where unemployment increased between autumn 2014 and until the outbreak of the Corona crisis. Mr. Old President! When representatives of the parties to the January Agreement – those who have presented the budget that we are now discussing – try to make it as if Sweden is on the right track and that it is moving in the right direction, they always start from March 2020. However, it should be remembered that using March 2020 as a starting point, all curves will look good, regardless of the area. The problem with the budget from the January agreement parties that we are now discussing is that there is no common strategy on how to solve Sweden's problems. You don't have a whole, you don't have a red thread and you don't even have a common picture of the problems. Even less do you have the solutions. Only the widely differing wish lists of four parties have been compiled. With a budget of 105 billion, you can push everyone's wishes into it. However, despite 105 billion – the largest ever – there is, in principle, a complete lack of measures to increase jobs and employment. On the other hand, Mr President-in-Office, there are plenty of expensive reforms that reduce employment. That is the last thing Sweden needs. The Centre Party's representatives are talking with a loud voice about the reform of labour law, but we see that the Centre Party's promises in this regard run out into the sand, are being eroded and are now being investigated. Mr. Old President! Never before have the conditions for groups that are far from the labour market been as difficult even before a crisis struck. Despite a prolonged and prolonged boom, the government did not succeed in breaking the great alienation and dependency on grants that many people in Sweden have been in for a long time. The crisis has hit Sweden hard, and the high level of unemployment is at risk of getting stuck at high levels. We now have mass unemployment among many groups. That's what it looks like, Mr. Old President. Of the more than 100 000 people who have been given notice, a quarter have so far become unemployed, which is already a higher figure compared to the financial crisis, when one fifth of the respondents became unemployed. The difference in unemployment between immigrants and Swedish-born people has never been greater, and above all immigrant women are being knocked out of the labour market at a rapid pace. Youth unemployment is the highest in 100 years, and unemployment among immigrants in Sweden is among the highest in the EU. Mr. Old President! The Moderate plan to break unemployment is therefore on two legs. These are both economic measures to repress unemployment during the Corona crisis and structural reforms to solve Sweden's problems of exclusion and low growth. In order to relaunch the economy, reforms are needed for growth, especially in the labour market. These include lower thresholds, more access to the labour market, reform of labour law, increased mobility, better conditions for transition throughout the world of work, a reformed employment service and an unemployment fund that more clearly encourages job search, to name but a few. Mr. Old President! The Moderates also want to continue to lower taxes for those who work. We are doing this because it is right and because it provides more jobs and increases employment. We're doing it too because it's fair. There's a lot of pressure to pay off. We want to reduce taxes for everyone who works but with a focus on those with low and medium-sized incomes. We also reduce marginal tax rates for most people with ordinary occupations, such as nannys, nurses and bus drivers. So it becomes more profitable for them to work for an extra hour or to go up to full time. The strengthening of the employment tax credit thus gives us more hands and more money in welfare. Together with a benefit reform with, among other things, a premium ceiling, lower taxes on low and medium-sized incomes are crucial to breaking unemployment. We also want to demand that those who have immigrated to Sweden gradually qualify for Swedish benefit systems and start earning them. Mr. Old President! Let me conclude by stating that the Moderates are a party for those who work, for those who want to work and for those who have worked.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-16	Mr. Old President! Mats Green said a lot in his speech that I could comment on, but I am content to ask a little about one of the proposals that he did not talk about very much in substance. The Moderates want to reduce the benefit from unemployment insurance, which is already quite low. I would like Mats Green to explain a little how it will make it easier for those who have lost their job as a result of the pandemic if he or she is also going to have to drain his or her savings instead of getting the security that unemployment insurance that he or she has already paid into can provide. I also wonder how it helps to restart and improve the Swedish economy that with Moderate politics you get more poor. Mats Green also mentioned gang crime, which recurs as a mantra in the speeches of the Moderates, regardless of the question. It would be interesting to know how it helps to combat gang crime that more young people in vulnerable areas have parents living in poverty. How does this work in Mats Green's world of performances?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-21	Mr. Old President! We may have it, in the old-fashioned opinion of Ali Esbati, that poverty is best combated by more people having a job to go to. That is why we spend the vast majority of our budget efforts on more people being able to get a job with a salary that can be lived on and on tax cuts that give low and middle wage earners more in their wallets. Of course, the benefit from unemployment insurance should be fair and secure. However, any change in the unemployment fund that makes it more advantageous not to work always reduces employment. I dare say that there is clear research on it. When the government raised the compensation in the unemployment fund in 2016, it saw directly negative effects on employment. More people in jobs are fighting poverty, not unemployment. Having read the draft budget of the Left, can I say that there is not a single measure to get more people into work than the proposal for increased state subsidies to municipalities and regions – and with which parties here the Left Party has pushed through these increased state subsidies? Well, with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Again, poverty is best combated by more people having a job to go to.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-25	Mr. Old President! It is always gratifying when the Moderates and Christian Democrats join Left Party politics. Mats Green began by saying that he has old-fashioned views. We can agree on that. But otherwise, there wasn't much that was true of what he said. A country that has a functioning unemployment insurance does not show worse results in terms of unemployment and employment. This applies both to Sweden historically and in a comparison between countries. In the end, what remains of all Mats Green's words is the idea that if people become poorer, more people will get jobs. So it is Mats Green's understanding of the world and society. I regret that because it is wrong.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-29	Mr. Old President! I note again that the Left Party does not have a single proposal in its draft budget for more people to go to work. I was born and have lived half my life in Öxnehaga in Huskvarna, which is a so-called alienation area. What makes more people there go from exclusion to participation? Well, it's not a raised unemployment fund, it's that they have jobs to go to. Ali Esbati says that those countries with a well-functioning unemployment fund also have a more well-functioning labour market. Yeah, definitely, and that's a little my point. Sweden does not have a well-functioning unemployment fund. That is why we need to change it and make it more of a conversion insurance policy. Again, poverty is best combated by more people having a job to go to.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-33	Mr. Old President! We are here today to debate two reports, and I would like to begin by clarifying our requests. In the AU2, we are in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation, and in the AU5, we support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but we are only in favour of reservation 4. Mr. Old President! As far as the labour market situation is concerned, we note that the covid-19 pandemic has affected all parts of society, not least the labour market. Some sectors have been hit harder than others, and well over 100,000 people have been alerted to dismissal since the start of the pandemic. We note that certain necessary measures have been implemented through amending budgets but that further measures are needed to address the far-reaching problems for the economy in general and the labour market in particular. Unlike the government, with its efforts at ineffective measures and symbolism policies, we want to see investments in things that really stimulate purchasing power, job creation and growth. Mr. Old President! Sweden has major social problems that can be explained at least in part by large groups being outside the regular labour market linked to years of irresponsible immigration policy. In many cases it applies to people who actually have the potential to work. Here we can see that the government's policy has failed completely because the figures were alarming long before the pandemic started. The Swedish democrats' labour market policy is therefore based on pragmatic foundations and does not follow dogmas in the form of classic right and left-wing politics. We note that the Swedish model has proved successful in regulating the conditions between workers and larger companies. But we want to see greater flexibility and better conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises combined with a safe working environment. We believe that is where the jobs of the future will be created. However, much of the Swedish labour market and action policy must be rejected for two reasons. Firstly, it is spectacularly costly, and secondly, it is extremely inefficient. The inevitable conclusion is that labour market policy must be subject to reforms that involve less money for labour market measures and better conditions for smaller companies in particular. The incentives to create real jobs need to be increased. This means that the Swedish Democrats reject new start-up jobs, start-up jobs and some parts of the support for career introduction programmes. These are costly measures that year after year have shown terrible results and that after the end of the program have led to few regular jobs. We cannot stand here and debate these issues without mentioning the reform of the Employment Service. Before the pandemic hit Sweden, Arbetsförmedlingen was at the beginning of a reform process. For many years, we have been calling for a reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service in order to allow more players in the matching business. The private operators to take on the matching task must be continuously evaluated and monitored. Cheating and abuse must be combated, and access to support in all parts of the country must be ensured. Our vision for reforming the Public Employment Service remains firm, but reform must take place in a responsible manner. There is now a situation where Arbetsförmedlingen has to deal with an increased number of job seekers. According to the latest forecast, the number of job seekers will continue to rise until early 2021. It is important to take account of the fact that our country is in a state of crisis and to be open to the fact that it may be necessary to review the pace of reform. Mr. Old President! Our draft budget prioritises the importance of strengthening unemployment insurance for all. For several years we have highlighted the benefits of nationalised unemployment insurance. The pandemic has highlighted several shortcomings in the current system. The exceptional length of processing time has meant that a large number of jobseekers have been left without the compensation to which they are entitled. The safety net of welfare should ensure financial security in the event of unemployment, as it does in the event of illness. The right way forward is therefore a nationalised, compulsory and tax-funded unemployment insurance. Mr. Old President! In order to further strengthen the financial security of employees, we further believe that the compensation levels for the first hundred days of unemployment should be increased from SEK 910 to SEK 1,200 per day. Unlike the committee, we are not satisfied with the government's proposal for temporary increases in this area, but we want a permanent increase. Increased financial security allows people to focus on job seekers instead of worrying about the basics of everyday life. Mr. Old President! We see a need for a more ambitious labour market policy than the government offers. It is unfortunate that the committee does not see this need because fatalities are increasing in our workplaces today. We therefore believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's supervision work is absolutely central to the work environment, and we want to see an increased number of workplace inspections. We also want to see a higher level of funding for the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. Increased resources enable the Agency to take more investigative assignments with a focus on the pandemic's health and safety effects. And unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office, today we can see that the number of shootings in society and the number of fatalities in our workplaces is at exactly the same level, and that must be seen as a failure for the government. This is a subject that we will come back to in a report and debate after Christmas.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-48	Mr. Old President! Today we are discussing state expenditure on labour market policy. We naturally support the committee's proposal for a budget in which the Center Party has negotiated decisive and massive efforts to alleviate the Corona crisis and save thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of jobs. There have been lay-offs, turnover support and the possibility of reducing employers' contributions when the crisis is reversed. Mr. Old President! Let me start with a wider grip. It is such a dramatic time for the Swedish labour market. Of course, it's dramatically dark. Over the past year, we have seen all these tragic records for unemployment, for notice and for layoffs. We have seen hundreds of thousands of people go to unemployment once our society has been shut down. Even before the crisis, there was a serious situation in which the labour market was divided in depth. Today, they are becoming more vulnerable. Those who have been unemployed for a long time end up in the back of the line. The division of the tongue is further deepened. Digitisation and transition of the labour market have been involuntarily put on some kind of firm forward where jobs stop but are also created at an unprecedented rate. This is a time when Sweden's labour market really needs reforms, strengthening the chances of creating new jobs and finding new ways of finding employees for growing small businesses. It is therefore gratifying that there has been a drama on the positive side as well. Recently, on 4 December, the social partners agreed on a key historic agreement, a kind of Saltsjöbaden 2.0. For this agreement, which now comes in the time of the Count, we owe a great deal of thanks to those who choose to support, i.e. the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the official unions in PTK, IF Metall, Municipal and the majority of LO. They were able to conclude this historic new agreement, despite the fact that LO dropped off an agreement on which it shook hands. I am also proud that the Centre Party's long forty-year efforts to reform LAS, which for many decades neither bourgeois nor social-democratic governments were able to carry out, are now finally becoming a reality under the pressure of the January Agreement and the solid and professionally conducted state inquiry. For decades, the square rules in LAS – last in, first out – have put those who are weakest at the back of the queue and increased the division. Professor Lindbeck Lindbeck, the netor of Swedish economics, unfortunately recently deceased, made these questions the most important issue of his life. He said that for many decades Sweden had had insiders, who are on the inside of the labour market, and once they come out they become outsiders who are more and more vulnerable. Unfortunately, Lindbeck Assar must not see that these outsiders now have a greater chance of entering the labour market when the major and important reforms come into place. The rules become more flexible so that companies dare to take the risk, even in times like Corona, of hiring those they are more uncertain about without incurring bureaucratic costs. It will be cheaper for employers to do the right thing when they hire and more expensive when they do the wrong thing. We go back to a Swedish model, such as the one in Saltsjöbaden in 1938, where the parties themselves decide and we politicians do not put a wet blanket of regulations over and increase and make more complicated. Now that the parties have agreed, we can see how little substance scare propaganda has. As little as before, you can be fired in Sweden without objective reasons: not because you are pregnant, ill, pursuing your trade union mission or because of discrimination. Of course not! Protection against arbitrary dismissals remains. But anyone who harasses, grotesques or goes to work intoxicated and endangers his employees can no longer be protected by rules made for another time and which are sometimes, quite frankly, absurd. While we make the rules more flexible, the Saltsjöbad Agreement gives millions of Swedes the chance to further educate themselves, to try their wings and further develop their skills in life. A unique new study funding system is to be introduced, where anyone who has worked can study for up to one year with 80 percent replaced salary from the state and from the parties. Not only those in permanent employment, but also those with fixed periods of time get the chance to change just when we need this most. At this time of major transformation, Sweden is finally entering the 21st century into the labour market as well. We are also doing a lot more in the budget and the major reforms in the January agreement. It can be reminded. We have apprenticeship jobs called start-up jobs that the parties have agreed on, where you can get in on a little lower salary. We are introducing an intensive year for refugees, where passivity and waiting are replaced by fighting in the sweat of one's face to show what you can with intensive Swedish and intensive practice and then get a chance to really get into Swedish society. And, yes, we're reforming the Arbetsförmedlingen... albeit in a while, 2022. We do this because Sweden spends so much money, about 50 000 per unemployed person, on an employment agency that unfortunately gives so little. Despite many good intermediaries and despite many good local examples, it is generally only a small gutter that gets help. Therefore, we must learn from the best examples in the world. There you release the power of independent, non-profit and private intermediaries who get paid only for the lasting job results they really deliver – no parking in crafting. They are paid many times more to help those who have the heaviest and hardest way to work than those who have longer education, so that they give priority to those who are the toughest. You can scale up what works for the unemployed in the form of help and stop what takes both the time of the unemployed and the resources that could be used to help much better. At the same time, these intermediaries should be closely monitored and followed up. Here we have a long way to go, step by step, to make all this as accurate and as accurate as possible. We must also ensure that the Public Employment Service will continue to exist throughout the country. For many years, Arbetsförmedlingen has incomprehensiblely retreated from the countryside and centralised its activities without even saving money. Inhabitants of small rural municipalities have been allowed to travel hundreds of miles just to meet a case officer. Now we have finally started to turn this around. Offices have begun to open again and operations are re-starting, but that is certainly not enough. We notice on a daily basis that the Employment Service is not there in small rural municipalities. Therefore, in this budget, we will raise a quarter of a billion and in future regulatory letters we will tighten up the requirements further in order to stubbornly strengthen and secure the local presence until the Employment Service as a government agency is in place throughout the country and meets the unemployed in all municipalities. Already, the unemployed must face an effective, result-driven intermediary. At the beginning of the pandemic, in late April, Annika Qarlsson and I received an email from a man in Kungälv. He told us that he had been given notice in February in connection with the pandemic – a tragedy for him, of course. Only at the end of April did he receive a letter from Arbetsförmedlingen, where he was called to his first meeting with an administrator – hold on now! – at the beginning of December, in practice now that I am standing here in the speaker's chair. This isn't good enough. We cannot just keep letting the mills of bureaucracy grind in anticipation of reform. In the pandemic, we must have all hands on deck, and that is why we need as many results-based, efficient and driven intermediaries as we can get. Therefore, we are now ensuring that tens of thousands of unemployed people during the pandemic – more than ever before but still too few – face an effective, performance-based stand-alone intermediary who can really help them with training and jobs despite the fact that it is a very dark time in the labour market. In conclusion, I would just like to say that Sweden is a rich country with enormous conditions, even during the pandemic, but we have had a deep and serious division that created poverty, exclusion and segregation. With these reforms, not least with the hope of the new Saltsjöbad agreement, which is now lit for the whole labour market, we can finally start breaking the division – in the time of the Count, in the time of the pandemic – and start making the labour market whole again.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-70	Mr. Old President! The interesting thing about Martin Ådahl's speech was not what he said, but everything he didn't say. It was the half of the budget that he did not touch at all. This is exactly what I meant, Mr President-in-Office, when I said that we have a budget without any common thought. There is no common strategy, no common picture of the problems and, let alone, no common picture of the solutions. Two parties, whether the Centre Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats or the Green Party, will only want to talk about half the budget. We saw it now, and we will see it later when the representative of the Liberals rises, when the representative of the Social Democrats rises and when the representative of the Green Party rises. You will always distance yourself and not want to talk about the other half of the budget. I note that Martin Ådahl does not mention anything about the unemployment fund, if all the changes he has agreed to, as the Center Party said earlier, will hit jobs and jobs directly. Moreover, it was promised that no such changes would be accepted. If you want arguments against the changes that the Center Party is now voting for and has been involved in pushing through, you just need to go to the Center Party's draft budget for 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015. This is partly a question of that. It is also a question of extra services. It is an expensive measure – so taxpayers are subsidising not only 100% but just over 100% of that employment. We can also say that it is extremely inefficient and goes to the wrong people. This is only a small part of all the changes that the Center has promised not to make. I would therefore like to ask Martin Ådahl to mention something about the half of the budget which he did not touch on in his speech.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-77	Mr. Old President! In a way, it's easier to answer questions about things that you don't lift up, which you think for the best reasons. We've been in coalition and alliance for years. As Mr. Old President, Mats Green and others from the Alliance well know, you don't get everything all the time, you get to negotiate. What we have achieved with regard to extra services, to mention directly, is that they are restricted in a way that was certainly not done before – even during this crisis. Otherwise, we fully agree, and we have been quite clear about that. Nor do we believe that the extra services, which now play a minor role in crisis management, are effective or solve the problems. On the contrary, they have proved to be a less effective measure compared to new start jobs and other things. Absolutely, there's a lot we wouldn't have done. However, Mr. Old President, Mr. Mats Green and other ex-alignors still have to look at everything we have achieved in this pandemic. We have created a huge improvement in the response to the crisis that you have demanded, which we have demanded and which many others have demanded in the form of turnover aid, reduced employers' contributions and increased lay-off. In fact, it has made a huge difference, and that must be the central point of the pandemic. As far as the unemployment fund is concerned, it is a temporary solution during the crisis. It is not our favorite proposal, either, but note that it is temporary. Then I would just like to mention that in these negotiations we have received things that we unfortunately never achieved with you, even though we and you are behind them now, namely the very important reforms of labour law and the transition. The new Saltsjöbad agreement, which has now come after 40 years of LAS in various forms, has made changes that we unfortunately were unable to make together for eight years in the Alliance. I regret that, but it is, of course, a historic change which, unfortunately, we had received in no other way than with this giving and taking.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-83	Mr. Old President! This is very interesting, and it will be even more interesting when the Social Democrats and the Green Party later go up in this debate. Martin Ådahl states that you have made a contribution to the extra services, because you do not believe in the measure. Above all, the Centre Party has now contributed to its limitation because it is fundamentally a bad measure. It will be interesting to see what the Social Democrats and the Green Party think about it. As far as the unemployment fund is concerned, Martin Ådahl states that these are only temporary changes. It will be interesting to see if the Social Democrats and the Green Party will also say that these are temporary changes. I am quite sure that both will try to suggest that these are permanent changes. There is, once again, no common picture. There is no common picture of the problems and no common picture of the solutions. Half of the parties in the January agreement reject the other half of the budget. This is not how you govern a country, and that is not how you solve Sweden's major, fundamental social problems.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-86	Mr. Old President! With all due respect, Mats Green: You rule a country by implementing reforms that help our businesses, our jobs and our unemployed. In times of crisis, small differences are put aside, agreed on the big, important lines and meet all the millions of Swedes in the country who need help and support during a crisis. I can go on and argue about one or the other line of the budget and about what we would have liked, but I am clearly proud that we have got through these comprehensive and decisive crisis measures and at the same time – at this time of crisis, when people from various quarters have asked for this – have achieved major, fundamental reforms of labour law and the labour market that will help us get out of the crisis. That's what I'm focusing on.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-88	Mr. Old President! Martin Ådahl mentioned the so-called reform of Arbetsförmedlingen in his speech. Unfortunately, all he said in that respect was almost surreal. On the one hand, it was a description of the situation that must be said to be exactly the opposite of what is actually happening in reality; on the other hand, he came with severe criticism of some things that are the direct effects of Martin Ådahl's policy. I have to ask: What does Martin Ådahl say to Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, for example, SKR? They give an almost panic-stricken picture of the situation in the municipalities, where you have to take over a lot of tasks that should be the state without the state having thought through how this should actually be done because the reform that Martin Ådahl has pushed forward and is proud of is to be regarded as some kind of ongoing breakdown. I also wonder how it is possible to complain about the lack of local presence when this is the result of the reform that Martin Ådahl has pushed his chest for and which everyone pointed out would have just this effect. How can you come back and say that it is really bad and that it should not be so?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-91	Mr. Old President! Speaking of surrealism, it is a classic trick in politics to take something that has been going on under the representatives and accuse the followers of it and also criticise what they will do in the next step. Mr. Old President! Ali Esbati and most of those who follow this debate in the Chamber itself – and indeed some of those who follow it through the media – know that the reform of the Employment Service has not yet begun but will come later. So it's a little hard to load it for what's happening now. On the other hand, it is extremely important now to reverse the development that has been going on for many years. The Left Party did not raise this at all in this House, but we in the Center Party have done it time and again. I have done it myself, and my predecessor Annika Qarlsson has done it. I am talking about the retreat from the countryside and the administrative departure of small towns. Already before the pandemic, the municipalities, county councils and members of SKR were forced to spend 7 billion on their own efforts because the Swedish Public Employment Service was unable to do this. Ali Esbati's eternal answer is that somehow everything was best in the past. True, they retreated from the countryside, centralised their activities and bureaucracy and spent a lot of resources on the municipalities for these measures, but the answer to this is to do nothing at all. That's going back to how it was before; then everything worked well. No, it didn't! There is a reason why the municipalities have had to intervene there. I spoke only the night before yesterday to a councillor who told me that the Public Employment Service had not been in existence in that municipality for five, six, seven or eight years. We must reverse this, both through the functioning of the Employment Service – with the support of the independent intermediaries – and through the presence of an administrative presence on the ground. We cannot leave this, and neither do we. There is no doubt here where the Center Party has been for a long time or about what the Center Party has been pushing for. Then you can describe it a little as you like, but it is enough to check in the different rolls that are created in here.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-97	Mr. Old President! I am very pleased that the Left Party contributed to postponing parts of this reform because we are now seeing what it means. But it is a fact that there are a lot of processes that are started and that have had the effects that were to be expected. Possibly there was a confusion on the part of Martin Ådahl between me and Mats Green; I don't think everything was better before. On the other hand, I think it was reasonable to have a state-coherent labour market policy and take responsibility for the effects of it, rather than having a divisive effect on it without having anything to do with it. This is the situation in which we find ourselves in the real world, regardless of what Martin Ådahl says here. I hear that he is not prepared to take responsibility for the effects of his own policy, and I regret that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-99	Mr. Old President! We have been clear that the Center Party is always prepared to take responsibility for making it better for the unemployed, for jobs and for the ability of small businesses to employ. We're going to push this right into the tile... as far as we can... for it to get better. We have to keep track of things, Mr. Old President. The reform that Ali Esbati is attacking had come at the end of this year and at the beginning of next year. It has now been postponed for another year; I do not know whether this is necessarily a good thing given the response that the unemployed need right now. In any case, I can mention that, in the current situation, we are taking responsibility by getting as much effective communication through results-based intermediaries as possible. It is certainly not enough in the pandemic – the bureaucracy grinds too slowly. But if anything, we have strengthened and accelerated these processes. We are certainly not satisfied, but we must do more.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-102	Mr. Old President! I can handle formality first. In the budget report for Category 14, I draw the House's attention to the fact that the Left Party has a special opinion. As the framework of our overall draft budget did not win the approval of Parliament, we present our policy in this form in the reports for each area of expenditure. With regard to the report AU5 Labour Market Policy and unemployment insurance, I support all the reservations, but today I choose to ask for the approval of reservation 11 only. Mr. Old President! It is, of course, primarily economic policy that can help to strengthen the trend towards more and better jobs and thus greater prosperity and prosperity for those who live and work in our country. There is a striking difference in priorities between, on the one hand, the budget presented by the government and the support parties and, on the other hand, the Left Party's budget movement The way out of the crisis – a plan for equality and green transition. The budget proposal delivers tax reductions and subsidies aimed at those who are already committed. At the same time, the person who has had the bad luck of becoming ill and worn out is under pressure and suspicion. The wide-ranging welfare needs are left unanswered at the cost of weakened social and economic development and more fragile cohesion. And the significant public investment necessary for a green transition must be put on the foot in favour of low-taxed private capital income and state aid for porch construction and pool cleaning in multimillion villas. I must admit, it is distressing and tragic to see the signatures of leading Social Democrats under these priorities. The Left Party has chosen a different path. In our draft budget we spend the big money on welfare in order to create better quality, better working conditions and more colleagues for those who daily carry care, school and care. We spend about 70 billion more than the government on reforms aimed at building a robust, sustainable and fair society for all. And we do it with the same financial savings as the government in the last row. So we are financing our reforms with increased tax revenues that would be borne more fairly by high-income earners and by people with large wealth and capital income. Mr. Old President! Nevertheless, I would like to add, under the special circumstances, that the government has made a number of financial contributions and calls for action on the occasion of the pandemic which is laudable. The Left Party has supported most of them and has been the proposer of several of them. But in the ordinary budget we see that when the robustness of society is tested, the answer is unfortunately anything but satisfactory and far-sighted. As far as the labour market is concerned, we are undoubtedly in a trying time as a society. Unemployment has increased as a result of the pandemic. Particularly serious is the increase in long-term unemployment, which has causes that go further than the corona outbreak. But just when labour market policy would need to accumulate and function well, the January parties are in the process of ideologically unsound experimentation. Mr. Old President! Many may associate the Center Party with the extremely costly industrial policy failures of Postnord and Nuon – the fiasco that cost the public tens of billions – and that is understandable. Unfortunately, however, I believe that when we look back in a few years' time, the destruction of active labour market policy by the Center Party in general, and the State Employment Service in particular, will be able to be summed up into even greater losses for Swedish society. This is not a process that begins and ends with this year's budget. The Reinfeldt government has already converted large parts of Arbetsförmedlingen into a procurement body. This led to great and costly problems. But now that the need for a comprehensive state labour market policy with high-quality efforts is greater than it has been for a very long time, the January parties intend instead to shift the documented misconceptions on a full scale, despite warnings from virtually everyone with practical experience in labour market policy. Only a few weeks ago, the trade union ST, which organises many of those who actually do the job in labour market policy, presented a new report. It notes that the governance of the Employment Service has transferred resources from groups that need them most, the long-term unemployed, to those who are easy to find new jobs. It is therefore quite the opposite of effective priorities. Occupational groups with special skills to work with people who for various reasons are far from the labour market have had to get rid of or relocate to expand services to help people fill out forms and control them. It is nothing less than a destruction of capital. Now the municipalities are also panicked about the effects of this accident. There will be no employment agencies in more than 200 of Sweden's municipalities. SKR points out an increasingly urgent need for the state to assume its responsibilities and also recalls that labour market policy cannot be reduced to remote contacts. In addition to the costs of the job seekers who are under pressure, we thus get a passover of costs to the municipalities – costs that pressure things like school and care for the elderly. Something could have been done about this in the January parties' budget. But no, no calls from reality can interfere with this center party thought project that an S-led government is now undertaking. The reform of the Employment Service, as the dismantling is euphemistically called, will continue. Instead, the draft budget of the Left Party is based on real needs. We allocate 2 billion more to labour market policy interventions, and 1.5 billion more to the Public Employment Service's administrative appropriations – something that is necessary if you are actually to get the signs that the Minister for Labour talked about and if you are actually to be able to arrange the efforts that help people into working life. Mr. Old President! I will briefly address two more of the areas affected by the Left Party's draft budget. In our budget, we contribute more money to the Swedish Work Environment Agency and to the activities of regional safety representatives. These are important initiatives in a situation where we are still suffering during the severe cuts in inspection activities made under the Reinfeldt Government and see changes in the labour market that require more from both the Swedish Work Environment Authority's inspectors and regional safety representatives. Our efforts may be contrasted not only with the unwillingness to spend more budgetary resources, but also with the position of the cooperation parties to vote down, together with the right-wing opposition, a proposal to extend the possibilities for regional safety representatives to enter more precisely those workplaces where they are most needed. It is one of all the areas where the differences between the right and the left in politics are so acutely visible, i.e. how to value the people who do the work that is the source of all the wealth that in our society is so unequal and unjustly distributed. Finally, our proposals to combat cheating and exploitation linked to subsidised employment. Such employment can be very effective and lead to welfare gains for both the individual and the national economy as a whole. But we have seen for a long time that companies and businesses are making use of these subsidies. In some sectors it is a serious problem for the whole structure of the economy when it is put into systems by certain operators. The Left Party has therefore proposed, among other things, the following: an obligation should be imposed on employers who employ staff with subsidies to issue certificates of employment to employees when the employment ceases and a re-imposed requirement that non-wage employment benefits should also comply with or be equivalent to the relevant collective agreements in this area. We have also highlighted proposals to strengthen the role of trade unions in detecting and deterring the systematic exploitation of subsidised employment. These are demands which, of course, should be self-evident but which are therefore rejected by the committee. That is regrettable. Unfortunately, however, we will probably have reason to return to these problems in the coming years.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-122	Mr. Old President! We only have one speaker here from the Christian Democrats today, and there are very many areas in the report. I will try to keep the speaking time, but I dare not promise that it can be kept completely. Of course, we support all our reservations, but we are only in favour of reservation 12 in the AU report5. Mr. Old President! The Coronapandemia has left a deep mark on the labour market. Nearly half a million people are now unemployed. Life-dreams have failed, and salaries have been replaced by unemployment funds or grants. Action to get people back to work as a matter of urgency will be central in the future. In November, 682,000 persons were enrolled in the Employment Service. Over 60% of them have been unemployed for up to 12 months. A significant part of these are fixed-term employees who had to finish their job in, for example, the hotel and restaurant industry or as consultants in various industries. Short-term lay-off has been a good measure to hold back redundancies. However, we Christian Democrats have been critical of a provision requiring companies wishing to use short-term lay-off aid first to terminate staff who are not in permanent employment. In practice, the government's own legislation has forced entrepreneurs to lay off as much staff as they could to receive short-term leave support. That is also what has happened. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, it is mainly temporary employees and consultants who have become unemployed. Only in the second quarter, 97 000 fixed-term employees were dismissed. A large proportion of people in a particularly vulnerable position in the labour market have not qualified for unemployment insurance. They have supply support as the main source of income. Over the past few months, 57 per cent of the aid recipients of the support were able to work, and the number is increasing according to the National Board of Health and Welfare's statistics. This, Mr. Old President, is an alarming development. On the contrary, the provision aid to act as an ultimate safety net has become a kind of municipal unemployment fund for a group of people who need support, requirements, incentives and matching with the whole labour market – not just within the municipality's borders. Instead, we Christian Democrats are proposing that the group of unemployed who receive subsistence support should receive a state daily allowance. The daily allowance is linked to the individual and is a fixed sum that is not means-tested. It is clearly linked to the individual's need for training and measures to be matching through state labour market policies. This means that labour market responsibility and the cost of unemployment are interrelated. We therefore believe that the government urgently needs to investigate the introduction of a state daily allowance. Otherwise, we need a reformed employment service on the ground with actors who can specifically target this group, as we report in our motion. Unfortunately, the government has no reform proposals. No proposal comes to the Committee on Employment, despite the great challenge in the labour market. That's remarkable. Mr. Old President! Today 5.1 million people are employed in Sweden. Of these, 3.8 million are employees who are affiliated to some unemployment fund. Others are totally or partly unprotected in the event of unemployment. According to the Christian Democrats, it is crucial that the design of unemployment insurance protects the work line and shortens the time in unemployment. In order to do this, we believe that the unemployment fund should be made compulsory. Compensation levels should be made cyclically based and provide both security and driving forces for work. The qualifying period will be the time it takes to earn the lowest annual salary. With our income limit, this would allow some 4.4 million employees to qualify, which is 500 000 more than today. Pending the introduction of a compulsory unemployment fund, it is important to encourage more people to join an unemployment fund. We therefore propose to introduce a tax reduction for the a-cassage levy from the following year, and we allocate SEK 1.2 billion annually for this. The tax reduction amounts to 20% of the contribution to the unemployment fund and is regulated as a reduction in the tax on labour income. Mr. Old President! One group that has found it even more difficult to enter the labour market due to the pandemic is disabled people. Unfortunately, this is a group that is forgotten by the government. We Christian Democrats have highlighted in our budgetary motion the important role played by labour-integrated social enterprises, which receive the very people who are farthest from the labour market. Social enterprises should be supported and expanded. For this group to be able to work 100% of its capacity, permanent wage support is required for work integration social enterprises. The Christian Democrats therefore allocate SEK 300 million each year from 2021 to 2023 in order to give the group a chance on the labour market. Mr. Old President! I would like to say a few words about the LAS negotiations, which have been very much debated in the media. It is to be welcomed that the parties have taken action on this issue and that we have now been widely joined by both trade unions and employers. But we believe that a number of questions remain. Facilitating employment and increasing the flexibility for companies to adapt is central to this. We are in favour of increased exceptions in the order rules in LAS, which we have already been exercising here in Parliament for many years. It is necessary, and it should apply to all companies. To scrap a public solution and replace it with a party solution in the case of the unemployment fund raises some questions. It is important, in our view, that the checkout can cover all those who are in the labour market, and given its importance for the functioning of the labour market, there is an intrinsic value in its political decision-making. Increased opportunities for skills development are also welcome. However, since it is a rights law both under and between jobs, it needs to be clear that education is closely linked to the needs of the labour market. Otherwise, training can lead to lower productivity and incentives to be longer off-work. It is also unclear here what the costs will be for the state. In the media, temporary agencies and small businesses have expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that their industries are not involved and that their views have not been taken into account in the proposals, which we must also take into account. Before taking any further decisions, we now need to analyse the consequences of the proposal in general and what the costs to the state will be. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to mention something about health and safety at work which is also on our table. Especially in coronatides it has become even more serious. For a long time, the elderly's care staff had to work without protective equipment. Unfortunately, the government blames employers. However, individual small municipalities cannot go out and procure protective equipment in a global market in a situation like this. Here the government must assume its responsibilities and ensure that this never happens again. A large number of occupational injury reports have now been received by Försäkringskassan, and several incident reports have been received by the Swedish Work Environment Agency. So this is about life and death. It is easy to say that you have a zero vision of death at work, but here the government has failed in responsibility – as unfortunately in so many other areas.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-145	Mr. Old President! In fact, one should not ask for a reply when one essentially feels the same. But sometimes questions are asked, and sometimes questions arise. A question was asked about the close link with the labour market with regard to the new conversion systems and the study aid system, i.e. that it should be labour market relevant. On the side of the Center Party and the cooperation parties, we have said that we are going to implement this agreement, which has been supported by almost the whole of the Swedish labour market. Thank God, it is quite clear in the agreement that it should be linked to the labour market, so in this case it is something that the parties themselves have been thinking about. So there is an answer. I'd still like to ask you a question, Mr. Old President. Do I understand right that the Christian Democrats are in favour of the agreement now that such a huge breadth of the labour market has been achieved and there is such a great deal of commitment to implementing these important changes, where, of course, consideration for small and medium-sized enterprises is built into the process?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-149	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Martin Ådahl, for the question! For us, it is of course welcome that the parties have agreed on a proposal and that we can hopefully reform the LAS. Now this is not just a LAS issue, but there is so much more in this agreement. We have been talking about training issues for a long time, but we have never been able to cope with the problem of funding. Then I think we need to analyse what costs this means to the state. What does an unemployment fund mean that should instead be put on the trade union organisations? There are quite a lot of changes, so at this point we do not just want to say yes. We must, of course, see a proposal and see what concrete proposals are being put forward. We need to see what the costs are for the state and that there is a way of working that we believe will be effective. Of course we welcome this and hope that it will come to a conclusion. But I'm not sure it's as simple as Martin Ådahl sometimes wants to portray it as.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-153	Mr. Old President! I do not want to polemise, but I hardly think I have experienced or described this process as simple. In all respects it has been long and complicated, but thank God it has achieved something good and positive for all parties involved. I just want to mention that the parties to the agreement themselves have not asked for it to be a party-based unemployment insurance fund and unemployment insurance, but they want it investigated. They will also investigate it themselves, is the idea. That's what we're gonna have to follow. I hope and interpret it as – I think I hear it, although it is a little unclear – that the Christian Democrats support what large parts of Sweden have supported, namely the principle that reforms need to be implemented and the idea that this can be done with the parties, and that the Christian Democrats think that it is something genuinely positive that they support.
i-CiGHCLtLML1jjD2bFcLaxr	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Martin, for the questions! It is important that we can discuss the agreement that has come from the parties. Just as Martin Ådahl says, they want to investigate the unemployment fund, but there are also several different investigations that will now take place, as I see it. Nothing is clear until it is clear, and no one has really really been able to figure out what the different costs and effects are. As a serious party, we must, of course, look at the concrete proposals which are then put on the table of Parliament. We will have to deal with this issue, but we are obviously in favour of a reform of the LAS.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-158	Mr. Old President! This is my first debate in the role of new member of the Committee on Employment. These are super exciting questions in many ways, and very important. If I do a little look, I'm worried, to say the least. More than 430 000 Swedes are now outside the labour market. There are 430 000 people whose dreams, daily lives and, above all, hope for the future are rocking. Compared to the same period last year, there are more than 100 000 more unemployed. It's very troubling. We can see that some 173 000 people are long-term unemployed and have been enrolled as unemployed for 12 months or more. Although we are in the midst of a pandemic, these are alarming figures. The risk of more people becoming long-term unemployed is increasing every day, and every day these people are one step further away from dreams and everyday life and closer to greater exclusion. Let me go on. The number of unemployed young people aged 15 to 24 is approximately 117 000, which corresponds to a youth unemployment rate of nearly 21 per cent. More than one in five young people is therefore outside the labour market. I am concerned, Mr. Old President, that today's young people will be a lost generation. A job does not mean just what the pay envelope can offer each month on the 25th. Through work, we contribute to society, both directly and indirectly, and at the same time create increased self-esteem. Every person wants to be needed, wants to contribute. It's about going from an alienation to an alienation. It is about basic needs and something that we all want and that we all deserve. There are, of course, some key issues. We need to simplify the regulatory framework and it needs to be easier to hire. Outlawed laws must be removed, and labour law must be modernised. I am therefore proud as a liberal that we have pushed through this kind of reform within the framework of the January agreement. But is that enough? Absolutely not. Mr. Old President! It would not be serious to discuss these issues if we did not look at what the situation is right now in Sweden and the world. Covid-19 has crippled a whole world and so has Sweden. Basically, it is about health and medical care, but also the economy is under severe pressure. The fact that jobs have disappeared is not news. The number of notifications has risen markedly, and more have an uncertain future ahead of them. But let's be honest. It didn't look very good before the coronapndemine reached Sweden either. But the Liberals have taken a great deal of responsibility. Through budgetary cooperation, we have pushed for efforts to save jobs. Strong aid to companies, such as short-term jobs, conversion aid and turnover aid, has meant that more people can keep their jobs. Nevertheless, we can probably agree across party boundaries that far too many are still unemployed. As unemployment rises, in the wake of the ongoing pandemic, young and foreign born are the worst affected. The groups furthest from the labour market before the pandemic are now even further away, and there is a risk that the positive trend of an increased proportion of women at the disposal of the labour market will be broken. We need to learn lessons from the systemic errors that have been exposed during the crisis and see how we can make the labour market more inclusive for more, flexible and free from rigid structures. Of course, like the committee, we welcome the various efforts made to make it easier for more people to get to work, but in our opinion these measures will not be sufficient. Further work is needed in order to meet the long-term transition of the labour market. And the labour market needs a long-term perspective. Liberals have been pushing for the labour market over the past decade to be characterised more by flexicurity, where knowledge is valued higher than employment in a knowledge-intensive economy. Now, with the agreement of the parties, we see that we are taking major steps forward. However, policy action and long-termism are needed. While carrying out important reforms, we are raising our eyes to the future. Now we need to look at the challenges we are facing in ten years' time. Therefore, it is only reasonable for a long-term study to be commissioned to review what changes may be required in the Swedish labour market by 2030. A ten-year perspective is only reasonable. I therefore find it regrettable that more parties have not supported our reservation, but everyone is still welcome. Mr. Old President! Speaking of the transition that the labour market is facing: A few weeks ago, a historic decision was made by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK, IF Metall and Kommunal. We welcome the fact that these constructive partners finally managed to reach the goal of a settlement that will lead to a more flexible, dynamic and knowledge-oriented labour market. There have been major structural changes in the labour market over the last 25 years. At the same time, we have a law that is older than I am. Now politics, industry, many of the unions and not least the majority of Sweden's employees have realised that labour law must be modernised in order to overcome many of the challenges we face in the labour market. The parties have agreed, and it is now the responsibility and the task of the policy to implement the agreement. As a Liberal, I am very proud that we have made this historic change possible through the January agreement. The parties have been negotiating for years, but without the pressure that we initiated through the LAS investigation, it would have been possible to continue indefinitely. The Swedish labour market needs more flexible labour law, employees need better opportunities to change in the middle of working life and, not least, we need lower costs for companies, so that more can go from subsidies to jobs. With the modernisation of labour law, the winners are all employees, regardless of what they work with, and of course those who are outside the labour market. It is this type of change that the labour market so badly needs. Mr. Old President! Today we are also debating unemployment insurance. We know that insurance will change. In the government investigation that has been presented, I see many wise conclusions. With the investigation's proposal, there will be more transparency and less hassle both for the employee and for the companies, and it will be easier for entrepreneurs and combinators. This is, of course, good in many ways, but as a Liberal I would like to take it one step further. During the Corona crisis, it has become clear that the unemployment fund does not meet the needs that exist. Despite the changes that we have made in order for it to be possible for more people to qualify for unemployment benefit, about 2 million Swedes today stand outside unemployment insurance. It is a major weakness in the voluntary system. General security insurance works worse if people who do not need it are excluded. Even with the report's proposal for a new unemployment insurance scheme for more people, based on income, in which the Liberals pushed for more coverage of the report's proposal, the proportion qualifying for unemployment benefit is estimated to go from 40% to 47%. It doesn't make sense. Let me take two examples: young and healthy people have to pay for health insurance, and people who do not have children pay for parental insurance. It is only reasonable to have similar principles in relation to unemployment insurance as well. I, too, as an old entrepreneur, see a positive part in having compulsory unemployment insurance, namely that it would reduce the differences between being employed and being self-employed. We should also remember that taxpayers still pay the majority of insurance expenses, despite membership fees. Indirectly, then, insurance is financed by everyone who works, but only those who are members of an unemployment fund are entitled to the entire insurance. From a liberal point of view, Mr President-in-Office, it would be nothing more than reasonable to have a compulsory state budget. However, we are not yet there. A dynamic and knowledge-intensive labour market requires not only the changes brought about by the agreement of the parties, with more flexible conditions for employers and better opportunities for transition, but also the changes that Liberals want to see for everyone who works to benefit from financial security in the event of unemployment. In this way, we get companies that dare to hire and workers who dare to develop. Mr. Old President! This debate is very important. A good labour market is the way for people to go from contributions to jobs, from exclusion to inside. A good labour market creates the country of opportunity for all. With this, I would like to support the proposal contained in the AU2 report as a whole. As far as the AU5 report is concerned, of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save some time, I would only ask for reservation 2. With that, I wish the committee's office a Merry Christmas and thank you for all the help during this time. I also wish the members of the committee, and not least the House and the President of the Age, a Merry Christmas.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-183	Mr. Old President! A few months ago, the Labour Market Policy spokespersons of the Liberals said: It is the Green Party's recipe for reducing mass unemployment and kick-starting the economy after the crisis. Should the sossians also allow mp to dictate the conditions for fiscal policy? ..................................................... This is very interesting. My question is: is this statement still valid?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-185	Mr. Old President! In all honesty, I did not understand exactly what the question meant. I do not know whether the quotation is based on the coronapndemine or on the measures referred to by Mr Mats Green. I can only say that we have taken strong steps to ensure that more people go from subsidies to jobs. We will ensure that Swedish jobs and companies are saved during this period, and that requires some strong measures and packages. With regard to unemployment insurance, for example, which I did hear a hint about, it is a change that is not permanent. The anti-cassage investigation that exists has come up with proposals that we are going to look over, and then we are going to come up with a long-term approach to this issue. I think I'll stay there.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-188	Mr. Old President! My question was whether what the Liberal spokesperson said a few months ago still applies. I find it very difficult to reconcile it with the fact that the Liberals are now on a budget that spend more than twice as much on making it more profitable not to work than on ensuring that we get more jobs and more people who have money left in their wallets when the tax is paid. I also find it interesting that the Liberals are now saying that the increase in unemployment is only temporary. It will be interesting to hear what the Social Democrats and the Green Party then say. I have a question about the extra services. Like the Centre Party, do the Liberals think that it is a poor and ineffective measure that needs to be limited?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-191	Mr. Old President! I thank the honourable Member for the question. Mats Green also knows what it means to be part of a partnership, and let me be clear: there is a fruitful and a take in many things. Liberals have always had the perspective of saving Swedish jobs and Swedish companies, and we have done so during this pandemic. I think it is a great responsibility, and I know that the Moderates have been involved in taking a great deal of responsibility in these matters. We will continue to do so. There are parts where we do not fully agree between the parties to the January Agreement, and that will always be in cooperation. It's a giving and a taking. As far as extra services are concerned, it is probably also a reform, or whatever it is to be called, with which we see major challenges. Let's look at it and see how we can make improvements in the future.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-194	Mr. Old President! We are approaching Christmas, and it will be a Christmas that is different from anyone else we have experienced. For many, Christmas 2020 will be the first without a loved one, and for others it will be a Christmas when you worry about your own health or that of others. Hundreds of thousands of Swedes go out of the old year and into the new with a nagging concern about how it will be. Will I be allowed to keep my job? Will I get a new one? Will the company survive or fail? The pandemic and its consequences have hit our whole society hard but have hit some sectors in particular. Since last spring, the government has put no less than 12 additional amending budgets on Parliament's table to counteract and mitigate the effects on people and businesses around our country. These have been measures to save lives and reduce the spread of infection. These have been measures to save fundamentally viable companies and save jobs; for example, half a million wage earners have been able to be short-term laid off. It has also been about reducing people's vulnerability in an already difficult situation by, among other things, raising unemployment funds and removing the withdrawal date. As already mentioned, the pandemic also has a major impact on the labour market. The work environment has become the focus both for those who have to go to work and risk being exposed to infection and for those who work from home. Despite extensive efforts to save jobs, unemployment has increased dramatically. A-kassas and Arbetsförmedlingen are under heavy pressure when it comes to dealing with a huge influx of new cases – people who need help and support to manage their livelihoods and move on to a new job. We must continue to deal with the acute crisis with temporary, robust measures while ensuring a sustainable society and a well-functioning labour market. Everyone who can work should work. It is a promise we make to each other: each of us contributes according to our ability and can also count on the support of society when it is needed. But that's not enough. Everyone also has the right to a job that contributes with meaning and development, which gives a salary that you can live on and that does not make you sick or hurt by. The challenges are great. The people who already had a long way to work have got even further back in the queue when more, with better CVs, are looking for the same job. Many with temporary and insecure employment ended up alongside the efforts of the conversion organisations and the short-term layoffs when the crisis struck. Instead, they went out into open unemployment. Stress and pressure at work, which cause ill health and sick leave, have increased even more in many workplaces. The shift to digitalisation and automation that was already in full swing has accelerated, and many jobs that have disappeared are unlikely to come back after the pandemic. In an increasingly rapidly changing labour market, it will become increasingly important for education and labour market policies to go hand in hand. The provision of skills and the development of skills are crucial to meeting the needs of the future labour market. It is therefore very welcome that the Government has given the Employment Service more opportunities to assign job seekers to regular education and that opportunities to study under both unemployment and short-term lay-off have been strengthened. The budget includes further extensions in adult education, polytechnics and higher education, as well as increased resources for more people to take part in labour market training. In this way, we are using the crisis to improve people's and companies' future opportunities for growth and development. The employment agency has increased resources, both to deal with the situation here and now and to strengthen the local presence and be a resource throughout the country. AF must be able to meet job seekers and employers locally, understand the local labour market and act as a strategic partner in relation to municipalities and other actors. At the same time, the reform process is continuing and additional resources are also being provided for this. A particularly welcome mission is that the Swedish Public Employment Service, in collaboration with other actors, will launch the intensive year for new arrivals, which aims to shorten the path to work, self-sufficiency and integration. Various actions such as language training, career guidance and validation need to be linked together to a faster and clearer chain for those who are in a position to enter the labour market faster. Another group that needs special attention is the approximately 12% of the population who have different forms of disability, of which about two thirds are considered to have a reduced working capacity. These people have an unemployment rate which is significantly higher than for the rest of the population. More people in this group also work part-time and have more time-limited employment. There is an untapped potential here that we should seize, both for the sake of society and for the benefit of the individual. Labour market policy needs to have a stronger focus on involving these people in working life. The Employment Service shall ensure competence for the proper functioning of support for these persons. Subsidised employment and other support is an important piece of the puzzle in this work, as is Samhall, which will create jobs for those who, due to their disability, are outside the labour market. In the wake of the pandemic, this group is in danger of moving a further step away from work, and that is why it is to be welcomed by the increase in the allocation of 400 million to Samhall. Another welcome initiative in the budget is the 30 million that is being added to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to strengthen and develop cooperation between authorities against working life crime. It is an important work The Swedish Work Environment Agency, the police, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Migration Agency, the Swedish Equality Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Agency do to combat tax offences, work environment crimes, misuse of subsidies and exploitation of vulnerable people, not least labour immigrants and other migrants, and to ensure that competition takes place on equal terms. During last year, nearly 2 000 checks were carried out, which resulted in approximately one in ten controlled companies having to close down all or part of their activities and more than 10 million fines being imposed. In a labour market that is changing at a rapid pace, and especially in an economic downturn, economic security on the way between jobs is an important element. During the first years of the alliance government, dramatic changes and deteriorations were made to the unemployment fund. It became more expensive to participate, lower compensation, more difficult to qualify and almost impossible to predict your insurance cover. As a result, almost half a million people left the unemployment fund. Then we know how it went: the crisis struck. During the S-led government, several improvements have been made to the unemployment fund, and now during the pandemic the rules have been changed so that more people receive compensation and both floors and ceilings have been raised. It is very welcome that these changes are now being extended to safeguard people's income while maintaining the purchasing power of the economy. Finally, I have chosen to focus on our proposals in this speech, although there is, of course, much to say about the opposition's proposals. It is notable, however, that both the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats want to make substantial cuts in this area of expenditure, between 6 1⁄2 billion and about 10 billion, compared to the government and the cooperation parties, in a situation where the need for support for conversion is greater than perhaps ever before. It is also remarkable that both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats want to lower the levels of the unemployment fund in the midst of an ongoing pandemic. Those who would be affected are the unemployed, who have already taken a hard blow in Corona's tracks. The same Moderates who in April wanted to spend 100 billion on aid to crisis-sponsoring companies – this month – now want to cut nearly 10 billion on aid to crisis-stricken people. I note that many exciting things are happening in Swedish politics, but one thing is certain: When it comes to increasing insecurity for ordinary people, you can always trust the right hand. With that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision in the AU2 and AU5 reports. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President's Bureau, all the Members and the office staff a happy and healthy Christmas and a happy New Year.
i-2XAHNATPxQTWVJhKUDMXG2	Mr. Old President! Today's labour market policy programmes and subsidised employment are lacking in results in the form of regular employment. According to the statistics for 2019, 5 per cent went to regular work after participating in additional services. Seven per cent of the introductory unemployed went to regular work. Of those who received entry-level jobs, only 5% went to regular work. The list can be made long. Overall, it can be said that the government's efforts are very expensive and ineffective and have been so for years. My question to Anna Johansson is: Does the government intend to continue pursuing a labour market policy that costs billions of years in and out but only in exceptional cases leads to regular employment?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-213	Mr. Old President! Yes, the government intends to continue pursuing an active labour market policy, that is, a policy that provides people with the support they need to enter the labour market or from one job to another. The research available also shows that active measures that give people the opportunity to try to be in the labour market and to receive training during their unemployment also lead them to enter the labour market more easily and also to have more permanent contact with the labour market. The efforts made must, of course, be tailored to the individual needs. There is certainly much more to be done in designing measures that take better account of local labour market needs. There are plenty of very good examples. But overall, research shows that both subsidised employment and labour market training are effective measures to move people closer to the labour market. This does not always mean going directly from such an operation to a regular job. This may have to do with the fact that many people who are enrolled in the Public Employment Service – even those who were enrolled before the pandemic – have major problems that make them more difficult to enter the labour market. However, there is clear evidence that active measures move people closer to the labour market. Of course, many should also be motivated to move on to education. Often this is the difference between being outside the labour market and having a job.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-216	Mr. Old President! But the numbers don't lie here, Anna Johansson. They show extremely poor results. Arbetsförmedlingen delivers a very small proportion of regular jobs. Does Anna Johansson not think that you need to look over the system and find other ways to go? This has been tried for quite a few years with the same bad results at extremely high costs. Does the government have any new tools in their box?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-218	Mr. Old President! I think Magnus Persson knows very well that you try quite a lot of different tools. I mentioned in my speech, for example, the intensive year of new arrivals. There are also plenty of development projects around the country where very good results have been achieved, also with people who have been considered to be very far from the labour market. Research at work also shows that subsidised employment and labour market training are effective measures. I note that the Swedish Democrats, for their part, are cutting this area by 61⁄2 billion. I find it very difficult to see how it will move a single person one bit closer to the labour market. We have different views on what is needed to move people so that they get closer to the labour market, and I am very pleased that it is the Social Democratic-led Government's budget that will be approved by the Riksdag and not by the Swedish Democrats.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-221	Mr. Old President! Before we even heard the representatives of the parties to the January agreement, I said that they will want to talk about half of this budget, because the other half is not believed. That was definitely true when it came to Anna Johansson's speech. What's interesting isn't what she said. It's what she didn't say. I have a number of questions about this. My first question concerns Stefan Lövven's promise of 1 May 2015 that Sweden 2020 would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Instead, our unemployment is now one of the highest in the European Union, and it was even before the coronapandemy started. I would like to hear a comment on that. The irony is that on the same occasion, 1 May 2015, Stefan Löfven called reduced social security contributions for young people for billions of dollars. In view of the fact that the Social Democrats are now, among other things, agreeing to propose a reduction in employers' contributions for young people for a certain period of time, I wonder whether Anna Johansson still believes it is billions of dollars. My second question concerns the upsurges which the Centre Party and the Liberals promised would be temporary. Is it the opinion of Anna Johansson and the Social Democrats that they are only temporary? I suspect that we will have a moving, general and non-specific answer. I also note that Anna Johansson did not say anything about labour law. It would be interesting to hear some comments even about it.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-227	Mr. Old President! We have two minutes of speaking time in lines, so it is a bit difficult to go to Mats Green on all points. I will start with unemployment. Yes, we have had and have continued to have major problems with high unemployment. But what is extremely positive is that we have had and continue to have the absolute highest employment rate in the European Union. This means that more people of the total labour force in Sweden go to work and support themselves. We have a lower proportion of poor people in Sweden, and we have a fundamentally robust labour market. I think it is worth pointing out. We have had an influx of people who are far from the labour market, which has led to an increase in unemployment. In the boom, more people have also considered it worthwhile to look for a job, which has also contributed to higher levels of unemployment. The important figure is actually about how many people are employed in the economy, and Sweden is doing well there. Now we are entering a crisis, but so are many others, which is why we urgently need to re-launch the economy so that more people get to work as quickly as possible. The reduction of employers' contributions for young people is a temporary measure. We might not have proposed it ourselves if we had ruled on our own, but we still believe that in a very special situation like this it is a less harmful measure than in the years when the alliance government carried it out on a broad front. The increase in the unemployment fund is a temporary measure. We Socialists would like it to be permanent, but what is in the draft budget for next year is a temporary increase in the unemployment fund. How it is then depends in part on what the Swedish people choose to put their votes on in the 2022 elections. I would like to put a counter-question to Mats Green. How do Mats Green and the Moderates think that a reduced unemployment fund will contribute to a better labour market?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-234	Mr. Old President! You can always rely on the Moderates to ensure that low- and middle-income earners get more money into their wallets when the tax is paid. You can also always rely on the Moderates to ensure that more people have a job to go to. Here the Social Democrats have failed miserably, despite extremely good conditions with a long and prolonged boom. We see the result. Long-term unemployment had been stuck long before Corona arrived. We now have the highest unemployment rate in 100 years. Again, speaking of Anna Johansson's question, we see that a more favourable unemployment fund hits unemployment directly with more people leaving the labour market and becoming dependent on benefits. How can we defend the failure of the Social Democracy in terms of unemployment? You've broken just about every promise you've ever made.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-237	Mr. Old President! As far as low- and middle-income earners are concerned, I can see that Mats Green and the Moderates are happy to strengthen people's economies with tax cuts, but not for those who are the toughest – not for those who are on sick leave, not for those who are unemployed and not for those who are in the most difficult private economic situation. There the Moderates always want to hit hard and ruthlessly. I am convinced that someone who has lost his job in the wake of the pandemic will not receive a single additional job offer because they will also receive lower compensation during their unemployment. Unemployment insurance is a bridge over to the next job and will ensure people a reasonable level of security. It wants the Moderates to pull away, and I actually think it's shameful.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-239	Mr. Old President! I would like to comment on some of what Anna Johansson has mentioned here. She has accused the Christian Democrats of being almost heartless when it comes to unemployment. I think we can really consider that if the unemployment fund is now to be a conversion insurance, it should be precisely a conversion insurance policy. There are several studies that show that the increased level can lower unemployment and hamper Swedish economic development. It is in turn bad for the unemployed that the economy does not get started. Then you have to look at what options we have. We have spent more than the government on measures to this end. We have spent 771 million extra on new start-up jobs, start-up jobs and support for professional and introductory positions and other things. I would particularly like to highlight a group, which I also mentioned in my speech earlier. The Government is targeting 400 million to Samhall for people with disabilities. Samhall seems to be the only answer for the Social Democrats. We have spent 300 million on investment in labour-integrated social enterprises. Unfortunately, the government has for a long time ensured that they have increasingly disappeared. They are the ones who can usually bring in people and give them a context, a meaningful everyday life and an opportunity to perhaps come out on the road to their own work with pay, which is exactly what Anna Johansson wants. What is it that means that you do not want to invest in the work-integrated social enterprises, but only see Samhall as the only solution today?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-245	Mr. Old President! Of course, this is not the only solution, but it is an important solution. Samhall needs to be able to accommodate people in many different types of jobs and to ensure that services are developed that are in demand and can thus also offer meaningful employment and work for people who find it difficult to get hold of the regular labour market. This does not mean that other interventions or other types of employers are uninteresting or pointless, but there are still funds for, for example, salary subsidies and other types of interventions where the Employment Service has several tools in its toolbox to provide support for people with disabilities. Nevertheless, I would argue that this is an area in which no government, whether current or past, has reason to beat itself to the chest. I am convinced that this is an area in which we will need to make more efforts and find more tools in the future. It is also likely that a change of outlook is needed to a great extent. About a quarter of all disabled people have experienced discrimination. The most common form of discrimination is that one experiences violations and questioning from one's own employer. There is no doubt reason to consider how the labour market can generally develop better in order to make room for people who have a working capacity and who can contribute but who today do not have the opportunity to do so. I hope that we can continue to have a good dialogue on this. I believe that there is a need for cooperation rather than contradictions.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-250	Mr. Old President! You have to let words and deeds go hand in hand. For example, the Christian Democrats raised salaries before the government. Then the government itself has increased the wage subsidy part so that more can be covered and so that employers get better compensation for those who may have a long-term disability and find it difficult to get into working life. The issue of discrimination is also important. However, when the committee has had talks with the Employment Service on two occasions, their only answer has been that it is not possible to get people with disabilities out during the pandemic. There are huge numbers of people who do not have a disability who are getting a job today. That's what the Arbetsförmedlingen says. So it must be possible. I would therefore like to get the Social Democrats to deal with this issue and ensure that these people are not only told from the pulpit that they are important, but that concrete measures are also taken for the group. In this respect, I believe that the role of labour-integrated social enterprises is very important.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-253	Mr. Old President! I think that's where Désirée Pethrus and I have the same vision. Work integration enterprises but also other types of employment and support are important. A palette of measures is needed. But it is also a question of making room in ordinary workplaces and creating a better understanding that people with disabilities also have a lot to add to working life and is not just a problem, as many employers today think. I maintain that I believe that there is a great deal of consensus on these issues. We can certainly agree on more and even better measures for this group. It is an important but neglected group that needs additional measures to come to its own.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-255	Mr. Old President! Anna Johansson said some very wise things about how active labour market policy and state employment services should work. That makes me happy. At the same time, unfortunately, it is quite little in government policy that points in that direction. It makes me sad. As regards, for example, local presence, which was mentioned, the Employment Service has now finalised its assessment of what the office network should look like. Even after the actions imposed by the Riksdag, even through threats of censure, it turns out that in more than 200 municipalities there will be no employment intermediary in place. It is both an effect of the funds that the Public Employment Service has received and of the governance that is taking place due to the so-called reform. You just remove employment agencies and turn their services into what can be likened to telephoneists at call centers. It is a preparation for the privatisation and commercialisation that this government has set itself ahead of carrying out. I want to hear how Anna Johansson views this development and the fact that it goes in a different direction from what she herself said would be wise to do with Arbetsförmedlingen.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-258	Mr. Old President! I can begin by saying that the office closures were a direct consequence of the M-KD budget that was voted through and which led to very dramatic cuts in the Employment Service. It was also very late in the year. This meant having to make hasty and perhaps not always thought - out changes. It is in this way that Arbetsförmedlingen is responsible for and has full authority over its own organisation. It is also worth recalling that Arbetsförmedlingen has never ever had offices in every municipality in Sweden and probably never will be able to have them either. Moreover, it may not be the most appropriate way of carrying out that activity. However, it is a fact that several offices have reopened, and more are in the pipeline. The important thing for us is that there is an active employment service in all parts of the country. If you are a job seeker and need a new job, you should be able to get in touch with Arbetsförmedlingen and get the support you need. Employers seeking skills should also be given the help they need to find the right skills. The Public Employment Service should also be the state party to state labour market policy, as a representative of the state in various strategic respects. This can apply to projects and collaboration with municipalities. It can be through public education and other actors. And it's supposed to work all over the country. This does not mean, however, that there will be employment offices in all municipalities in the country. But there needs to be an improvement. This is why the Government is also providing a quarter of a billion dollars for the Swedish Public Employment Service to increase its local presence.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-262	Mr. Old President! I and Anna Johansson agree that dramatic and negative effects followed by the M-KD budget, which was voted through with the help of the Swedish Democrats. On the other hand, the government and the existing cooperation parties were able to correct it but have failed to do so. That should be taken on its own responsibility. I'm not looking for there to necessarily be employment services buildings in a huge number of places. But what not only I but also the municipalities themselves point out is that the withdrawal of the State Employment Service leads to increased costs for municipalities. The very kind of collaboration that Anna Johansson was very wise about is also needed becomes considerably more difficult to implement. I hope that this will be followed up more closely than has been shown here.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-265	Mr. Old President! As I said, it adds a quarter of a billion to the Employment Service for next year, precisely to secure and increase the local presence in the country. The government has also made it clear that you are not satisfied with the state of things and that it is something that you will continue to follow up and follow very closely. It should also be said that many people will come into contact with state labour market policies in part by meeting independent actors or by participating in, for example, training in the place where they live. But that's not enough. Employment services must also be represented in all parts of the country by a government authority. It must be able to be a strong and good party to ensure that people get into work, approach the labour market and interact with relevant actors. We will continue to follow that up.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-267	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating Category 14 which concerns the labour market and working life. Initially, it has to be noted that the coronapndemin has shaken the labour market considerably. The pandemic has hit the whole world hard — life and health. Restrictions introduced to stem the spread of infection have had serious consequences for the economy. The pandemic has affected us all in different ways. As far as the labour market is concerned, we have been affected differently. We can clearly see that the pandemic affects some groups harder than others. Those who have professions where there is no possibility of working at home, such as welfare professions, have been more exposed to infectious diseases than others. Many in precarious employment in, for example, the tourism industry became in a kind of work or have hourly contracts that have been reduced to a minimum. Individuals have lost all or part of their income and livelihood. Unemployment has risen considerably. The government has introduced a range of measures to mitigate the impact on the economy of individuals and to help companies survive. These are, in themselves, important measures and very large sums of money have been set aside. Aid granted includes short-term lay-offs and conversion aid to enterprises. But we have also made it easier to qualify for unemployment insurance and increased both the ceiling and the basic amount. The fact that more people are now covered by unemployment insurance and improved basic protection is important. The Green Party wants these changes to be permanent. They are fully in line with what we have been pushing for a long time: that more should be covered by the security systems. Arbetsförmedlingen is in a phase of change in accordance with the agreement in January. At the same time, it is a tough challenge for the Authority to meet a very large number of unemployed people at such a transition stage and to provide them with sufficient support. Arbetsförmedlingen is given the opportunity to deal with the situation by increasing the administrative grant for the agency. An intensive year is introduced within the framework of the establishment programme to speed up the establishment of new arrivals in the Swedish labour market. Mr. Old President! Unemployment increased slightly just before the pandemic due to cyclical changes. However, during the pandemic, unemployment has run out, and those who have been most affected are people who are weakly rooted in the labour market. Even before the pandemic, the Swedish labour market had problems with many job vacancies and many unemployed people who could not take these jobs. Even now there are jobs in some industries; some have even gained a boost. However, it is not certain that the unemployed are equipped to take these vacancies. There is a skills gap that needs to be bridged through training. The government is making several investments in education. This considers the Green Party to be very important. Both employers and employees benefit from access to supplementary training courses so that they can work in a profession to which they have previously been trained or of which they have experience. There should also be good opportunities to study a whole new basic education and then continue to improve their opportunities in the labour market. Being able to get a job quickly, even if it is unskilled and the salary is low, can be good if it is a part-time job alongside further studies. I worry about the voices that show that a job at all times is better than studying. It increases the risk of people getting into a situation that they find difficult to get out of. With education we strengthen the individual's opportunities in the labour market. The pace of change in the labour market is high. Many jobs are being rationalised away due to automation and digitalisation. At the same time, the development also provides new jobs. Education is therefore important not only for those who do not have a job but also for those who are already established in the labour market. Skills provision will play a major role in the future labour market. The Green Party has long emphasised the importance of lifelong learning. We are convinced that people benefit from developing during their professional lives and that it strengthens their position in the labour market. We welcome the agreement in principle between the parties, which includes a comprehensive package of skills provision. This means, in principle, that employees must be entitled to two semesters of paid competence development. We believe that this will be very important. It will significantly lower the thresholds for people to dare and be able to further educate themselves. Too many unemployed people lack the skills needed to enter the labour market. The Government's ambition is for more jobseekers with educational needs to choose regular studies or studies within the folk high school. The Government also proposes that funds be provided to increase access to short labour market training courses aimed at meeting the needs of shortage professions. Madam President, I would like The lowest anchoring of the labour market is foreign-born women with a low level of education. The review presented by the Cold Facts at the beginning of the year showed that women with foreign background are disadvantaged in the labour market policy assessment on the basis of discrimination. They were not allowed to participate in operations to the same extent as men and had more difficulty in getting in touch with administrators. Prejudice and perceptions shall not determine which actions individuals may take part in. It is important that the start-up efforts have a gender perspective and that the labour market policy assessment is carried out in a knowledge-based manner. The Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out the importance of the Swedish Public Employment Service ensuring that labour market policy assessments are equivalent. During the last term of office, the government removed the custody allowance, and we have ensured that parents' leave now has the opportunity to study Swedish. This is important for many who have not yet established themselves in the labour market. The government has invested in efforts that can strengthen the employment opportunities of low-skilled women. Extra services and introductory jobs give those furthest from the labour market a chance to enter, not least women born abroad. This is very important and makes a difference in practice. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposals in the reports AU2 and AU5.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-287	Madam President, I would like We have debated ineffective labour market measures in the past. However, one measure we did not mention is the new allocation for the intensive year for new arrivals – a reform for 100 million which has for some reason been inserted into the administrative costs of the Public Employment Service without mentioning this in a single word in the budget bill. My question to the Green Party is quite simple: does the Green Party think that separate solutions based on ethnicity are the right way forward, with the great unemployment we have today?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-289	Madam President, I would like I would like to address a question to Magnus Persson himself: What do you mean by separate solutions? I have read your committee motion, in which you say that the government bases its policy on ethnicity. What ethnicity do you point to? Can you answer that question?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-290	Madam President, I would like I hear the Green Party representative does not want to answer the question. But yes, we are against special solutions and quotas. I think that this kind of reform sends out very strange signals to all the thousands of unemployed young people we have in Sweden today, who do not get a sour cream into the labour market. Does the Green Party representative in this House think that this is the right way to go?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-291	Madam President, I would like The intensive year is part of the establishment programme. It is an individualised establishment. Today we have an establishment programme of two years, in which a university-trained person and an illiterate person receive basically the same efforts. You want to abolish the whole integration policy. What are your solutions to the problems you give a very misleading picture of?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-293	Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, my colleague Mats Green spoke about the labour market. I will focus on the work environment and Moderate positions here. Work environment issues have in recent years been heavily debated, including in the light of the large number of fatal accidents at Swedish workplaces that we have seen for several years. Most accidents are found in the construction, transport, agriculture and forestry sectors. On average, about one person a week died in a workplace accident. However, the situation has temporarily improved slightly. Pandemic effects and accompanying lay-offs and short-term lay-offs may be a cause of slightly improved statistics in this area. Of course, every work-related fatal accident is always an accident too much. I have been contacted by families and parents who have tragically lost their sons through workplace accidents. The aim of the talks has been that relatives wanted to describe the events and to make the important call that we must work from the policy to ensure that fatal accidents and accidents generally cannot happen. The cases I come to are both about young men in their 20s – one from Strömstad, the other from Östersund – who have been killed in their respective workplaces. It is every person's worst nightmare to lose someone you love, and I think no one can really imagine what these parents and relatives are going through now. I'm so sorry for their loss. My thoughts continue to the relatives of the victims. Nobody's gonna die at work. Everyone who goes to work should also come home to their loved ones. Anything else is unacceptable. The high number of workplace accidents must be reduced. Here employers, the parties, the authorities and, not least, politics have a really big responsibility. Collaboration is important and necessary. Supervision, information, acquisition of knowledge and education must be improved, and cooperation between authorities, which today does not work, must be much better. These are some of the necessary measures, according to us Moderates. A coherent chain of efforts is needed. We Moderates therefore have sharp proposals that can affect the working environment of many workers in a better direction. In terms of collaboration and a chain of efforts, I also refer to the historic efforts of the Moderates on, among other things, the Police Authority, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Courts and the Prison Service. Work environment issues extend across several authorities, and efforts must therefore be made widely in the sphere of government. The whole thing makes a difference. The background is also that criticism has emerged that police and prosecutors have too little resources for investigations of occupational health and safety offences and that the limitation periods are too short. For the normal rate, the limitation period is two years, for serious occupational health and safety offences five years. Initiated criminal cases are closed and important experiences of preventive measures are lost due to the short limitation periods. The Moderates therefore want to double the limitation periods. The Coronapandemia has resulted in a further increased focus on the working environment in health care and care for the elderly in particular. The working environment conditions for these particular professions and in these areas have been very strained even before the pandemic, and now they are completely unacceptable. Urgent efforts are needed to improve the health and safety situation of employees. Already before the pandemic, one in three women had been ill because of the job in the last 12 months. Every third woman – note that! Worst was it for women between the ages of 30 and 49. An excessive workload is the most common reason for getting health problems at work," the Swedish Work Environment Authority's report showed. Two thirds of all people with work-related problems suffer from physical pain and pain. Problems with neck, shoulder and arm are also very common. Of course, these pains also affect sleep and stress levels negatively. In elderly care, the Swedish Work Environment Authority found that 90 per cent of the workplaces visited had complaints about the work environment. This shows how unacceptable and substandard the working environment is for women in the health and social care sector, a sector which, moreover, is currently facing major recruitment problems. If we are to succeed in attracting people to train and seek work in the care of the elderly and in health care – add to this the educational side – the working environment conditions must be improved. I would like to highlight more examples of occupational health and safety challenges. 20% of Swedish workers are estimated to be exposed to some form of discrimination every year. 7 percent were also subjected to bullying at the workplace. Much of the work environment policy has had a clear focus on fatal accidents, which is entirely justified, but we also need to pay attention to the psychosocial working environments and their impact on workers. We Moderates have paid attention to this part. That is why we also have proposals for improvements. I would also like to highlight new and other incidents in the wake of the pandemic. The police authorities have received more than 1 000 reports of incidents and occupational injuries linked to the spread of infection. There are threats to police in the event of intervention, and it is a matter of the arresters stating that they are infected. This is, of course, also an important occupational safety and health issue for police workers. I will now briefly present the Moderates' proposals in the area of health and safety at work. We believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should increase the number of inspections and supervisions in general and especially in vulnerable sectors. The Swedish Work Environment Authority will also carry out annual follow-ups of systematic work environment work with regard to both psychosocial and physical work environment; the health and social care sector will be highlighted in special order. We want to strengthen the supervision of employers for occupational groups with particularly high sick leave. We want to strengthen the training efforts related to the work environment. We want to strengthen preventive work against mental illness within the framework of occupational health care. As I mentioned earlier, we also want to extend the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences. I look forward to seeing what the government is presenting in the new strategy on health and safety at work. We have still not been given anything to find out what is to come. But this is a very important question. Work environment issues are constantly relevant and should be so. At the moment, our workers around the country are experiencing enormous challenges and difficulties in their workplaces, and we in politics bear a great responsibility for facilitating and improving this difficult situation. Obviously, the efforts put in place have not been sufficient. In this context, efforts must be made in collaboration with the parties concerned. However, the ultimate responsibility of politics and, of course, of the government is central. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-312	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, we only ask for reservation 17 in the AU5. Madam President, I would like For me, Sweden will be a country where we can start with nothing and take us as far as possible, where everyone has to take their responsibility and do their best based on their conditions, where society is when the unforeseen or the accident is there but where we all other times take our own responsibility, make our own decisions and all the time help to build ourselves and Sweden strong, where the school is for everyone, where your work efforts give you opportunities and where you choose your way for you, many times over during life. We are living at a time of great changes in the labour market, even without the pandemic and all the consequences it has brought. Unfortunately, even before the crisis we were ill prepared to face rising unemployment as we had the highest ever in a boom. It was the EU's fifth highest overall and third highest in the EU for extra-Europeans; only Spain and Greece are worse off. For people with low levels of education, we see that a large proportion has the highest primary school, but an alarmingly high proportion does not even have that. We need a substantial boost when we come to adult education at all levels. Education and good language skills are A and O in order to be attractive in the Swedish labour market. This is a challenge we must tackle vigorously, as otherwise the consequence risks being permanent exclusion. Madam President, I would like What we are now seeing is a changing labour market with a need for a longer working life. There we use solid knowledge and experience from those who wish to continue working for a few more years. It is a question of changing valuation to highly esteem this competence, rather than to sort people out at a fixed age. My former boss and principal Sten-Åke-Åke Domeij had certainly not intended to quit the day the birth certificate said that the retirement age was reached. No, I don't think anyone of us who had him in charge would have thought that that energy thing would do that. But in a system that is more for the system than for flexible and thinking people there is nothing but to quit and start your own business in order to be able to continue using their skills. But we also see a society where skills development and career changes are more the rule than the exception. This means that we must be prepared to learn and learn new things throughout our working lives. It's a way to keep interest and go up for some, but also a challenge for others. In order for more people to be able to change and constantly work to make themselves employable, the system needs to be changed so that, for example, you can get tax deductions for your own training costs and that society stimulates re-training. Overall, this increases the importance of flexible adult learning that places new demands on the transition. The state therefore needs to make it easier for both employers and individuals to invest in education through their part and responsibility in the social contract. The Swedish labour market is plagued by lack of mobility and outdated regulations. People have increasingly different job opportunities, and businesses find it difficult to get people with the right skills for different jobs Madam President, I would like The aim should be to create unemployment insurance that provides temporary financial security, dedratises short-term unemployment and enables effective job search. We must realise that the 21st century labour market cannot be controlled by regulations from the 1970s. Today's employment protection makes it harder for people who do not like or fit their workplace to move forward. In order to improve mobility and matching in the labour market, strengthen Swedish competitiveness and give more opportunities to have a job, the rotation rules should be reformed to a greater extent based on who has the best competence to carry out the task. Other parts of the Employment Protection Act should also be reviewed. For example, probationary contracts should be extended from six to twelve months in order to make more people dare to try hiring another employee, which can lower the threshold for jobs for both young and newcomers. For this to be possible, labour market matching needs to work. Today, the Swedish labour market is characterised by major matching problems. While more people than ever need help to enter the labour market, recruitment problems are considerable. Employers do not find the right skills. A well-functioning match, and the ability to give the unemployed the right input, will play a central role in how we can deal with that challenge in the future. The inefficiencies and low trust of employment services are not the whole cause of the matching problem, but it becomes clear that reform is needed. We want to see a structure in which more actors take overall responsibility for their job seekers and receive compensation according to how well they succeed in helping the job seeker into work. Quality must be the focus. Madam President, I would like We need an unemployment insurance policy that is clear, where in the beginning the individual has a great deal of freedom to seek ways to the next job and where the drive to be active in it itself is rewarded. Work and economy should always pay off. An insurance policy should be a short-term help when you are between jobs and not a lasting livelihood. The Moderates want to create the conditions for a modern labour market where people can change their careers, build on their skills to keep a job or make a career. With stronger economic encouragement and greater freedom, Sweden could have a labour market model that creates both growth and real security: it has several employers to choose from. It becomes clear that we need unemployment insurance worthy of the name. With the starting position Sweden is in now, we rather need a conversion insurance to meet the future labour market, a labour market where more people dare to change and more people come to their own. Madam President, fellow Members! It has been a tumultuous year for all of us to varying degrees. It has been a year where we have learned a lot but also a year where we have had to accept a lot that I wish we had not done. In this year's last debate for our committee, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would also like to thank the Office very much for the work you have done and thank you to your colleagues for their good cooperation. With shown consideration and concern for each other, with the hope of a vaccination plan that works and with a conversation to someone sitting alone, we can make a difference. If we don't have the courage to trust Santa – who has most likely been quarantined this year – I wish we could help shop locally. If we want shops, services, jobs and businesses to remain tomorrow, we must help each other today. No one can do anything, but everyone can do something.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-333	Madam President, I would like I would not have liked to extend the debate further. But it is a bit difficult when there are different speakers in these coronatides, and we get to compress our contributions. I have entered the debate in order to support a reservation under paragraph 5 which is being discussed in the AU5. I would also like to take this opportunity to say, as it has been mentioned in the debate, that the intensive year has nothing to do with ethnic discrimination, as Mrs Leila Ali-Elmi has said. It is a measure to speed up and streamline the establishment so that those who come here do not meet with passivity but with a compact and demanding program where people are integrated in the fastest possible and powerful way in Sweden. It is mentioned both in the budget and in very much of our communication in connection with the budget. The most important thing I would like to add when I am here is that, like everyone else, I would like to wish a really happy Christmas to the Committee on Employment, everyone in this House, Madam President, and also to the fantastic office that has helped us in this dramatic and difficult year. I hope and look forward to 2021 getting better for all of us together!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-336	Madam President, I would like Then we finally come to student support! It is an area where most of us probably agree that it is a fantastic and unique study aid system that exists in Sweden. But perhaps we do not fully agree on the arrangement and on the financing, and therefore the Moderates refrain from taking a position on decisions on the state budget in Category 15. Instead, we set out our considerations in a separate opinion. We had a debate on student aid quite exactly a year ago. Then I told him I had a 30-year-old relationship with CSN. I have now interrupted it, and I am very pleased with that. At last you're done with this- pooh! It was a victory, I can tell you. But of course it was also a possibility that it existed. There are almost 1 million people in Sweden who use student support at both post-secondary and upper secondary level. It's a great opportunity. You could say it's an opportunity for a lot of people. It is an opportunity to study and finance their dream education. It is an opportunity to study abroad. It is an opportunity to study even when you have given birth and started a family, if you are a little older. It is also an opportunity for a new chance to study a new education in order to keep a job, perhaps increase their skills or get a job. It is therefore a very important and fine opportunity. Madam President, I would like The world economy and the Swedish economy are changing rapidly. The labour market is also changing. We have heard that discussed for a couple of hours here in the morning. We have a longer working life, and there is a greater need for skills development. We will also change careers during life; it will become the rule rather than the exception that it happens when you work. This means, of course, that knowledge and skills are becoming increasingly important for security in the labour market. Knowledge and competence will always be needed. Therefore, we from the Moderates want to facilitate the possibility of receiving study funding for a longer period of time and even higher up the age. Madam President, I would like There is no mention of anything without telling us about the influence of the coronapandemine on our country. Along with the recession that is also under way, it has meant that thousands of people have been out of work. A lot of people have started studying instead. You need to change and you need to supplement in order to be able to return to the labour market. Even students who are being examined now get a completely different labour market when they come out. Madam President, I would like A completely new era in the new social contract will be that both companies and public employees will have to ensure that, during their working lives, they will be able to supplement and change their education. This must be made possible in many different forms. You may also be able to work in parallel with your studies. We are very much in favour of the fact that many health students, for example, have now worked extra in healthcare during the pandemic. Then you have been able to get help to remove the free amount during the year to be able to study and at the same time make money. After all, the amount of the benefit is the limit that exists for how much you can earn without affecting the student benefit. This assistance has been available now in 2020. We had hoped that it would also exist in 2021, because unfortunately the pandemic has not disappeared – although we are very happy about the vaccine that has arrived. Unfortunately, the government is saying no to this. We see it as an important gesture that it should remain – a gesture that you make a big contribution when you are inside and work even during your studies when we are in such a special situation. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have more suggestions for the necessary measures. There is a great lack of educated preschool teachers. A lot of preschool teachers are needed. We now want to introduce a new supplementary educational education, called the KPU, so that academics and professionals can return to a professional life and work as supervisors instead. We also discussed this yesterday when we talked about higher education. We Moderates want to set aside 25 million for this effort. There will be training of a large number of police officers, which has also been much discussed. It is not enough just to increase the number of places, whether in the field of police training or other training. It is also a matter of having a livelihood, and then the means of study becomes very important. We want to make it more attractive to work as a police officer in Sweden, and we have an opportunity to get rid of our studies when you have worked for five years as a police officer. It is therefore an education that is paid by the state, and it may make it more attractive to train and also more pleasant to work as a police officer. We want to invest SEK 50 million for this. There are more flaws. There is a shortage of housing for students. These are high costs for newly produced units. We want students to be given the opportunity to take a so-called ggsl å n. This makes it easier for students to have an accommodation. We know that it makes it easier for students when you can feel safe having a place to live. You don't have to move during your studies, and you don't have to have secondary or third-hand contracts. We would like to invest 300 million extra in this in order to be able to have a safer living environment for the students as well. Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, we do not really agree on how to fund and set up the study funding. Therefore, the Moderates will refrain from taking a position on the decision. I have now presented some of what is included in our opinion. I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, although it will be very different for everyone.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-351	Madam President, I would like In Sweden there are about 10,000 preschools, and just over half a million children attend these. The share of employees with a pre-primary qualification is approximately 40 per cent. Another 20% are licensed child care workers. Most units meet the requirement for at least one educated preschool teacher throughout preschool, but some municipalities have as low a level as 6 per cent educated children's nurses and 13 per cent certified preschool teachers. 263 of the country's preschools even lack full staff with some form of identification. These are numbers from the National Board of Education. The proportion of pre-school teachers differs between different types of principals and municipalities. A report from SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, mentions that the distance to higher education institutions with pre-school education affects the ability to recruit staff because preschool teachers stay very close to the higher education institution or university where they have trained. There is a high shortage of trained staff in rural and sparsely populated areas, as well as in areas furthest geographically from the places where these training courses are carried out. Although much can be done digitally and remotely – we've learned that in the past year – the statistics speak clearly: This is a growing problem. I recently participated in a pre-school webinars organised by several members of the Education Committee, where these facts and statistics were discussed and highlighted. This development applies not only to qualified teachers in preschool, but also to primary school. Sweden should be a country where people can live and work and have children in preschool and school even outside the larger places. The lack of qualified preschool teachers and primary school teachers in rural and rural areas needs to be addressed. 194 of Sweden's 290 municipalities fall within these criteria, and about 25 per cent of Sweden's population lives in these areas. Potentially, then, one in four children may attend preschool or primary school in the very areas where there is a serious shortage of qualified and trained staff. Furthermore, it should also be mentioned that 14% of Sweden's graduates choose to take employment outside the education industry or as teachers and simply choose to work with something else. In order to start a job where we try to remedy the teacher shortage in preschool and school, the Swedish Democrats therefore propose that graduates who take up employment in rural areas annually should receive a deduction of 15 per cent on their student debt, which would mean that the entire student debt is paid off after about seven years. Both the Municipal Investigation and the Rural Committee highlight the write-down of study debts as an appropriate measure to try to improve the supply of skills in some parts of the country. This investment amounts to approximately SEK 90 million for 2021, and a fully implemented proposal would entail a cost of approximately SEK 600 million per year. It is an initiative that would benefit an estimated 400 000 children and pupils in preschool and primary school only in rural areas. If we add teachers in occupations and high school teachers, who are included in this effort, the number increases even more, and we are approaching half a million students – to quote the Teachers' Association: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like In order to provide incentives for students to train in professions where there is a shortage of trained staff in the labour market, the Swedish Democrats propose targeted support in the form of an increased study grant of SEK 1 000 extra per month during the study months. This applies to those students who graduate in a shortage area, which refers to one of the ten programmes where there is a greatest shortage of skilled labour in the labour market. According to Arbetsförmedlingen's forecasts, these professions include occupational therapists, midwives, civil engineers, recreational educators, health professionals and doctors, IT staff, police, psychologists, dentists, dental hygienists and dental technicians, and preschool teachers and teachers. The proportion of empty places on spring courses in these examples varies between 76 and 86 percent. In the worst cases, then, we are only training 14% of actual needs. A higher study grant of SEK 1 000 per month would probably attract more students to these programmes, which is also confirmed by the parliamentary investigation service. We therefore invest in our budget 580 million for 2021 for this purpose. Sweden is a fantastic country with a well-developed study support system that soon goes into its 102nd year since Hjalmar Oscar-Ahlberg-Ahlberg in 1919 received the first Swedish student loan – 1 500 SEK for a full year to be paid back within ten years. Since 1919 Sweden has developed, and 1965 laid the foundations for the system we have today, which is a well-developed study support system. It is one of the world's most generous to enable studies for people from all walks of life, regardless of the individual's unique conditions. We should be very proud of this while there are always elements that can be improved and further developed. Having said that, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation and conclude my speech by wishing our Presidents, officials, members of the Committee on Education, Ministers of State and other Members of Parliament a really good Christmas and a happy new year.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-367	Madam President, I would like What Michael Rubbestad did not mention in his speech concerns the start-up aid. I note that Michael Rubbestad wants to remove the carpet for thousands of unemployed people, the majority of women, who have a short education and are the furthest away from the labour market by abolishing the start-up aid. This support is given for a maximum of 50 weeks. It is for these people so that they dare to start studying. In most cases, vocational training leads to jobs. As a reason, the Swedish Democrats state that the start-up aid is intended only for new arrivals. That is not true, Madam President. According to CSN's Legal Department, most students with foreign citizenship have a permanent residence permit. But what all students with start-up support have in common, regardless of their nationality, is that they have been unemployed for at least six months over a twelve-month period and that they have a short education that needs to be strengthened in order for them to have a more decent life. The Swedish Democrats obviously want, for ideological reasons, Madam President, to deprive thousands of individuals of the possibility of a job, to become self-sufficient, to contribute to Swedish society, to a future and to freedom. Why, Michael Rubbestad?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-370	Madam President, I would like I don't know what's most remarkable here. I have just made a speech about the efforts of the Swedish Democrats that could benefit 500 000 children and students. However, Mr Nilsson would rather talk about the policy of the Social Democrats. I had hoped to talk about what the Swedish democrats want in this area. Pia Nilsson talks about thousands of people. According to CSN, there were approximately 6,300 people who were eligible for study start-up support in 2019. CSN also notes that approximately half of these people were likely to have started to study anyway. Then we're down to about 3,000 people. There aren't many left. Of these, about 8 percent drop during the year of study. In addition, only one third of students continue to study after the year has passed. It doesn't sound like there's a lot left. It was said that the Swedish Democrats want to pull the carpet away. It is more a matter of putting a number of proposals against each other. Politics are priorities. How are we gonna use the money? If I can choose to use this pot with money for about 500 000 children and students and potentially benefit 25 per cent of Sweden's population in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas versus about 3 000 people, the choice is quite easy.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-373	Madam President, I would like The policy of the Swedish democrats in this area is about abolishing the start-up aid, but Michael Rubbestad chose not to refer it from the speaker's chair. That is the case, however. It's perfectly clear. That the dropout rate would be 8% is not true at all. There were 289 people out of 6,300 who dropped out. It won't be 8%. Michael Rubbestad also said that one third continued to study. Yes, but quite a few more people get a job in areas such as health care, children and leisure, professional traffic, restaurant and commerce. This forgets Michael Rubbestad and the Swedish Democrats. These millions are well-invested money. This is about people who would not have taken this step without the start-up aid. Michael Rubbestad will be responsible for the answer. What do the Swedish Democrats intend to do about these thousands of people? Whether it is 3 000, 6 000 or 10 000 it is not the Swedish Democrats. They say no.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-377	Madam President, I would like It may well be that Pia Nilsson is right. I do not think the honourable Member is lying about the figures, but 8% is in the evidence I have received from CSN. I find it a little hard to see that they would be wrong. It is correctly understood that the start-up aid is something that we want to abolish. This is not the policy of the Swedish Democrats; it is the policy of the Social Democrats. The Swedish Democrats believe in a policy that benefits all citizens. We shall not confine ourselves to this extremely small group. The people who are actually involved here are very few. If we want to make efforts like these, we should reasonably want to make efforts that benefit everyone, the entire Swedish population, so that you do not have to belong to certain groups in order to have the opportunity to take part in something. Next time Pia Nilsson is asked if she thinks that the start-up grant was really a good investment, I suggest that she quotes her Prime Minister and party leader and answers: We have been naive.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-380	Madam President, I would like Inequality and widening economic gaps are a major social problem. The Left Party's budget exercise presents extensive spending on welfare. Through these proposals, equality is increased while welfare is strengthened and Sweden is built stronger. Part of our plan for greater equality and to strengthen income for low-income earners is to introduce holiday allowances for students. We want education and knowledge to be accessible to more people. A study support system is needed to make it possible for students to manage financially. The Left Party has made proposals on several occasions to ensure this very thing. Since the reminder fees for late payment of invoices to CSN were raised from SEK 200 to SEK 450 during the time of the Alliance at the government, we proposed an increased budget to CSN in order for them to be able to reduce the fee again – this as a measure for students not to get into debt problems. As the student organisations have pointed out, students go back every month if they have basic expenses. That is why, during the negotiations with the Social Democrats and the Green Party during the last parliamentary term, we managed to achieve an increase of SEK 300 per month in the grant component of the study aid. In the same negotiations, we also managed to get a historical increase in the study allowance for upper secondary school students, and this year we proposed an increase of 700 SEK per month in the months of distance and long-distance teaching. It was something that unfortunately did not get a hearing from the other parties in the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like We believe that more efforts are needed. During the summer months, it is often particularly difficult for students to make ends meet. We therefore propose to introduce a holiday supplement in the spring semester study funding. The proposal means that for each ten weeks of student funding applied for and granted in the spring term, one week's student grant will be paid out in June. The Left Party allocates SEK 610 million for this purpose in its budget. In order for the student benefit system to be fair and thereby be able to counter social misrecruitment in a better way, it needs to be fundamentally changed. The left-wing party's vision is to introduce salary and equal study to work. An investment in study wages for students must in the long term be considered both economically and socially beneficial for both students and society. This would mean greater opportunities for students to get a good education and increase their ability to participate actively in society. It is in the interests of society and democracy that people are well educated. Students would also have access to social security systems with a salary, and many of the social and economic problems currently faced by students would be solved. The issue is complex. A complement to student support is the so-called Dala model. We have proposed that in some deficiency professions you should be able to study and work at the same time and thus also get a salary. Madam President, I would like Especially in a situation like this with a pandemic, it is important that we have a study support system that is strengthened – not weakened, as the Swedish Democrats, among other things, suggest. That is why I would have liked the Parliament to have supported our proposals, but since the financial perspectives have already been decided, we will refrain from taking part in the decision. However, we have a specific opinion explaining our positions.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-391	Madam President, I would like Student support is an important part of an effective education policy. The support should provide financial conditions for people who want to start studying regardless of their background. Student funds for full-time studies with full student loans amount to just over SEK 10 900 per month for 2021. Of this, the grant part is more than SEK 3,300. In 2018, the Government increased the grant part by SEK 300 per month. We Christian Democrats voted against this increase. However, since we were anxious to maintain the overall level of student support, we proposed that the loan part be increased by SEK 300 instead. We stand by this position. Madam President, I would like There is a value in giving people the opportunity to increase their income during their studies, not least because the rent often consumes a large proportion of the student allowance. Similarly, there is a value in the early establishment of students in the labour market. We Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of students working during their studies as long as they do not suffer. As a Christian Democrat, however, I have full confidence that the individual himself has the ability to balance studies and work based on his own capacity and life situation. After all, students at universities and colleges are adults. There are also requirements for study results in order to maintain your student support. Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a pandemic that is testing our society to the limit. One issue that has become important in this context is the so-called free amount, i.e. the maximum amount that students are allowed to earn in order to retain their student support at the same time. In addition to limiting the student's own decision on how much time and capacity he or she has to work alongside his or her studies as a matter of principle, the amount of benefit now also limits the possibility of enhanced staffing in health and social care. When the outbreak of the new Corona virus put the care under great strain during the spring, the Christian Democrats were pushing for the abolition of the release for 2020. It was urgent that those students who wanted and could have the opportunity to work in health care without the risk of negative effects on the right to study funds. It was welcome that the government carried out the proposal. For the regular health care staff, these work efforts from the students provided valuable relief in certain tasks during the major transition necessary to cope with the care. Unfortunately, the situation is still critical. The Corona crisis continues with renewed momentum, and it is still too early to say when the pandemic is over. The pressure on care is accelerating again as the spread of infection increases. We hear daily warning signals that the top of the current second wave is not yet reached. The pressure on the staff is inhumane. Many have not had enough recovery after the stress of spring, and many do not get time off during the coming Christmas and New Year holidays. Many are worn out both physically and mentally. It is no wonder that there are reports that more and more people are no longer able to cope and feel compelled to leave their job to save their own health. The situation is alarming and serious, to say the least. Madam President, I would like There are many of us who look forward with hope and confidence to the fact that several vaccines will soon be approved. At the same time, however, we must be realistic and realise that the vaccine will not solve the crisis in healthcare by magic. No, even if the vaccination plan runs smoothly, the care will be under great pressure for a long time to come. The care queues were far too long before the pandemic, and now a large health debt has been built up as much of the non-emergency care has had to be postponed. In October, 115 647 patients had been waiting illegally, i.e. longer than the 90 days of the health guarantee, on a first specialist visit or on an operation. Behind each number is a person who may be suffering and in pain and who rightly fears that his already bad knee or aching hip is at risk of getting even worse while waiting for care. When the pandemic eventually settles, these patients must receive immediate treatment. The situation in healthcare will therefore be strained for a long time to come. Madam President, I would like I can only imagine the pressure and stress experienced by those working in health care every day. We must therefore all do our utmost to make things easier. We need to keep our distance and stay home at the slightest sign. However, the government must also take responsibility and take all measures that can in any way contribute to more people being able to help and relieve the burdened health workers in practical terms. Students must be able to help without being punished. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that the amount of the release must be abolished for 2021 as well. A counter-argument that the responsible minister often uses is that the level of the free amount allows a assistant nurse to work half-time and still retain the student allowance. It is good that the amount of the release has been increased so much. But we also know that there may be problems when, for example, the entire salary from the summer job is paid after the half-year because the maximum income allowed is calculated on a forward-looking basis. There is now an imminent risk that the same problems will affect those students who have the capacity and want to work intensively to remedy the crisis during Christmas holidays and during the first months of 2021. Madam President, I would like This report concerns an area of expenditure, and we therefore have no reservation. However, the proposal to abolish the amount of the allowance is included in our specific opinion, which I naturally support in its entirety. However, I regret that a few weeks ago the January parties voted against the committee initiative taken jointly by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates on this issue. I very much hope that the government will change its mind and take its own initiative to abolish the release. We cannot risk a single student feeling compelled to turn down extra hours when the entire care is in the midst of a burning crisis of a kind that we have never experienced before in modern times.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-412	Madam President, I would like What Pia Steensland does not mention is that the Christian Democrats are now joining forces with the Swedish Democrats and want to abolish the recruiting start-up aid for the unemployed with a short education. The Christian Democrats believe that the support is too great, and they are therefore convinced that the support is being misused, even though CSN declares that this is not the case. Double standards are evident when the same party in the next breath supports the goals of student support being recruiting and helping to equalise differences in economic conditions among individuals and between groups. Pia Steensland himself said in her speech that regardless of the background, you should be entitled to support. Can Pia Steensland explain to me, to the President and to all who listen why the Christian Democrats want to deprive thousands of individuals of the opportunity for a job, to become self-sufficient, to contribute to Swedish society, to a future and to freedom?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-415	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for your commitment to this issue! I appreciate it. It's great when people are passionate about what we work for in Parliament. The Christian Democrats say no to the support for reasons of fairness. We believe that the study support available today in Sweden is generous. The group that the honourable Member is talking about should be given the confidence to take part in the student aid and study anyway, that is to say, take part of the funds available. The reason why I did not focus so much on the support in my speech today is the great, burning crisis of the current pandemic. The Government has shown some positive points in considering that the release amount will be abolished for 2021 as well. We have also heard that CSN believes that it is possible to limit the amount of the exemption to certain groups so that it is not abolished for all students. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to ask the honourable Member how the government will proceed on this. I think many students are now in the starting pits and want to step in. I heard on the news today that overtime among health workers is alarming. It's never been so high. People are getting hurt, and people in need of care are getting hurt. Will the government abolish the release even for the coming years?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-419	Madam President, I would like In response to Pia Steensland's question, I can refer to what the Minister for Higher Education replied to Pia Steensland yesterday, namely that the Government analyses what has been done so far and is carefully considering measures. You really have the question under the lid, so something may well happen. But at present there is no such decision. Let us return to the start-up aid, to which the Christian Democrats actually say no because they believe it should be misused. Do the Christian Democrats really believe that students will abuse the support? In last year's debate Pia Steensland's colleague Gudrun Brunegård said that study motivation should not come from a monetary reward but from an academic ambition. Is that Pia Steensland's elite opinion? Rather, this is proof of the elite attitude of the Christian Democrats about who should have access to knowledge and education.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-422	Madam President, I would like I myself come from working class. I have studied at university, I have a PhD and I am a associate professor. Of course, everyone should have the opportunity to study further. I also think it is important to stress that you do not necessarily have to go to universities and colleges. There are so many valuable professions that contribute so nicely to our welfare. Those who want and have ambitions should be given the opportunity to study further, but there are so many professions in the world that contribute to our society. Everyone has a seat.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-424	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to Pia Steensland concerning the draft budget of the Christian Democrats in the field of study aid. The Christian Democrats' draft budget proposes, among other things, that the increase in the contribution part of the study material that we, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, introduced during the last parliamentary term should be abolished. 88 000 students with debts were sent to the bailiff last year. It was due to unpaid CSN loans. This makes it difficult to rent a home, and in many cases it makes it difficult to even get a mobile subscription. It simply makes life more difficult for many thousands of students. This is a class question. Although Pia Steensland comes from the working class, she does not represent the working class today in view of the proposal put forward by the Christian Democrats. If all people, regardless of the social class, are to receive education in an equal and equal way across the country, there must also be a well-functioning system where it is not debt that is the purpose but rather to provide good conditions for studying. Why do the Christian Democrats want to take that opportunity away from so many people? Why do you want many more thousands to go to the bailiff because of debt from high loans?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-429	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Riazat for the questions. We are discussing urgent issues today, and I am pleased that we have the opportunity to do so. We convert these 300 kroner into loans instead. However, student loans are favourable loans compared to many other loans. As I have said before, we believe it is important that students can increase their income in other ways during their studies by, for example, working extra alongside. There is one thing we want to encourage. The state budget takes a holistic approach. The savings we make on this part are spent on other welfare efforts that benefit many people. I know that the Left Party has a strong commitment to LSS and assistance. That's where we put the money. Unfortunately, the Left Party is not putting any money there yet, but I hope they will. We're running and passionate about the same issues. There must be support schemes to support and help those who end up in debt and so on. However, in the field of student aid, we believe that it is a favourable loan in order to move on to better conditions in life. In our budget, we give great priority to spending money on other welfare efforts.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-434	Madam President, I would like Times like this with a pandemic show how important it is to have well-functioning educational institutions and to have well-functioning systems for people to be given the opportunity to study. What is somewhere the difference between the Left Party and the Christian Democrats is that we do not put the students' conditions against those who need personal assistance. 88,000 students are at the bailiff's office. It is because today there is too high a loan element instead of an increased grant component. The loan component therefore wants the Christian Democrats to increase. We know that loans will lead to more young people going into debt. Is it the Christian Democrats' message to Sweden's students that it is okay that more people will be in debt and end up with the bailiff?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-438	Madam President, I would like My message to the students is that we should have a strong welfare system that supports people who are in need of it. As far as student aid is concerned, we maintain that it is a good priority to have access to these loans, which are still advantageous. But I also think it is important that we look at the situation of students as a whole, that we look at housing allowances and those parts so that they have other support systems that really support them in that situation. I agree that everyone should have the opportunity to study and move forward in life based on their goals and ambitions. Together we are building a strong welfare system.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-441	Madam President, I would like Without student support, Sweden stops! Without generous student support, people in our country would not be given the opportunity to pursue studies after completing schooling or later in life. Without generous and equal student support, the supply of skills and future jobs could not be secured and dreams could not be reached. We Social Democrats stand up for generous and equal study support that makes it possible to educate themselves throughout life and throughout the country, where the benefits are both for the individual and for society as a whole. Madam President, I would like The outbreak of the Corona virus has resulted in more people becoming unemployed. Some will be able to return to work when the pandemic gradually fades while others need to adjust and train in order not to risk falling into unemployment for a long time. In order to meet the need for conversion, the Government, together with the cooperation parties the Center Party and the Liberals, has decided on a powerful expansion of the Knowledgelift with 55 000 more places of study next year within, among other things, universities of applied sciences, universities and universities. In order to further strengthen the opportunities, the Government proposes to strengthen the additional loan. For many who have previously worked, the possibility of getting a sufficiently high total amount within the study funds can be crucial in the choice to start studying. Madam President, I would like Knowledge does not become less or less valuable for more people to receive it. On the contrary, knowledge grows when it is shared by more. Education and knowledge must never become a class issue. However, there are many who refrain from studying because they do not dare or know how to use the student grant. Many are unemployed and come from unstudy homes. The socio-economic factors still govern the opportunities for many individuals to continue their education journey. We can never accept that! People are imageable, and so politics must provide support on different conditions so that more dare to take the step that can strengthen and equip them for the jobs waiting around the corner. Start-up aid is such an important measure. The support is aimed at the unemployed aged 25 to 56 with short training and a high level of training needs in order to strengthen their ability to enter the labour market. It is a grant paid for a maximum of 50 weeks for full-time studies. Last year, 6 300 people were granted this aid. A majority chose to study vocational programmes such as health and social care, children and leisure and vehicles and transport, i.e. in short-term occupations – and only 5% discontinued their studies. An overall assessment shows that the start-up grant has created opportunities for people who would not otherwise have started to study. In a recent survey, 41 per cent of the students say that their studies strengthen their self-confidence, and an equal number of people believe that the studies will lead to work. Most people express gratitude for the opportunities they have received through the start-up support. One of the students writes like this: a fantastic means of study to train a little later in life and a smooth way to a job if you want to become self-sufficient after e.g. a burnout without getting into debt over your ears. ..................................................... Another comment is that, for my part, I am pleased that the start-up grant is available. It makes my life easier and I don't have to depend on my husband's electricity supply support. ..................................................... It is gratifying that many of those who received study start-up support during 2019 are now studying further, either with continued upper secondary school studies or in post-secondary education – then with regular study funding. In connection with the coronapandemia, with many short-skilled and unemployed, there will be an even greater potential for study start-up support. This is the view of the municipalities, which welcome the government's increase in resources. Madam President, I would like The general objectives of student support are to promote recruitment and equalisation between individuals and groups, thereby contributing to greater social justice. The start-up support is accurate and meets the goals. Despite this fact, there is compact opposition from Christian Democrats and Swedish democrats to maintaining support. The right-wing conservative parties want to close the door to basic studies that lead to jobs for thousands of individuals who, without the start-up grant, had not started studying. These thousands of individuals want Christian Democrats and Swedish democrats to give up the opportunity to study as a nurse, as a child nurse or as a vehicle mechanic – a workforce that the whole of society is calling for. These thousands of individuals want Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats to take away the opportunity to grow with knowledge that strengthens their self-confidence and increases inclusion. These thousands of individuals, Madam President, wish to deliberately deprive Christian Democrats and Swedish democrats of the possibility of a much brighter future. The Swedish Democrats seem blinded by their ideology not to give a crown in contributions to efforts that can make life easier for newcomers, whether it leads to jobs or not. The Christian Democrats, for their part, show a noticeable division. On the one hand, they want to abolish the aid, because they think it is too high and are convinced that it is being misused – although CSN claims that the risk of abuse is minimal. On the other hand, in its special opinion, the same Christian Democratic Party highlights the importance of student support contributing to smoothing out differences in economic conditions among individuals and between groups in society. Double standards is the word! Madam President, I would like Here is a clear dividing line between us Social Democrats and the right-wing conservative parties. We open doors in the education system at all levels and create student support adapted even for individuals with greater needs so that more can be hired and get jobs. We know that many hesitate or refrain from studying. This is particularly true for individuals a little higher in age who need to study at lower levels of education. Doubt has nothing to do with talent, but often stems from uncertainty that is often linked to a social background where there has been neither studies nor student loans. Therefore, the start-up support is an important door opener for many who would not otherwise have started their studies – and, Madam President, an important part of Swedish competence provision. I am proud that for a long time we have built up a generous and equal study support in Sweden that enables people with different economic backgrounds to educate themselves, change careers and train themselves throughout their lives and throughout the country and give them the opportunity to achieve the goals of their dreams. Our S-governed government has introduced study start-up support for the unemployed with a short educational background and increased the grant part of the study facility by SEK 300 per month. Now we also raise the upper limit for eligibility to study funding from 56 to 60 years to meet lifelong learning. And, Madam President, the reform work continues. That's how we build our society strong. Madam President, I would like Without generous and equal student support, Sweden stays! I support the committee's proposal.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-473	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Sweden and the world are in a pandemic. It affects life and health, but it also affects jobs and businesses. When companies suffer from falling demand and empty order books, society as a whole suffers. Many people have been on short-term leave. They're big. People are in unemployment and do not enter the labour market. In times such as these, conversion and further training are particularly important, and this is facilitated so that more people are better equipped when the economy turns around and so that businesses can obtain the necessary skills. The same applies, of course, to the public sector. In many professions, skills shortages have been too high for too long. We can see it in the faculty and among preschool teachers, nurses and nurses. These are important occupations in society, and we need more of these people and these trainings in order to better take care of our elderly and our sick and teach the young. However, it is not only people who have a job who are affected by the effects of the pandemic on the labour market. We can see in particular that those who have been far from the labour market are now finding it more difficult to enter and are even further away from it. Youth and foreign-born opportunities to enter the labour market have been particularly affected by the pandemic and unemployment among young people has doubled compared with the corresponding period last year. Madam President, I would like I am proud that many efforts are now being made to get more training places to face the crisis. Investments are made in education and training at folk high school, vocational college, university of applied sciences and college. These are both short-term and long-term training courses. This is important both for those who have been on short-term leave and for those who have become unemployed. However, it is not the case that the most important thing is that there are study places, but there also needs to be good opportunities for people to study further. The means of study, which is today the subject of the debate, is a key factor for more people to take the step of education. The Center Party, together with the government and the Liberals, is making several investments in terms of the means of study in this budget. In particular, I would like to highlight three parts. Firstly, with more training places there is also a need for more study funding. This is matched in the budget that we are debating today. Secondly, the possibility of receiving study funds that can cover the cost of living may be crucial in the choice of study. The budget increases the focus on the additional loan available. Students who are at least 25 years of age and who have had a certain annual income the year before the start of the study may receive additional funding to thus have a better opportunity to go to studies. The increase aims, among other things, to make it easier for people with previous income who need, for example, to study a supplementary course, a two-year vocational or master's programme or a supplementary educational education leading to a subject teacher's degree. Thirdly, Madam President, steps are at last being taken to make it possible for people to study higher up in their ages. It is an issue that the Center Party has been pushing for a long time; we presented a proposal for this already in Almedalen in 2017 and pushed the issue in the election movement. This became part of the January Agreement, and steps are now being taken to introduce it as well. Raising the limit for taking study funding from 56 years to 60 years is not least important at a time when the labour market is changing and when people are expected to work longer and therefore also need to retrain and educate themselves throughout life. This is an effort that promotes transition and further training for a great many people. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Presidium of Presidents, the secretariat of the Committee and the whole committee a Merry Christmas in the final debate of the committee. I hope you will also have a happy New Year!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-486	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report as a whole to be approved. I would like to start by saying that there are probably several of us here in the room – although we are quite few – who lost their breath the first time we opened the message from CSN after completed studies when the first repayment plan came. It felt like it came about the same time as the first salary. The reaction was about: How was it so much money? Despite this somewhat unwelcome surprise in the post office at the beginning of your career, the Swedish study aid system is good. The alternatives terrify. We do not want a society where it is your parents' money that determines whether you can become an engineer, an economist or anything else. Madam President, I would like We liberals like to talk about your background not deciding your future. The Swedish study aid system makes it possible to live up to just that. Generous means of study and a permanently high amount of freedom for those working and studying at the same time are important prerequisites for anyone who wants to be able to continue studying after high school. That is the objective of the Liberals, but we are not quite there yet. We are in favour of the government responding to the call for the abolition of the release in 2020. We are still pushing in the framework of the January cooperation in order for the same to happen in 2021. In recent years, the study funding system as an opportunity for conversion has increased in importance. The labour market no longer looks like it did a number of decades ago. The labour market is constantly changing, which means that more people will have to train for life. Some will need to change their profession, retrain within the same and so on. This requires that those who want or need to study have the opportunity to finance such studies. The Coronapendem of the past year has only accelerated this development. In a changing and flexible working life, everyone should have the opportunity to continuously further educate themselves. Liberals, like the centre member here, are very pleased that the age limit for who can take study money is now raised from 56 years to 60 years. Madam President, I would like I won't argue about who was the first to make this proposal. We can only say that the Liberals have been doing this for a long time. Sweden has a strong study aid system, and with the help of the new rules more people will have the opportunity to study. It is something good and something positive. Madam President, I would like I have to admit that the Liberals have not always had too warm feelings for the start-up aid, which we have debated extensively here today. But there is also a strength in being able to compromise and move their positions. We have done the same, and I would like to take this opportunity to tell you about a meeting I had on Monday with the Romano Center in the West. This is part of the City of Gothenburg with the aim of offering services to those in Gothenburg and surrounding areas belonging to the national minority Roma. Rome has been and is still subject to harassment and discrimination. Many lack faith in a society that has repeatedly betrayed them and the generations before. Many have very limited schooling. At the Romano Center in the West, guidance guides work to help Roma get into education or work. Maria, who works there as a study counselor, says that in one year almost 50 people, most women, have enrolled in adult education at the basic level, thanks to the start-up support. It is a support that allows men and women with a short educational background who are far removed from the labour market to take a step closer to jobs and self-sufficiency. This is an example from reality where politics has made a difference. With this, I would like to wish the committee, the Presidium of Presidents and others in this Chamber who do not belong to any of those categories a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-500	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Maria Nilsson, for your speech. I am very pleased when Maria Nilsson says that the Liberals are fighting for the release amount to be removed in 2021. The Moderates and Christian Democrats put a committee initiative in the Education Committee on 3 December, which was unfortunately rejected, including by the Liberals. I wonder why.
i-UGRN82xUHm4v7izMRrg3PP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for the question. We have budgetary cooperation with the government and the Center Party, which means that, if I am going to be bureaucratic, it is difficult to approve committee initiatives that have budgetary implications. We're pushing in other channels. I have been clear on both the radio and when we decided why we rejected the initiative. We are now pushing ahead with the government in the framework of our cooperation.
i-X7vBsxnqsjBWZa6oFetDsU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Nilsson, for your answer. I understand very well what Maria Nilsson says. At the same time, however, I am disappointed by this. I know that the Liberals think it is an important issue and therefore think that it would have been good if you had supported our committee initiative.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-505	Madam President, I would like We have more opportunity to realise this because we have budget cooperation with the government. Let me remind Mr Sandström of what happened to the university test. It was implemented after all, and it was implemented within the framework of the January cooperation. The honourable Member shall not give up hope of the release.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-507	Madam President, I would like Sweden is at the forefront of international comparisons in higher education and research. We are among the top nations in terms of quality and quantity in research. We invest a lot of money and have a large proportion of researchers. The general level of education is high, and we have many with higher education in the population. This is the result of many years of generous education policy, for which we have broad support and great acceptance among the population. We have free universities and colleges, at least for Swedes and EU citizens, and one of the world's most comprehensive student support systems. We have this in order to be able to apply for further studies after comprehensive school and upper secondary school, or later in life if you have a need or just want to study further, perhaps to develop your skills, to follow the technological development in your own workplace or to go to another job. This is, of course, important for the supply of skills in industry, industry, civil society and the public sector. It is also important to balance the differences between different groups in society, for an equal and equal society where more people have access to opportunities. Studies are positive for quality of life and living conditions later in life. The educational background correlates positively with factors such as better health, stronger economy, life expectancy and so on. Good education is one of the UN's global goals for sustainable development, objective number four. We are committed to ensuring inclusive and equal quality education and promoting lifelong learning for all. By enabling education for more, we build a stronger world and here in Sweden a stronger and more sustainable society, but also stronger individuals. Therefore, since it took office six years ago, the Red-Green Government has focused heavily on the entire education chain, from preschool and beyond. We broaden recruitment and make it possible for more people. We are currently, for example, in the midst of a historically large expansion of the number of places in the university. This initiative will be stepped up for next year with funds for 19 000 new places. Such an effort would have been completely impossible without the student grant. We are now moving on and enabling higher-age studies. The budget provides funds for increased age limits in the student benefit system. We are getting older, and the elderly are getting healthier. Vocational training, retraining and labour market transition are becoming increasingly important to keep up with technological developments. At the same time, retirement ages are rising, and working life is becoming longer. Then it is reasonable that the study aid system should be included. This is, of course, part of the January agreement between the government and the cooperation parties. We will also meet in the budget for next year with an increased additional loan so that more people who have a background in working life can study. Madam President, I would like The study support has been one of many instruments that we have been able to use to pair the effects of the coronapndemine. The rules for start-up aid were eased early in the pandemic, so that new unemployed people could also jump into primary or secondary education, receive funding for it, and through studies qualify back into the labour market. Foreign students have been allowed to retain student support even if schools are closed or education is withdrawn. Furthermore, we abolished the release. We did not want to risk that people who have worked and earned money during the first months of the semester but then perhaps lost their job because of the Corona crisis and therefore chose to study would not hit the ceiling for the release if they were given study funding. It was also, and perhaps more important, that students, preferably in medical and other health care educations, who have wanted to contribute to health care and therefore either dropped out or paused their studies or worked in parallel with the studies, should not suffer to earn too much and be liable for reimbursement. The waiver is for the end of the year. It's been a good move. To what extent it has been effective, we do not know yet, but if nothing else, it has had an important signal effect. There are several people who have discussed this today. I have every respect for those who wish to extend the abolition of the amount of the exemption, but I am a little hesitant to extend it. It has been of great value this year, especially because the pandemic came and hit in the middle of the semester, at the turn of March/ April, when people have had to change their plans at short notice. I don't really see the same need now. Madam President, I would like Of course, I think it's good if students choose to work extra in health care, for example as assistant nurse who is usually current – the care really needs reinforcements in this situation – at half-time or even more than half-time without hitting the ceiling for the release. The limit for the release is 90 000 SEK for six months – I think it is even 92 000 SEK next year. Working in health care at half-time while studying to become a full-time teacher or nurse will be pretty tough. Here we risk losing students, and if it is something we need right now, it is finished doctors, nurses and other health professionals – not drop-outs or more drop-outs. I think you should read the study grant inquiry that came in 2018. It states that extra jobs during the studies are positive for both study results and other things, but this only applies up to a relatively low level. If it is more than that, the investigator refers to several studies that have been carried out that show that the study results are falling by too much work. On the other hand, I think, I should say in this context too, that the proposals in the study on an age-differentiated free amount limit, where one can raise it a little for older students and lower it for younger ones, are quite interesting. We may have the opportunity to talk about this another time. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Berglund, for your post! I have to say that it is very strange when we first hear that you think something is good, and then you say that that is why you will not do it. Nevertheless, the discussion about the release has been very positive among students. Mats Berglund has not heard that it has been positive; then I can tell you that I have heard that it is positive. I, who work in healthcare, have a lot of contact with healthcare professionals in many different categories, especially nurses, nurses and doctors, who think it was very positive. It is still the case that you also have an experience. Apart from helping the nursing staff who are tired and, as my colleague Stefan said earlier, may not get time off for Christmas, you also get an experience that hopefully makes it more positive and can be motivating for the studies. Most may not reach this amount either. They may not work as much as Mats Berglund is worried about, but it is a positive signal that you want students to be able to help without being worried about the release. When I've been working, we've called in staff to work extra hours that said they'd like to work but can't do the free amount. I think that is a negative signal, so I hope you can change your mind on this point.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-529	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for the question. I think this is a matter for discussion, so let's do it. It's a matter of considerations. We have a conflict of interests, and I really want to raise that. There are risks of abolishing the amount of the release. I also know that there are parties that want to abolish it not only because of the pandemic but perhaps want to seize the opportunity now during the pandemic and try to abolish it in order to stimulate more work during the studies. I believe – or I know, because I have read the investigation – that there are great risks in doing so. I have also looked at the studies that the Study Funding Survey points to that show that the pace of study is deteriorating for students who work too much. If it is not too much, however, it is, as Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström says, positive with work during the studies. But then you stay quite far below the levels of the free amount. It is, of course, good for the private economy. You also get experience from the labour market and come in there. Students also mean that you get more focus on the studies if you work a little and do something else. So work is good, but not too much. I'll say that as a university teacher I also have my own experience in this. I may just be a sour old man as a teacher, but I think I have the right to get mad when I run into students who don't come to mandatory seminars every semester on the grounds that they can't turn down work. These are often jobs where you do not really have the power over time yourself. I then see students who have to go over the semester after, and as teachers it is terribly frustrating.
i-WXJ4gJU5miMvYLC6vAbMtQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Berglund, for your answer! We're looking at this a little differently. As a doctor, I have worked a lot as a supervisor, and I can say that many students have said that when they enter the workplace they get motivation to study, because they see what they can learn even more. I believe, therefore, that many have seen it as very positive. However, it is not said that you should work too much so that you do not have time for your studies or do not have time to attend their seminars. This is an extreme situation. After all, we do not intend the pandemic to remain, but this is something that is temporary. We hope that it will pass now that, for example, the vaccine has arrived. That is why I still see this as a temporary solution, but I think that one might think about the issue of the free amount. I welcome the fact that you can work, and I know that many people are worried about health workers and that they are not allowed to leave for Christmas. After all, many students have Christmas holidays and could work over Christmas, for example. I still hope that we can see a change and see that work experience can be positive in order to improve studies.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-539	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is a matter of considerations, but let us not forget that in six months, 92 000 kroner is quite a lot of money. It is not very high-paid jobs that we talk about for students in general, and to study full-time on a tough education and work half-time in an even tougher reality in the care during the pandemic I think is difficult to manage. 15 000 kroner a month is quite a lot of money, and you may not need an extra loan above all – you get into debt unnecessarily. Nevertheless, we have raised the free amount limit quite substantially precisely to enable people to work and gain experience from the labour market.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Berglund! I would also like to say thank you for respectful tones and constructive talks; I think that is the way forward for finding solutions. The honourable Member said in the speaker's chair that it will be quite difficult to work while studying. I agree with that. It's gonna be pretty tough. At the same time, we must be realistic. We're in the middle of a pandemic where it's extremely tough for the care. Madam President, we have a situation where care is at the breaking point. From the Christian Democrats, we believe that every single person who can go in and help and support up so that we can get out of this crisis is so valuable. Certainly it will be tough to combine studies and work. But I think there are many who are willing to do so, and I also believe that many have the capacity to do so, to put in this extra gear. We have never seen a crisis like this before. However, like my fellow Member from the Moderates, I am pleased that the honourable Member is cautiously in favour of this, and I would like to know whether the honourable Member will continue to work on this issue with his colleagues in the government.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-545	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland! I think I was giving the impression that I do not think that the continued abolition of the amount of the exemption is a good way forward at the moment. With this, I do not want to completely close the door. I think we need more knowledge, and as far as I know, it is being worked on in the Government Office. Actually, I don't really know how it goes there. Firstly, I would like to say that we are not closing the doors for those students who want to work in health care. As I said, they can work quite a lot. If they hit the ceiling, it's not like all the money is put away right away. It will be a gradual cut by half of what you earn, so you still get quite a lot of money. You get more money when you're working than when you only get student grants. I explained my thoughts earlier to Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, but I would still like to ask about the risk issue. How do the Christian Democrats and Pia Steensland view that we risk getting defectors and thus do not get graduated doctors, healthcare professionals and nurses to the extent that we need for the future? The effects of the Corona, just as Pia Steensland did in her speech, will be imminent for a long time. We need these people. We will probably need many more graduates than medical students who work extra as nurses under rather stressful conditions.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-549	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is important for society to reward those who go beyond their responsibilities and try to do their utmost to help. That's why we think you shouldn't risk losing your student allowance if you do that little extra. The Christian Democrats have put forward proposals regarding wage support for people who have left the healthcare profession and come back, so that they can get an extra pot to the payroll fund when they go in and help because the crisis is so great. We on this side see that the risk of healthcare collapse is now much greater than our mistrust that people themselves can determine and balance how studies and work can be combined.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-551	Madam President, I would like I think we agree here that these are considerations, that there are objectives that we need to confront each other and that we actually need to do so. What we have not lifted up are the costs, which are also part of this. Unfortunately, we know little about the effects during the year, and we do not really know what the costs were. But it was budgeted 1 billion, and that's a lot of money. If the cost was now 1 billion, the money could be used for other things, such as raising the study funds for those who really need it. If there is a possibility of directing a waiver to only certain groups, it is clear that the costs will also be reduced. I believe that the considerations must continue to be opposed to each other, but I would nevertheless like to point out that I believe that the risks outweigh, possibly also the costs, if you insert them.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-553	Madam President, I would like Today, from the Social Security Committee, we are going to debate the report on Category 10. Madam President, I would like Health insurance is one of the tools that is common to us in Sweden and our society and that constitutes our basic security. None of us in here or outside this building knows whether we will ever be seriously ill or ill. That is why we in Sweden have compulsory health insurance that we fund together and where we say that those who fall outside have a safety net that catches up. It becomes increasingly clear when we are in the midst of a pandemic, a pandemic where none of us know whether our life or health is in danger. But we're in danger because no one's immune and there's no vaccine. We know that we have large groups in our society that are extra vulnerable, and if the virus hits them, their lives may be in absolute danger. Just look at all our hospitals and the death tolls that are rising more and more every day. Madam President, I would like During this year, our committee, together with the government, with which we have good cooperation on many issues, has taken the initiative, among other things, to extend the remuneration of risk groups, i.e. workers who risk their lives if they go to work. It was decided that instead they would receive compensation and be able to stay at home and not put their lives at risk. And parents who have a child at risk should not be forced to work but be able to stay at home and take care of the child until the virus has been combated. Madam President, I would like It worked very well at the beginning of the pandemic. The Government made a proposal to extend the remuneration of risk groups for 90 days. When there were four days left, the government woke up and extended the compensation, on the initiative of the committee. This happened not only once, but twice, that is, the government was slow. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of how the government governs its agencies, there is no clear follow-up, and this is also reflected in these issues. The Moderates came forward with a committee initiative to grant an exemption for the examination of work capacity after 180 days for those who have suffered from covid-19, because we know very little about it. We know how to treat hernias and knee problems, but covid-19 we know very little about. There are many in our society who have suffered very seriously as a result of covid-19. It may be a person who has been in a respirator for 30 - 40 days, who has lost all weight and has not touched the body or anything. The person probably has the ability to work in his or her normal place of work, but recovery takes time. As we know very little about the disease and that the health care system is under pressure, we went forward with an initiative to extend it. The government made a proposal on the day the initiative was to be discussed, but if you are responsible for a country and have a whole department behind you, you should always be at the forefront. But enough about that. What we Moderates also want is for the government to develop insurance medicine decision-making documents for mental diagnoses. We know very much about the treatment of traditional diseases, which I mentioned – knee problems, back problems, shoulder problems etcetera – but we see that the number of sick leave due to psychosocial ill health is increasing. Today, there is no policy-making basis on which both the administrator at Försäkringskassan and the doctor can base themselves, so that at least one tries to work in a uniform manner. Today it is a bit like a lottery when you visit the doctor or when you come into contact with the Social Insurance Agency. It can be absolutely crucial how a medical opinion is written or what commitment there is in the case. That is why it is incredibly important to develop an insurance medical decision-making basis for mental diagnoses, because once people have been on sick leave, the principle and goal should be that as many people as possible should return to work. If there's anything we see in the coronapademine, it's the consequence of being isolated and shielded from social contacts. Sickness insurance and sickness benefit should go to the person in need, and there are and will be groups that will not be able to return to normal work or to the labour market at all. But the ambition should be that as many as possible should come back to some form of work. It is about the view of man and of human dignity. More and more people are getting mental diagnoses, and what we know is that social contact is extremely important. It is only to look at our elderly and what they get to go through at our retirement homes when they are cut off from the rest of society. Health insurance must not become an insurance policy that sends people into long-term exclusion, as it did in the early 2000s. Enough about that, Madam President. The Moderates' draft budget is a coherent unit, and since the Parliament in step one – the Framework Decision – has supported the government's framework for the state budget and the orientation of budgetary policy, we are not taking part in the current decision. Instead, we refer to our particular opinion.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-565	Madam President, I would like My question to Mr Arin from the Moderates is this: In the midst of a burning pandemic, the Moderates are putting forward proposals that would make life much more difficult for the sick. In what way does increased insecurity and the risk of poverty make the sick healthier?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-566	Madam President, I would like I do not know which question to answer, Madam President, but I think that our actions in committee during this year show that it is the opposite. On two occasions the government has dragged its feet when it comes to extended compensation to risk groups. It was becoming a glitch where people had been properly secured. It is easy to turn on the big drum and use big words, but it is not Arin Karapet and the Moderates who are in government position. I belong to the opposition, Madam President. Mattias Vepsä as a social democrat is now in opposition to himself. My question is why the Social Democrats and Mattias Vepsä are dragging their feet and waiting for the Social Security Committee to do the work for the Ministry of Social Affairs.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-568	Madam President, I would like Last spring, the Moderates quickly went out and proposed EUR 100 billion per month in support of companies, because it was not the fault of companies that the pandemic struck. However, the same party thinks that it is the disease's fault that they are sick and want to save 7 billion on them. In the midst of a burning pandemic, the Moderates are putting forward their own draft budget, and I must inform the honourable Member that his party is proposing new days in its own budget. It proposes lower compensation and, above all, proposes a new headstock – which would hit those who are the most ill in our society, namely the long-term ill. My question is, therefore, once again: in what way does increased insecurity and greater risk of poverty make the most sick healthier?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-570	Madam President, I would like We are in the midst of a burning pandemic, and now the great attacks against me and the Moderates are coming about our particular statement. But it is actually Mattias Mattias's party that runs the country. Why haven't you made the changes you're talking about, Mattias Vepsä? Why are you waiting for the opposition to take the initiative so that covids or at-risk groups do not fall into a gap and actually get insured here and now? It also says a little about the view of people and health insurance. We believe that people can get back to work, and our goal is for as many people as possible to do so. Then the costs will also be reduced. We are not hitting those who are the sickest, it is about you being able to get back to work. You've been well once, and now you're sick. You can get well again. That's the goal.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-572	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by asking Mr Arin and the Moderates how they view the proposals put forward in the budget. We have an ongoing pandemic, and the spread of infection is large. We see what the consequences have been, and in that situation the Moderates propose to introduce an additional Karen Day. While we see that this year alone, more than 20 000 people are seeking support in the country's municipalities, even though they are on sick leave by a doctor, the Moderates are proposing that the precipice and the distant parentheses be reinstated. How does that rhyme with reality?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-573	Madam President, I would like When the Moderates say something is a temporary exception, it becomes a temporary exception. I understand that we have different ideological orientations and different views on our security systems, health insurance, etcetera, but we make temporary exceptions just during a burning pandemic. We know very little about what it means to be covid sick, and there is no rehabilitation chain ready for someone who is covid sick – or for someone at risk. But we're actually going to get back to normal when there's a vaccine. Our focus is that society should not leave anyone behind. This means that there should be a follow-up for the person who is ill. It should not end as it did in the early 2000s, when you got a decision from Försäkringskassan and then didn't get a single call to from Försäkringskassan or the rest of society. They were sent out into lifelong exclusion and left entirely alone. There are always shortcomings, and shortcomings must be corrected. I can take a living example, namely my mother. My mother was fully healthy in the early 2000s and was one of those who was early retired by the Government Göran Persson. I can say this: She was not ill, but when she heard from the whole community that she was sick, she began to believe it. It took her years to get back to work. This caused me, who grew up in such a home, to suffer greatly. What enabled her to get back into the rest of society was that it began to follow up. They started calling and saying, "How are you?" We know you exist! Today she has only six months left to retire, but she did many years in the labour market after that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-577	Madam President, I would like The Member seems to think that the Left Party is against rehabilitation and health and safety efforts, but I think he has instead read the Moderate Party Book. For those of you who do not know that, today, I will reveal that I myself was one of the people that the honourable Member is talking about. I had activity compensation because I had a chronic illness. But there were better medications, and I could go back to work. During that time, however, I received a completely different help than when, for example, I have been on sick leave now. So I think there are several different pictures of how that is. I was very pleased to see that the Moderates have submitted an issue where they want the government to ensure that the sick leave rates cannot be squeezed down by regulation in the governance. That is why my last question is: will the Moderates approve of the initiative of the Left Party in committee, which deals precisely with this issue?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-580	Madam President, I would like I don't know exactly what the question is and who asked it. Perhaps it comes from an individual Member, which I suspect. In conclusion, I would like to say in this debate: we are in the midst of a burning pandemic. We make temporary exceptions to relieve health care and ensure that people at risk do not have to put their own lives at risk. But we will come to a situation where there is a vaccine, and our goal as a society should always be that those who are ill should get a conversation and proper care. The committee has taken the initiative that the government is lacking in its follow-up and governance of Försäkringskassan. It is not acceptable that a person on sick leave is not contacted by his employer, health care or Försäkringskassan. No chain is stronger than its weakest link, and it is our responsibility to make sure that the whole chain works – so that as many people as possible will get back to work.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-583	Madam President, I would like Sweden is currently in a very tough time. Welfare is under intense pressure, and the heroes of health care work hard both to care for them with covid-19 and to handle all other medical care. I would like to express my great thanks to all the social functions that are now struggling hard in this burning pandemic. I would also like to send my warm condolences to all those who have lost loved ones during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the budget for Category 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. Safe health insurance is one of the most important foundations for a secure welfare. In particular, during a pandemic, it is crucial – in order to prevent the spread of infection by removing the withdrawal of withdrawals, to protect persons at risk from exposure by providing compensation to risk groups and to be a necessary safety net for those affected by the disease. However, I believe that the government has limped considerably in fulfilling this, although some measures have been taken under severe pressure from the opposition. Madam President, I would like We invest most of all parties in category 10 for 2021. We invest a total of 5.3 billion more than the government. However, since the framework has already been decided, we put our draft budgets forward in a separate opinion. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, it has been shown that the virus resulting in the covid-19 disease does not behave like a common flu but, in addition to being life-threatening, can provide long-lasting suites afterwards. For many, this has resulted in sick leave and difficulties in getting back to work. Several of those affected by covid-19 are also people who have become ill after having volunteered and worked in healthcare during the pandemic. The fact that these people are then told about insurance because of a rigid regulatory framework is scandalous. Unfortunately, insurance on these grounds is not something new for many people in Sweden. We have a situation where people get rid of their sickness benefit despite the fact that assessment and certification of obstacles to work are available from both employment services and doctors. This shows that we have health insurance that does not work properly. Madam President, I would like On top of all the other problems, already overcrowded care with long waiting times is now even more congested during the pandemic and access to care and rehabilitation is severely limited. In such a situation, extraordinary measures should have been taken by the government. We had proposed that the 180-day limit be completely frozen until day 365, but since this was not heard in committee, we proposed in an initiative that the temporary regulation, which could at least make exceptions for people to be insured after 180 days when they did not even have access to care and treatment, should in any case be extended after the end of the year. We also felt that the regulation should be broadened and reviewed, as it proved to be flawed. We were then in December, and the government had not yet announced an extension. Several parties put forward initiatives in this regard. On the same day that we were going to take a decision in committee, the government announced that they were going to extend the regulation. It is fortunate that the government has an opposition that lies on them. The fact that the government only acts under pressure from the opposition has been speaking for the whole of this autumn. It is, of course, positive that the government is extending the temporary regulation, but, as I said, we still think it has major shortcomings. There are still examples of people being insured out even though they have not received the care and treatment they should be entitled to. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have long criticized the stone-hard border at day 180. It's not something we've started with during the pandemic. Today, people after 180 days will be judged against fantasy jobs throughout the labour market, a labour market with very exciting jobs where you don't need to be able to walk, where you don't need to have any cognitive ability and where you can rest on working time and work with both heart fibrillation and cancer. I'm sorry, I'm raking a little bit. This type of job is probably very rare in reality. However, according to the assessments and documentation these people receive from Försäkringskassan there is this type of job. In 2015, 10 per cent of those who left health insurance at day 180 did so because of rejection. So far this year, according to new figures, as much as 40% have left it on the grounds of rejection. This is a dramatic increase that has taken place under the Social Democratic Government. At the same time, of course, we do not see an end in itself with long sick leave and people being left out of it. In the long term, this can contribute to mental illness. But no one chooses to get sick. It could happen to any of us. In this situation, I believe that the focus must shift from the government's objective of bringing down sickness rates at any cost, regardless of the human suffering it may entail, and producing fine statistics to the right support and rehabilitation and creating conditions and positive incentives for a return to work in small steps. Madam President, I would like Against this background, in our budget we have proposed, also in the long term, to postpone the test being carried out against the entire labour market by day 180 to day 365. We believe that the examination carried out at day 180 should instead be limited primarily to the own employer, or at least to real jobs, which exist in reality, in its own professional field. This is a proposal that we have been pursuing since 2018 but unfortunately has not been heard for. On the other hand, it is promising that the government has now announced that legislative changes for the assessment after 180 days will come in March next year so that exceptions to the review can be made more easily at day 180. In order to further facilitate the pandemic, we have proposed and budgeted for, at the beginning of the year, to automate the trial after 60 days so that there is no review of the medical certificates. It should simply be enough with a medical certificate. Then I think that the medical certificates and the doctor's assessment of people's health and work capacity must be greatly improved. We also have proposals for the full abolition of the carer's allowance – not only having a flat-rate allowance, as the government has, but full sick pay from day one. Madam President, I would like Moreover, in our budget we invest resources on those who are most vulnerable in health insurance and have sickness benefits at guarantee level. We invest 500 million to strengthen the sickness benefit by 300 SEK a month. We also strengthen the housing supplement to the same level as for pensioners, as we believe that it is completely unreasonable for people with permanent illness or disability to have worse conditions than pensioners. For this we budget SEK 700 million annually. Madam President, I would like A number of investigations into health insurance have also revealed serious shortcomings in the investigation work around the individual. According to the basis of the Government's own budget proposal, there are an average of 400 days for women and 392 days for men before the first reconciliation meeting takes place – 400 days! I lost my chin when I read it. That is not acceptable. We also look with concern at the fact that the targeted contributions that have been made to the sick leave process under an agreement between the Government and SKR will end from 2022, despite the fact that the deficiencies are still huge. To improve support for the individual, we invest SEK 100 million more than the Government for 2021 and SEK 500 million more for 2022 and 2023 to compensate for the withdrawal of these contributions. Madam President, I would like It is also a very worrying development that sick leave due to mental illness is increasing sharply. This is today one of the most common reasons for sick leave, and many people feel that they are confronted with incomprehension and ignorance in the assessment of sickness benefit. We also have a major effort to reduce the cost of sick pay for micro and small businesses. This could also lower the threshold for hiring people after a long period of sick leave. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that I am deeply distressed and concerned about the serious situation of many who have already been assured. I would really like to call on the government and Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi to send new signals now, immediately, to the Social Insurance Agency. It can no longer be superior to reduce the number of sick days. It must be superior to provide the right support and rehabilitation to the individual and not secure people in the midst of a burning pandemic. I hope that we can achieve long-term and sustainable changes in health insurance and, when we have reached that point, that the people who have been insured will be able to get a chance to reconsider. It is about time that we now have a more sustainable, legal and safe health insurance. Madam President, I would like This is the last debate before Christmas, and I would like to thank all the members of the committee and the secretarial staff for this very special year. Despite some differences of opinion, I think we have had good discussions and discussions in these extraordinary circumstances. I would also like to extend my special thanks to the Bureau, which, despite technical challenges with long meetings of Skype, has managed to make a good sense of it and has allowed everyone to speak. I would like to send a special greeting to Solveig who ends now after Christmas. Thank you for your many wise contributions and your pragmatic approach in many contexts! I wish you the best of luck with what you'll do in the future! Merry Christmas to everyone in committee and also to the Presidium of Presidents!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-608	Madam President, I would like It sounds very good when Mrs Julia talks about the right to compensation for those who have suffered from illness. But my question is: why are the Swedish Democrats not taking away the penalty tax on all pensioners in your draft budget?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-609	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Mr Gabrielsson for the question. This is something we're looking at. Of course, we should be able to achieve more equal and fair taxes. We have looked at this with regard, for example, to the issue of pensions. This year in particular, we have chosen to increase the guarantee level of sickness benefit in order to at least compensate in some way. These are always difficult priorities to make in health insurance. We have a lot of bets. We have, for example, proposed a one-off grant of SEK 10 000 to everyone during the alarming pandemic so that it will also reach those who have sickness benefits, pensions or various forms of benefits. We are doing this to ensure that it does not only apply to those who work and receive tax credits. Removing this treasure is a suggestion that we will take with us and look at to see how we will approach it in the future. We are spending 5.3 billion more than the government in this area, and we have many different proposals, including strengthening the housing supplement, which will enable those who have sickness benefits to have a strengthened economy.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-613	Madam President, I would like I wish to begin by regretting that the Swedish Democrats, like many other parties, do not think that the income of sick people is as much worth as that of other people. The Left Party adds the most to the sick in this field of expenditure. The Swedish democrats and some other parties spend money on McDonald's restaurants and give them a reduction of the employer's contribution. The sick get with our proposals 2 000 kroner a month after tax. That is much more than what the Swedish Democrats put on them in their budget.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-615	Madam President, I would like No, we do not value the compensation for the sick less than any other compensation. As I said, we are one of the parties that spend the most on strengthening the economy of this group, both by strengthening sickness benefit and by strengthening the housing supplement. Then you can always do more. We have set aside money in the budget to change the assessment in the rehabilitation chain, which can prevent people from being insured and being completely unremunerated. We have also proposed a relaxation of the regulatory framework for sickness benefit, because today 80% of their applications for sickness benefit are rejected. So we have also spent money on such investments in our budget. I find it regrettable that Ida Gabrielsson believes that we do not value the contributions to the sick when we are one of the parties with the most generous draft budgets for health insurance.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-618	Madam President, I would like Corona has made many people realize that we can all get sick. Imagine that it would take a pandemic for more politicians to begin to understand that illness or disability is not something you choose but is something you suffer from! When the S- and MP government introduced numerical targets on the number of sick days in 2015, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency started to develop methods to reject applications from people who are obviously too sick to work without legal support. It is not only the Left Party that is critical of this. Scientists have called it a legal scandal. Since then, the proportion of insured persons has quadrupled. It is clear that the government's governance has been completely compromised. The numerical target has been removed, but the working methods remain. Instead of reducing the number of insurance policies, they have increased. This year's statistics show that the percentage of rejections is a further record. Försäkringskassan believes that behind the sharp increase lies so-called quality checks, which without bureaucrats Swedish means that they double-check any decision that means a yes to extended sickness benefit. The Director General of the Cashier says that they have abandoned the way of working where the lack of so-called objective findings was the basis for the rejection. But that is not the reality. It is proven that people with, for example, sytomdiag noses, such as certain extreme pain conditions, are denied continued compensation when, despite the medical certificate and despite all the knowledge and research available in the field, it is claimed that it is not possible to prove that the person who is ill is really ill. The Social Security Inspection also criticises the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's handling of the activity compensation and the government's control of the agency. I quote from the report, which states that it is problematic that the proportion of refusals and grants can commute considerably without any change in legislation or case law, not least from the point of view of legal certainty. ..................................................... Information about the existence of bonus schemes to encourage staff to decide on refusals has come to us several times via the media. Today came the news that at Försäkringskassan's office in Gävle they bet on how many people will die from Corona. An independent review of Försäkringskassan's governance and working methods must be carried out, and the government needs to be clear about what applies in the regulation letter. Everyone who is ill should be entitled to compensation. Madam President, I would like The assistant nurse Christine Udding, whom I have come to know, was infected at work by covid-19. She got long-term ill but was denied sickness benefit. Instead of paying extra money for her contribution, she paid for and spent her vacation during the illness. Christine stepped in when the community needed it. But where is society now for her? Is that the message we want to send to the health care personnel? Aren't we better than that? We don't have enough nurses. But instead of Christine, who now, being able to work at 50 percent and rehabilitate, she is encouraged to quit her job and seek a full-time job, as it is called, in the open labour market. But it's all about fantasy jobs, if you ask me. Do they believe in Santa Claus too? Madam President, I would like The fact that Christine and other sick people have gone out for a long time and told me about what it actually looks like, I am absolutely convinced, is the strongest reason why the Left Party heard the demand to soften the assessment at day 180. However, since the law does not enter into force until March, Christine is not allowed to take part in what she has accomplished. Today, she's covered. But already the day after the announcement Christine put on the visor, bit together and went to work. She wrote on Facebook: Now I'm going to try a colleague for covid-19. And this is my task, so of course I am once again in the front line. My call is therefore: let go of prestige and party politics! Now show me that this can be solved. You'll be there for Christine the way she's been there for us. Let go of the hard trials against the deadlines until the new law comes into force. Madam President, I would like The universal miracle cure in Sweden 2020 seems to be called Försäkringskassan. That was also the case last year, but now unimagined heights have been reached. It is as if Jesus Kristus himself has taken over the authority. Go over there and you'll get well right away! Do you have a tumor that fills half your head? Oh, pull yourself up and choose joy! Instead of laying hands, we now have procedures. And you'll be declared healthy right away. Praised be to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Government's directives! After a visit to the cashier, ME-sickness can go on the water. Madam President, I would like The whole point of departure is wrong. The system is wrong and has been so since the alliance government realized the hunt for the sick. The entire health insurance and rehabilitation chain must be re-established. The sharp deadlines need to be removed, and rehabilitation needs to be individualised and realistic. Medical certificates shall be valid. It should at least be clear to all parties that the deadline of day 365 must also be made more realistic and that the trial against fake jobs should be removed. Many thousands of people are applying for support only this year, even though they are also on sick leave by a doctor. People are forced to live off their loved ones. Some people don't live at all. Suicide has felt like the only way out. For those and all who have lost their SGI as a result of the years of the acquis, society must take responsibility. The Left Party has proposed setting up a crisis commission to review this. People who have been thrown out of the system must be allowed to come back in and be entitled to compensation. But the other parties say no so far. If you are chronically ill or have a disability that means that you cannot work, you should of course be entitled to permanent compensation. That is not the case today. Last year's statistics show a bottom record in the number of grants. Madam President, I would like So what's this year's Christmas present? Parents cannot afford to buy winter jackets for their children. The proportion of families with children living with low economic standards has doubled in the 2000s. At the same time, this year the employer's contribution for young people between 19 and 23 is reduced. According to all the assessors, it's throwing money into the lake. There won't be a single new job. But for McDonald's it will be the coming years of Christmas Eve every day. Some children come back from Christmas holidays and talk about luxurious mountain holidays, while others have not come further than the children's playground. They have not become poor. They've been made poor. Let's be clear about that. It's not because of them. It's not because of their parents. It is because of political decisions that have been taken in this House. Madam President, I would like No one who is sick should have to go to work. The spread of the infection should always be kept down. Therefore, if the left-wing budget were to apply, the deduction would be permanently removed and the guarantee level of the sickness and activity allowance increased. We permanently remove the withdrawal for no one sick to go to work. Of course, the housing allowance should also be increased, in the same way as for old-age pensioners. $1,000 more in your wallet, that would be every month. It's not shame. But there should be more. The Left Party spends by far the most money on this of all parties. But that's not enough. Madam President, I would like Social security contributions have long been around the same level, but payments have been reduced by over 100 billion. It is we wage earners who themselves pay for health insurance with our abandoned pay space. This is our right. It's not a handout. We've earned it. We bring money into the system; others bring out. We build up; others break down. It almost feels like fake news, because it's so crazy. Unfortunately, it is not. No Sherlock Holmes is needed to figure out where the money went. During the same period, the Alliance reduced the tax by over 100 billion. Those who made the most money got the most. The January parties now continue with the same kind of distribution curve. Only this year will the tax be reduced by 30 billion. Nevertheless, the penalty for the country's disability pensioners remains. We take it in the Left Party away in our budget. Madam President, I would like The money is therefore no longer spent on compensation schemes, but on those who earn the most. Forget the petty thieves! Here's the big scam. Madam President, I would like My daughter is five years old. For her, everything about Christmas is magical. Sadly, there are people in Sweden who cannot afford Christmas food. It's carpenters, teachers and nurses-- chronically ill or disabled-- ordinary people like you and me, with the difference that they've had the bad luck of getting sick. A mother of a girl my age writes she wants to die because she can't afford to give her child a Christmas present. Bring it in, that pain! Many have been affected – Daniel, Charlotte and Ann-Marie-Marie. Thousands are the stories I could render. It is so massive that I cannot understand that not everyone can see that something has to be done, and quickly. Is it because they are sick that they are no longer trusted or considered human? Any other explanation is hard to see when so little happens. But at the same time, Madam President, I feel more hopeful than for a long time. There's no longer a contest about who's the best at chasing sick people. People who were long ago secured and not allowed to learn of the improvements that are now coming were the ones who were at the forefront of the improvement we are now seeing. It's big. There's talk of change. Now only action is lacking. I apologize for running over time.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-644	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' proposals regarding this area of expenditure, Economic security in the event of illness and disability, are detailed in our party motion. We also have a special opinion in this section but are not taking part in the decision, as the Christian Democrats' proposal for a framework has already fallen. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that social security should help to create financial security no matter where you are in life. You should be able to trust that the common berries when you are unable to do so. We believe that much more can be done so that more people don't have to get sick. On Monday, family policy and family freedom were discussed. Choosing and deciding for yourself how to use your family puzzle is important for parents'health. We believe that greater economic freedom provides greater security, not least among families with children. We also believe that a different policy from that which has been pursued would have made it possible to cut the long-term care queues. It would also reduce the anxiety and stress of loved ones about being able to receive care on time. With a Christian-democratic policy, where we place emphasis on increasing people's empowerment and freedom of choice, better conditions are created for good health in society. Human dignity is not linked to the number of hours a person works, nor to how productive he or she is. We do not live to work, but a job can be crucial to a person's well-being, self-confidence and self-experience. Basically, man is industrious. We feel good to occupy ourselves and feel involved in the common. This can be done through work, as well as in family, family, and friends. Through a job, a person can create many of the conditions needed to feel involved. It cannot be ignored how important it is to have the opportunity to go to a job. I also think of all the small children who may not have the opportunity to see Mom and Dad go to a job. It makes me a little sad. We know that exclusion and vulnerability can often be inherited. So having a preventive perspective, which I started with, is important, as is an effective rehabilitation work to enable people to return to work. Madam President, I would like A politician should always be humble. A politician must never be so happy in a system that you do not see the problems that can actually appear. There is, I mean, no system that is absolutely perfect and fits everyone to one hundred percent. Of course, this is also true of the rehabilitation chain. The Christian Democrats therefore want to develop the rehabilitation system. We mean that not everyone can work 100 percent of full-time but that everyone should have the opportunity to work 100 percent of their ability. If work capacity, not incapacity for work, is at the centre and is the starting point, more flexibility is needed. That is why we Christian Democrats believe, for example, that we must change the fixed steps in sickness benefit, sickness benefit and rehabilitation allowance of 25, 50, 75 and 100 %. It has to be more flexible. A person may need to go up another 10 percent and can do so in a rehabilitation process. This is being denied to this person today, because the steps are set at 25 % intervals. In order to minimise the risk of things falling between the seats, we also want the Social Insurance Agency to have a much clearer mandate, for example to be responsible for conversion meetings with the Employment Service, which we know to be important. We want to give the insured person the right to something we call a mentor. Those who are in a vulnerable life situation or for other reasons are unable to assimilate a rehabilitation process may need someone at their side as help, sounding board and inspirational – an encouraging hand that can help people to step above a threshold they are unable to step over on their own. A mentor at his side also reduces the risk of a person falling apart. This contributes to reduced stress and anxiety. Madam President, I would like Since the system is designed to support people, we must not turn a blind eye to the problems that arise when times change and conditions change. People who are burned out and/ or depressed must have time to be rehabilitated at their rate. Too many have been insured, not because they have made mistakes, but because rehabilitation has not reached the end of the road or because knowledge is still not at its peak in all types of diseases. We are optimistic about the work that we know will take place in the near future. The government has announced that something will come in March on this. We look forward to participating constructively in a work that together makes sickness benefit and the system better. What I am, however, a little disappointed and still a little upset about is the way the government has handled the long-term illness in covid-19. Several have been secured. Knowledge is not always at its peak when it comes to different things, but when it comes to covid-19, it is almost non-existent. We still don't know much about this virus. Above all, and this is what is of interest to us when we discuss social security, we know very little about the types of rehabilitation interventions to be deployed to help a person who after six months is still long-term ill and has reduced working capacity due to covid-19. The disease is new, so this is nothing strange. But we should be able to take this on board and think: Okay, this is a whole new disease that affects people. There is no correlation to show that you must have been on iva to be long - term ill. Even people with very mild and limited symptoms can be long-term ill after six months. Pending this, we thought that perhaps we should look at how we deal with this particular group. That is why the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, presented a committee initiative on a temporary special derogation from the social security deadlines for the long-term ills in the suites after covid-19. This initiative did not win a hand, so I hope, friends, that together we can continue to do that work. I'm about to debate migration, so I'm not going to wish anyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year yet. However, this debate is certainly the last one I have with Solveig Zander. I am new to Parliament, if you can still say so after two and a half years. You've meant a lot to me, Solveig Zander, not least because I, like you, am in the Pensions Group. It has been so wonderful that as a Christian Democrat sitting next to the center party Solveig Zander in the Social Security Committee and get good advice and some tips along the way. I have appreciated it very much and would like to wish you all the blessing in the future that is now waiting outside the Parliament building after New Year's. Above all – many thanks for everything, Solveig! Good luck!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-663	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Eklind on the fact that the Christian Democrats now seem to have made a reversal and are willing to give more generous entitlement to sickness benefit and sickness benefit. Maybe we can get through the changes in the investigation. There seems to be a majority; the Social Democrats can take note of that in this House. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few things about what Mr Eklind is talking about when it comes to those who are infected with corona and become long-term ill. In September, I presented a committee initiative that this group should be reviewed in a special way and that one could have an exception. Hans Eklind and the Christian Democrats voted 'no' together with the other parties. Then I got better knowledge and realized that it is not possible to exclude a specific diagnosis. In addition, many of those who are long-term patients in covid-19 have a diagnosis of symptoms, and it is not certain that it is precisely covid-19 who has given the symptoms they exhibit. This is a major reason why they are now being left out. So the only way to ensure that there is no mass insurance now during the pandemic is to release the trial against the entire labour market at day 180 for all sick people. If you are a nurse and are likely to be able to change, or it can be reviewed later, you should not have to apply for another job but can take it easy at home. Even if you have become ill and it cannot be established that you are long-term ill in covid-19, you should be tried against the job you have. Is this not reasonable now during the pandemic?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-667	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the questions! First of all, we should not run too much ahead of time when it comes to the work to be done. I said very clearly in the speaker's chair that we are looking forward to being a constructive party so that we can ensure that we get a better working sickness benefit. I do not think that there is really any party that thinks it is reasonable for people to be insured out of work even though they still have reduced working capacity. Only this year have there been a number of proposals in the interim reports, which, we believe, contain a whole series of exciting things that I think we need to move on with. It has also been announced by the Minister for Social Security. It is, for example, about getting started with the process early so that you have time to complete things. The Swedish National Audit Office has also looked at this and concluded that it is too long before the rehabilitation processes start. But it is also about being able to coordinate the work in a better way. There are several people who have to work. I hear very often that the Social Insurance Fund is targeted unilaterally. Försäkringskassan is an important authority, which will lead the work – answer yes. But for a rehabilitation process to work, the individual, the workplace, the entrepreneur and the healthcare system must also be involved. The existence of coordination and support and accountability are, of course, crucial for success. I hope that Ida Gabrielsson has taken note of the Christian Democrats' proposal for a mentor. I would like to return a question: could the Left Party consider supporting this proposal? It is about getting help in the transition from health insurance to the labour market. Here we have a concrete proposal which we are also fully funding. We want workplace advisors to help those who are going to step over the threshold into the labour market.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-671	Madam President, I would like I absolutely believe that the Left Party could do that. We'll have to take the hearing later, but anything that improves for sick leave we'll be in on it right away. What I intended was for the Left Party to put forward a proposal to exempt people who have been affected by long-term illness in covid-19. The Christian Democrats voted against. Then the Christian Democrats and the Moderates put forward the same proposal after we learned that the proposal could not be implemented in reality. Can the Christian Democrats imagine letting go of the time tests against the entire labour market temporarily during the pandemic, or until the law comes into force, so that this group and also other sick people who are now in the midst of a pandemic are not hit this hard?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-674	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson knows that the Christian Democrats, together with a number of different parties, including her own party, have been driving us to find a way to get through the pandemic without people being affected in this way. The fact that covid-19-long-term illness was affected and that we took this initiative was actually due to the fact that this agreement, the midnight agreement, which was made between the government and its support parties, did not solve the problem. It remained a problem that covid-19 sufferers are still covered, because they are not covered by that agreement. That was also why we took this committee initiative; we saw that we had to do a special thing about these particular people. I don't mind being involved in different ways. We Christian Democrats have really driven a number of different proposals – not least through the Social Committee, where our spokesperson Acko Ankarberg Johansson is chairman – for how to ensure that social security does not fall now that the pandemic is going on.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-676	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eklind for his speech, in which he was relatively humble and acknowledged that the rehabilitation chain did not really work as originally intended and that there might be a need for adjustments in the system and in the regulatory framework. I'm asking my question because I'm curious. It's starting to move anyway. I think we have a fairly large and broad consensus that there are problems. We have now investigated health insurance and the process up to health insurance, and we are implementing one of the proposals in Claes Jansson's investigation. I heard in Mr Eklind's speech that the Christian Democrats are in favour of this change, but also that you would like to contribute further views on the change. How do you see the quite many suggestions that have come in Claes Jansson's investigation and in Mandus Frykman's investigation? How do you view the implementation of these proposals? Which of them would you consider moving on with? Now that we are changing at day 180, could one imagine a corresponding change at day 365, for example? Would it be possible to identify an area of the labour market in order to narrow the labour market and make it easier for more people to be granted health insurance and to continue to be rehabilitated instead of being insured?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-679	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats for the questions. One of the issues that we have discussed very much in committee but also in this House is what happens after 180 days. There's a problem. The Social Insurance Agency can say that a person has reached such a level that it can take a job, while the Employment Service says that the work capacity is reduced and that a job cannot be taken. I am not saying that one authority is wrong or that both are wrong, but people are being squeezed. Last spring, the report presented an understandable and safe health insurance with a place for rehabilitation, which contains a series of proposals. One suggestion which, in any case, I took on board and which is also in line with what we have said in our previous motions is that this process must start quickly, so that we can complete rehabilitation within the limits that we have set. Of course, we are discussing what happens after 365 days, but we can also start discussing the 550-day limit, which Mats Berglund did not mention. A number of other proposals are contained in the report together for a well-functioning process of sick leave and rehabilitation. I agree with all the parties here in the Swedish Parliament, I think, that there are problems with the rehabilitation chain that we have. In these interim reports, there are undoubtedly concrete proposals as to what could be done to improve it. I mentioned in my main speech this, among other things, with the coordination efforts, which the National Audit Office has also pointed out. There's a mission here. It's not working. There is also a mission since 1 February this year to the regions – my speaking time is up, so I will have to come back to that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-682	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think that the words in the title of the del report are rather telling, because that is exactly what Claes Jansson is trying to give. Has rehabilitation been started? Are there prospects of returning to work with the same employer? After all, this is the game room that needs to be increased, so that you can be rehabilitated rather than secured by day 180. That is what we are trying to implement from March onwards. But it is linked to what happens at day 365 and the proposals for it in the investigation. You can't just postpone this; we had the precipice before, but now we've moved it forward. I don't know if you can comment on this by day 365, but there were suggestions in the investigation.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-684	Madam President, I would like The debate about the headstock at 365 days, Mats Berglund, you will have to bring your colleagues into the government. You can also say that there is a precipice at 550 days. It is still possible to receive extended sickness benefit up to 550 days, albeit a little lower: at 75 per cent. But there goes the line. I personally believe that there must be a further limit in all systems. Being on sick leave should not be lifelong. I don't think that's good for the individual. But it is also not good for those who have a role to play in rehabilitating these persons. It must be clear that you have this period and that the efforts should be made then. I'd like to finish what I started talking about at the end of my last line. Since 1 February this year, there has been a very good initiative which means that the regions will offer coordination efforts. I hope that you and I, Mats, from our respective parties closely follow how this works, because it can be a way to improve the rehabilitation process.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-687	I would like to say in all humility that we have a parliamentary custom whereby the speaker who makes his speech speaks to the President and thus indirectly to the Members of this House. Simply put, this means that the members of Parliament talk about each other and not to each other. Members speak to the President and tell him what they think on various issues. A Member who speaks of another speaker in a debate, for example by responding to arguments, should use the speaker's name and surname. This means that you or you are not being used in the chamber debates. It was a humble greeting from the Presidents.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-689	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate Category 10 and the committee's report SfU1 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. This debate is about our social security, but I will specifically talk about health insurance. When you are at your weakest, society must be at its strongest. The Government's proposal for the budget for next year is about investing in our welfare and about giving Sweden a powerful restart after the pandemic. It's about meeting the climate threat and changing. It's about equipping people to take new jobs. It's about investing in our welfare. It is about hiring more people in health care, in school and in care. Basically, a budget debate is about clarifying different political choices. Around the world, the world's countries have chosen different models and solutions for how welfare is to be organised. In some models you can choose how extensive insurance you want if you fall ill. You can choose to put aside some extra money to take holiday leave during the summer, pay a little extra so that your children can go to a nicer school and guaranteed an extra fine education or give your mother a place in a slightly nicer retirement home. This perfect model of freedom of choice boils down to limiting those who cannot afford to their choices. Should I prioritize a good school for the kids or spend money on my necessary surgery? We've chosen a different path. Our well-being should include everyone. We contribute together and get as needed. The point of general welfare is that everyone should feel and get freedom, and there should be equality in society. It's where in life you're supposed to decide, not what you've chosen to pay for yourself. The Government's work since 2014 has been about equipping our common welfare and holding Sweden together. It's about more teachers, nurses, nurses, doctors and police, and more preschool teachers, socionomists and nannys. It is about more education for more people, raising pensions and abolishing pensioner tax. The 2021 budget now proposes billions of investments in welfare, investments in the strong society. Madam President, I would like This year has shown us clearly that our security systems are in need of rehabilitation and reinforcement. A few steps in the right direction have been taken. I am thinking, in particular, of the increase in the compensation in the checkout, which gives more people a reasonable chance of coping with a transition and the temporary withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal, which will allow many people to stay at home if they feel symptoms of the pandemic. Temporary derogations and support for people to cope with the Corona crisis have been necessary. But we must also take a holistic approach in the long term to improve health insurance. First, changes are being made to ensure that long-term illness is not covered by Day 180. This improvement shall be in place after the end of the year and shall enter into force in March. In the draft budget we are debating, the government states that it sees a further need to make more changes. It is about increasing the security and legal certainty of decisions and assessments in the rehabilitation chain. There should be better collaboration between different actors in the sick leave process, and we should strengthen sick people's right to rehabilitation interventions. But it is also important to ensure that health insurance covers more people in the Swedish labour market and also those with fixed-term contracts. There are many young people and women who work and pay their taxes and contributions but who, because of precarious employment, are denied the right to protection for which they have paid. These groups must also be given good health insurance. It is very common for many people to contact us MPs with stories about system errors in health insurance. The problems you face drive relatives to financial vulnerability, and you get more stressed and worried by government contacts. The trend we are seeing today with an increasing number of rejections and harsher assessments show that we cannot wait. We have to fix health insurance and give people the security they expect when you're sick. It is not reasonable for many today to be forced into financial vulnerability, because poverty makes no one healthier. Madam President, I would like Over the past few weeks, we have been standing here in several debates and debating health insurance. We have also been able to read in the media how from an increasing number of parties in Parliament, I would say all parties, you start talking about health insurance. Of course we welcome that. I am the first to welcome everyone to that debate. However, as I mentioned at the outset, a budget debate is about putting different options against each other. Dear children have many names: The Moderates, the Christian Democrats or the Swedish Democrats. Few people today see the difference between those parties. But one thing unites you in particular. It is that your policy strikes the most at those who are particularly vulnerable. Should the right-wing conservative bloc have the chance to run this country, it would mean new days of withdrawal in health insurance, lower benefits and tougher conditions for the sick. This would also mean lower student grants and lower unemployment benefits for those who are unemployed. The Health Insurance Alliance left behind is the one we are trying to fix today. More obstacles, tougher limits and tougher demands for sick people will not make more healthy. It's not enough that the thing is wrong. It's also wrong in time. In the midst of a burning crisis, these right-wing proposals are now on the table before us in the budget report that we are going to decide on here. That would mean severe deterioration. This would affect those who work in vulnerable and heavy jobs, often at lower wages and with tougher working conditions. This would particularly affect women who are already on sick leave to a greater extent than men. It would not increase the resilience of the sick, nor would it focus on rehabilitation. Madam President, I would like I am a social democrat because I believe that the strong and common society is a prerequisite for the freedom of all people. I become even more convinced when people get in touch and tell me that sick people are forced back to work, and when I hear testimony that rehabilitation is not working and about the anxiety that a lot of people feel about contact with an authority. Do I receive sickness benefit, or will it be withdrawn? I meet all these people who work in professions that are particularly tough. They have tough working conditions that make it impossible to stick together or to persevere through an entire working life. Then I know we're on the right track. We must focus on ill health and indecent working conditions, and not on the sick and the vulnerable. We're not done, but the direction is fixed. We want to build a welfare society for all. When you are at your weakest, society must be at its strongest. We want to develop welfare. We're going to invest in the climate transition. We will fix the breaks in health insurance, increase people's security and create a stronger society with room for everyone.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-713	Madam President, I would like Member Vepsä stands here and says that the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats is hitting the sick hard. Forgive the choice of words, Madam President, but that is the stupidest thing I have heard in a very long time! Is Vepsä aware of and has read our budget? We are spending 5.3 billion more than the government on Category 10. Mr Vepsä talks about compensation for the withdrawal. We are budgeting for full compensation at Karen's Day, full sick pay from Day One, while the government has a flat-rate allowance that does not give full compensation at all on the first day for many who stay home. The Social Democrats have voted against almost every initiative taken in the Committee on Health Insurance during the pandemic. It is not we who are hitting the sick – it is the Social Democrats and the government right now. Since the Social Democrats took over government power, insurance policies have increased significantly. In 2015, 10 per cent of those who completed their sickness benefit at day 180 did so because of rejection. Of the decisions taken so far in 2020, the figure is 40%. Several reports and investigations indicate that responsibility lies with the government. The government has sent out signals that the primary objective is to reduce the number of sick days, and the government has continued and continued to do so despite countless reports that insurance is causing enormous suffering. People have even killed themselves because of the insurance statements that come so early in the process, already day 180. In our budget, we propose postponing the border from day 180 to day 365. We have even budgeted for it, and we have been doing so for years. The Social Democrats have said no to that. So don't tell me our budget is hitting the sick! No, we protect safe and humane health insurance.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-720	Madam President, I would like Since the change of power in 2014, the government's focus has been on repairing health insurance. The distant parentheses, the so-called precipice, have been removed. We have made reinforcements within the framework of the sickness and activity allowance. There are a number of investigations are currently working to make further improvements in our health insurance systems. It cannot be news to anyone that the Corona crisis struck with full force and all over the world. It affected not only Sweden but also many other countries. The government has introduced changes with full force, such as the withdrawal of the Karen Day, as described by Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats. But that also applies to the removal of medical certificates, which allow people to receive compensation when they are ill. There are also risk group compensations and reimbursements that allow our healthcare to now cope with the enormous pressures that the pandemic is causing on our systems. What is interesting is when the Swedish Democrats describe their huge investment within the framework of the budget, for four fifths of the investment goes to small businesses in the form of reduced employers' contributions. I wonder how it gets sick. I can also ask myself whether it is possible to trust the Swedish Democrats. I have no doubt about Julia Kronlid, who is one of those who has spoken very much in our committee and talked warmly about the possibilities and necessity of improving health insurance. But when it comes down to it, she will negotiate with Moderates and Christian Democrats. At least I ask myself: Is it Julia Kronlid's policy or is it the policy of the Moderates that will govern in this area?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-726	Madam President, I would like There are certain parts that may differ between the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. In such a situation, I hope that we will be able to stand up for the social conscience and be able to give our angles into such a negotiation. But we must also remember that the former far boundary that the Alliance had was 914 days. There must also always be an opportunity to receive sickness benefit for a person who has permanently reduced ability. Then we have looked at our health insurance policy and now consider that the priority is that the individual should receive the right rehabilitation and support during the process and not be threatened with different forms of insurance. My question to Mr Vepsä right now is: are the Social Democrats and the Government prepared to change the directives to the Social Insurance Agency immediately? The goal of reducing sickness rates cannot be superior to the individual's suffering and the possibility of continued health insurance when you need it.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-730	Madam President, I would like From the perspective of the Social Democrats and the Government, it is crystal clear that we want to repair and develop our health insurance. We have heard representatives of government in this House make that very clear. It is no secret that there are investigations ready on the table to repair health insurance and enable more long-term sufferers to be entitled to compensation. Nor is it a secret that we want to change the sickness and activity allowance. There's an investigation that looks into it. It is no secret that we want to pursue labour market and health and safety policies that make rehabilitation possible and enable the unions, employers and the various actors to work together. However, when these proposals come to the House, it is no secret that the Swedish Democrats were the first to vote down, for example, the possibility for safety representatives to have access to the workplaces. On the same theme, I am thinking of another question, Julia Kronlid. For example, when it comes to profits in welfare – which you said you were against in order to overcome the problems we saw with money to go to welfare – a lunch with the business community was enough for you to swing.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-734	Madam President, Mattias Vepsä. I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased to hear that so many parties are behind the need for changes in health insurance in order for more people to be entitled to compensation. That is why I am thinking that there will be a rapid process in the Government Office. It may not have to take so long when so many of us in here tell us to stand behind this and when there is already an investigation and now, as I said, another investigation. I still have to ask Mattias Vepsä a question. When the government as the Social Democrats were included in 2015, the so-called targets for the number of sick days on average per person quadrupled the insurance at day 180, and today there have been further record entries for these figures. The reason it started to be steered in that direction was also that the budget looked like it did. I therefore wonder whether the Social Democrats and Mattias Vepsä are prepared to invest in social security. Or will the biggest post continue, just as for the Swedish Democrats, in this area of expenditure, to be reduced for entrepreneurs? I am thinking of the post office in McDonald's restaurants, which C and L have received. I mean, of course, the extra post – the one that is not an initiative – where the employers' contribution for young people has been reduced even though it will not lead to a single new job.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-738	Madam President, I would like Member Ida Gabrielsson asks a number of questions. Let me begin by commenting on the whole. I would say that the budget is a step in the right direction. This is a restart for Sweden, where SEK 100 billion is invested in reforms. Yes, it is true that some of them go to tax reductions that are temporary. But the vast majority goes to investments in climate change and to increased unemployment for those affected by the pandemic. It is also about investing in an expanded knowledge boost that means that those whom Ida Gabrielsson often defends in these debates, i.e. those who are far from the labour market and do not have an education or are short educated, will be given the right to an educational effort. It is also efforts that will finally enable our welfare to hire more nurses, nurses, doctors, teachers, nannys and preschool teachers. It is a budget that gives a restart for Sweden and that I can certainly, every day of the week, defend and stand up for. As Social Democrats, we always want more. We always want to build on it. I have made a speech here in about eight minutes, and I spent a great deal of that time talking about seeing that big investments are needed to meet a future. This calls for the investments that I have told you about here in both welfare efforts and, of course, the security systems that the unemployment fund or health insurance provide. There are proposals on the table after 2015, which have been discussed here today, ready to be presented to the House and processed by the government. The first step is taken after the turn of the year, and we hope that the change around day 180 will take place by March. I also very much hope for the investigation into the sickness and activity benefits and for the proposals on the sick leave chain to become a reality.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-745	Madam President, I would like What was meant was the reduction in the social security contribution for young people which affects the area of expenditure. Otherwise, you cut the tax by 30 billion, and I would have had to deal with more areas. Now I stuck to this. Over the years, 100 billion have disappeared in tax revenue from social security and have gone straight into the state budget. This has happened in batches, but it has been very clear since the major tax cuts started. Will you continue to give priority to these elements? Will you present the investigation to remove the trial against fake jobs and the border by day 365 after the end of the year? Or will the Liberals, with their 2 – 4 percent support, also be allowed to decide this in your cooperation?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-747	Madam President, I would like The government has clearly stated that it wants to proceed with the proposals contained in Claes Jansson's investigation that would make the health insurance system better so that it works for more people and become more secure, more transparent and understandable. It is also in the budget text that is on the table. It says that we want to move forward with the proposals that are to be implemented. However, there needs to be a majority for this. If you listen to the debate, you hear that an increasing number of parties are talking hotly about improvements in health insurance. The first proposals will be implemented after the end of the year. I very much hope that, even after the end of the year, more parties will continue to pursue this with us and all those who want to make health insurance better for more people.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-749	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask a question to Member of Parliament Mattias Vepsä, but first I have to start by commenting on what was said from the speaker's chair. I hope that, as a basis for her claims, the Member of Parliament has reviewed the Christian Democrats' motion in this area. If he had, he would have had a slightly more nuanced picture than just saying that we think this or that. We want to invest in a lot of things beyond what the government is proposing. For example, we increase sickness and activity benefits by SEK 2 000 per year. The honourable Member said nothing about this. We remove the possibility for a person to recognise his or her residence in his or her former home country as an insurance period for the guarantee. That'll save you 300 million. Instead, we want to invest this money in social mentor support in order to break the exclusion of the people who are in it. We lower the tax on all those who have unemployment benefits, parental benefit and sickness and activity benefits. We completely eliminate the difference in tax between pension and work. So we do a number of different things. What I would like to ask the honourable Member about is covid-19. Can Mattias Vepsä explain why the Social Democrats did not support the committee initiative of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates to make a special temporary exception for those who are long-term ill in covid-19? I would like an answer to that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-753	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Hans Eklind, for the question. It is relatively easy to answer. We see a need to make changes in health insurance so as to remove the current problems with long-term illness with diagnoses not being eligible for sickness benefit on the basis of the Social Insurance Agency's documentation and as the legislation is written. We are putting forward proposals which, in our view, would give a greater chance for those who really need to remain in health insurance to succeed in their rehabilitation. It is also important that you can continue to be on sick leave without the risk of going into a situation where you cannot go back to the labour market and would thus be referred to the subsistence allowance. However, we are always ready to do more. Therefore, my question will be back to Hans Eklind: could the Christian Democrats today give us a clear statement that they are ready to make the changes that are in Claes Jansson's investigation from last spring?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-756	Madam President, I would like I have said on three occasions in this House today that we will certainly participate constructively in this. There are a number of interesting proposals. I sincerely hope that I will live up to this promise. This is going to happen in the near future. Mattias Vepsä does not really answer the question at all. The agreement reached by the government with its cooperation parties – the midnight agreement – does not, of course, cover those who are long-term ill in covid-19. They'll be covered. That's the point. Even Försäkringskassan has clearly stated to us that with current laws and regulations there are very limited possibilities to make exceptions for the group of long-term patients in covid-19. That is why the committee initiative was presented, but the Social Democrats voted against.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-758	Madam President, I would like What we Social Democrats want to do with health insurance is clear. We want to ensure that those who are ill, long-term ill, unable to go to work, unable to live a life that everyone else or who has reductions of a different nature should be entitled to compensation from society. Many parts of the proposal that are on the table would make us deal with the problems that we see, regardless of diagnosis. We think that not only should we get caught up in short-term solutions, but we should see the whole picture and create health insurance that allows people to receive compensation that provides security and opportunities for rehabilitation. It would create a basis for all people to be able to participate fully in society.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-760	Madam President, I would like Sick leave has decreased. That is what I intend to dwell on in my speech. It has been declining for a number of years, and it seems to have stabilised. Of course, that is good news if it had been that people had become healthier. The Government's explanation for this is that neither major regulatory changes nor any changes in the application of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency have been made. The government puts its finger, perhaps involuntarily, on one of the major problems of health insurance, namely the twitchiness of the leadership, even that of the Social Insurance Agency. The government has tightened up. The government's loosened up. The government has changed Directors-General on several occasions. All of this has been on line for a long time. It is really surprising that health insurance works as well as it does anyway. It is perhaps a little paradoxical, but at the same time one must talk about a government that cannot or does not want to get to grips with the issue properly. In fact, health insurance needs to be reformed and it needs to be reformed quite thoroughly. It is clear to me and the Center Party that the rehabilitation chain must be restored. The Center Party and the Left Party are very different here. It is also necessary to ensure early and concerted action and to reinforce the conversion elements of the system. There should be no patchwork, but we in the decision-making assembly need to get together around a long-term sustainable regulatory framework for health insurance. However, I have not heard the government express any desire to do anything radical about this. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the report states that the development of absenteeism is greatly influenced by the measures taken by the Social Insurance Agency in its treatment. After all, the basic thing must be the efforts of the parliament and the government, because otherwise there will be no long-term, understandable and credible conditions for insurance. A change is finally coming after a committee initiative from me and the Center Party. There is now a clarification of the examination of work capacity after 180 days of sick leave. This means that Försäkringskassan can continue to grant sickness benefit if it can be assumed that the person can return to present employment before day 365. This is a long-awaited change that provides the opportunity for those who are on sick leave and have an ongoing rehabilitation to complete it. Now I'm asking you to really listen. This has been interpreted from various quarters as a relaxation of the rehabilitation chain. Let me therefore point out that it is not my will and that of the Center Party. Now that I leave Parliament, others are allowed to continue the important task of keeping track of the fact that the reform does not lead to a more lax assessment. The health insurance is a conversion insurance and should be so. The aim is to provide people with support, help and rehabilitation in order to return to work, not for people to be on sick leave for long periods. It doesn't make any person feel good. The report also points to the importance of the high quality of the Social Insurance Agency's investigations and decisions, which should be self-evident. That is why I have pushed for the government to come up with proposals that a refusal decision should contain information on what work the applicant is considered to be able to take. As we have heard before from the KD, it should be a specified work. This would place greater demands on the investigations and give both the individual and not least Arbetsförmedlingen a better understanding of what work the applicant can take so that Arbetsförmedlingen can also contribute to the applicant actually getting a job. One thing's for sure. We need labour in Sweden and more people who work. Everyone has the right to work, even if it is not full-time. Even if you have a disability, you have the right to work if you can. The sick person should be given the opportunity to return to work with more flexible working hours than is currently possible. 25, 50 or 75 percent does not work for all people, so it needs to be changed, as Hans Eklind also said. My friends! My intention in this has been to clarify the importance of changing health insurance. I support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like Now it's getting a little emotional. I would like to say thank you to Parliament officials, who have always been friendly, helpful and happy and always stood up when I need help. The committee office with Kari Hasselberg at the head has been fantastic during the more than 14 years I have had the privilege to sit on the Social Security Committee and work on the issues that for me have been the most important. I would like to say to my colleagues in the committee that, regardless of party affiliation, we have always had a good tone. My friends! I wish you all Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-775	Madam President, I would like Surely it has not escaped anyone that I am particularly passionate about this issue. You have heard my long speech and all the lines I have taken. You may think that in my line at Solveig Zander I will tell you that the Left Party has a much better rehabilitation chain that is just personalised and that you have to try 20 or 50 percent or that we think the most important thing is that the work environment is good and therefore stopped the closure of the Employment Service that the Center was involved in initiating. But I won't. Instead, I and the Left Party would like to thank you wholeheartedly, Solveig, for the fantastic initiative that you and the Center Party took for this investigation to be carried out. My hope and that of the Left is, of course, that the investigation will come to the conclusion that you can soften up a little from day 365. The Left Party also thinks it is very good that the Center Party is also involved in pushing this about the specified work. Few have been around for as long as you, Solveig. You've been on the committee with both my husband and me. It says something about how important you've been. Thank you for your work!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-781	Madam President, I would like On a question put in this way – and yet not a direct question – I have to say that the rehabilitation chain is very close to my heart. That also applies in the Center Party. The important thing is clarity in the borders of the rehabilitation chain. It was originally thought in the rehabilitation chain, at days 30, 90, 180, 365 and 550, that authorities and employers have responsibility for rehabilitation for the benefit of the sick. That clarity has disappeared in the rehabilitation chain. I really want it to be restored. All of us who are at work have a need to know what guidelines we have to follow. Our employers are obliged to provide them. Our co-workers and society should know how and when we get support and help from society. Clarifying the rehabilitation chain, not softening it, is what I and the Center Party want.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-784	Madam President, I would like The Left Party thinks it is great to have a rehabilitation obligation for society and for the employer. That's great, we think. But it gets a little wrong with the sharp deadlines. In the past, 83 000 people were insured when the far parentheses, the so-called precipice stock, were introduced. The Left cannot see that this is good, but we want a more realistic and human rehabilitation chain based on what people are. You can't squeeze us into the templates. Not least, I myself and the Left Party think that Christine Udding – after stepping in, working during the pandemic and becoming ill – is proving just that today.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-786	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson addresses the problem of the pandemic. I can agree that it does not follow the usual rules or diagnoses. There's one thing about it. At the same time, however, I would like to say to Ida Gabrielsson and the Left Party that if the rehabilitation chain worked properly, that you received help and support earlier during your sick leave process, even when the doctor is on sick leave, or even earlier when the employer sees that you are on sick leave for a week, you would get the extremely important help and support directly. If we followed the rehabilitation chain and what is to be included in the periods, the problems should be considerably smaller. But people aren't a thing, and we react differently. Thank you so much!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-790	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying something that I think everyone in this House can support. Everyone should feel safe in short-term or long-term illness. The sickness insurance scheme should ensure that all people have a reasonable livelihood if they fall ill. Madam President, I would like The sickness insurance shall normally be active and adapted to the sick person. More people will get back to work as quickly as possible – normally. But during this ongoing terrible covid-19-pandemy, Madam President, the limit of what is normal has been moved and moved several times. When should a sick leave require a medical certificate? What are the time limits for sickness insurance? What are the levels of remuneration in our various social security unions? Several issues that we considered only a year ago that we did not need to debate, do not think about, are almost normal today. The risk of transmission is one of the reasons. The sick leave that already exists in the usual daily care period takes an enormous amount of time for Sweden's doctors. It's time that no longer exists. We Liberals believe that measures are needed to improve the working environment in both normality and pandemics, which means strengthening patient safety in both the normal everyday environment and in the extreme. There must be wiser use of resources in difficult times and permanently in the future. The health insurance and the activity allowance are supposed to help, not spoil. It should provide support and guidance through rehabilitation, be a carved path for the individual and a four-way that leads back to a full life, to work and community. Madam President, I would like Many people with disabilities are sentenced from working life even when they go to school. They are counted out and ignored. They're being set aside. Many people go routinely directly from extended schooling to activity compensation. Of course it's not okay. It is a waste of resources, skills and human participation. Prolonged schooling and special education do not mean that you cannot work or that you are less worthy. Those who need extended study or special schooling should receive study funding, not activity compensation. The activity compensation should not be locked into lifelong exclusion or poverty, but should be an opportunity for development and participatory life. The poverty of many in the LSS group has accelerated in recent years, partly because of poorly adapted activity and health benefits with high taxes, and partly because of excessive rents in group housing or the cost of activities. In addition, the State housing supplement is not increased at the same rate as the rents. This is something that we Liberals debate, fight for and push for. We will come back to the question. Madam President, I would like The pandemic is a tremendous strain on all of us – each – and on our common social functions, on our whole world. Everything that we considered to be self-evident elements of our lives has changed. But it not only gives us a wide range of negative effects, but we also see shortcomings, breaks and inaccuracies. Some reports point to disasters. But opportunities also give it. These are opportunities to transform, improve, redo and do the right thing. We Liberals take very seriously what is now clearly under the surface. But it gives us the opportunity to do better, not least in the areas that we are debating at the moment. A long series of temporary efforts have been made during the year to mitigate the effects of the pandemic as far as possible, but it is likely that more will be needed – the extension of what we have already decided on, but also new elements that I am quite sure we will have to return to. We will see if we can come up with a two-digit number of amending budgets again next year. But the need for action is clear. Madam President, I would like Health insurance systems and the different parts of disability policy are communication vessels, but we handle them in drain pipes. If regions skimp on health care, rehabilitation and assistive devices, this can lead to people becoming more vulnerable and less independent than they would otherwise have been. Instead, someone who had been able to work and pay taxes becomes dependent on sickness benefits. Another becomes dependent on more personal assistance. A third cannot be active and care for its health, but needs more health care. Missing investment in people risks leading to higher costs in the long term. It is clearly stated in many regulations that authorities should cooperate so that support for sick people or people with disabilities is optimal and so that no one gets between the chairs. In practice, it is all too clear that authorities instead shovel responsibility between themselves, not least in the wake of the pandemic. And now all levels of society are shoveling everything in every direction: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The pandemic has shown us how fragile parts of our systems are. It has become very clear that contacts with authorities must be manageable, understandable and understandable – even for those who are ill. Authorities can be absolutely crucial to us when we need support, but today people with many government contacts can almost suffer from administrative fatigue. In the footsteps of the pandemic, we see terrible effects of this. Of course, there is a need for documentation and documentation, but the overall goal must be to lift the population and give them opportunities. We have to skimp on the unnecessary, but never on consideration. A portal mission should therefore be included in public authorities' directives which emphasise the objective of supporting and piloting. Finally, Madam President, in the houses where I go in, I shall be of benefit to the suffering. It's from the hippocratic oath. It should apply to the authorities and to us elected representatives as well as to the doctors for whom it was written. I support the proposal.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-810	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Bengt Eliasson, for the commitment to function law issues! That is something that the honourable Member and I share. At the same time, the questions must be asked: if you save the unnecessary and invest in what is necessary, why has the draft budget that Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals put forward with the remaining penalty tax for all sick people? Why, then, does the proposal by Bengt Eliasson not have an increase in the ceiling of the housing supplement, which exists for old-age pensioners? And why has not a clear commitment to the sickness benefit group been included in the draft budget? Is it Bengt Eliasson's view that it is necessary to remove the military tax – the heart issue for the Liberals – of 6 billion? That proposal is still in place this year. For example, it earns Volvo CEO 2 1⁄2 million annually. Is it a more necessary effort than the effort to remove the penalty tax for the country's disability pensioners? It is a venture that benefits those who earn over 61,000 a month. Sick-pensioners have a lot less than that in their wallet. Why are Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals behind such action and proposal?
i-6Bz4jkSEDSnDiwYYEF1NE2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the questions! What it is like to put together a draft budget when you are in a cooperative situation is something that the Left Party is well aware of because it has been in that situation almost ever since heaths. The questions that the Left Party is now asking me through Ida Gabrielsson are therefore bouncing back quite quickly, Madam President, because we have exactly the same reason. In negotiating situations, you get some sleep and give some sleep. I would have liked us to have gone further with the widening tax reduction for the whole collective in the case of both old-age pensioners and those with sickness and activity benefits. That would have been reasonable and perfectly fair. We didn't get there. It is just like for the Left Party with the numerical targets, which Ida Gabrielsson addressed in another replica. They came to 2015, and Ida Gabrielsson's party sat at the negotiating table. We'll be back. That is a promise, Madam President. We will come back, and we will continue to push for it because there must be reasonable levels of sickness and activity compensation as well. It must be reasonable housing allowance, just as for old-age pensioners. We think it's connected. We'll be back.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-817	Madam President, I would like The quantified targets were not something we negotiated in the budget, but those were the things that the government itself put together. What Bengt Eliasson needs to consider is that today people with disabilities are being referred out of the activity compensation and straight to social services. Do you think that's reasonable, Bengt Eliasson? Or are you prepared to approve my initiative for a review of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, which has also pointed out that there are major problems with the functioning rights movement? I see that the Social Democrats here in the Chamber look very happy. What you also have to think about is that if you drop this military tax thing, I think – I'm just guessing – that the Social Democrats might be willing to take this tax instead. It's an insider tip from the Left Party. Take it next time, and you'll see that you get it!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-820	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson highlights a rather broad palette of issues that definitely do not always belong in a budget debate but are nevertheless important issues. If the Left Party wants tips and good ideas – and I know they want that because Ida Gabrielsson has already picked up a series of proposals from our committee and party movements and put forward as committee initiatives in, among others, the Social Security Committee, which I think is a good thing – I just want to point out that when it comes to budgetary cooperation, they are being kept to them, just as the Left Party has been doing in the past for so many years together with the Social Democrats.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-822	Madam President, I would like Member Eliasson spoke here at the end that the goal must be to support and pilot. This is something that sounds very good, but the government with which the Liberals have entered into various agreements instead pushes that the goal should be to reduce the number of sick days. In practice, this objective has become the primary objective of supporting and piloting people who are ill, who are considered sick by doctors and who are not considered to be able to take a job by the Public Employment Service, but who are nevertheless insured. I therefore believe that new directives should be sent to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. If the Liberals' aim is to support and pilot, are the Liberals prepared to press the Social Democratic and environmental party government to amend these directives so that we can get better health insurance? Some legislative proposals are now under way, but the situation is now quite urgent. We see how decisions are suddenly changed for people who go on activity compensation so that they are rejected even though they have previously been granted compensation. I do not see an end in the self-interest of young people going to activity compensation if they can return to work, but then there must first be conditions. If it is now important for the Liberals with a safe health insurance that has the aim of supporting and piloting, are the Liberals prepared to push the government so that we can actually achieve this in practice? That is not how I think it works today.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-825	Madam President, I would like The answer to Julia Kronlid's question is quite simple. For the first time in the history of my party – as far as I know – we have presented a committee motion in the Social Security Committee that is all about Försäkringskassan. Just read it; there it is very clear what we are prioritising and what we are pushing for. This committee motion will continue to be developed. It is a first exercise that will be further developed over the years; I can guarantee that. We have nothing in the January Agreement and, as far as I know, nothing that is stipulated in any government negotiations right now that deals with these elements – certainly not in the January Agreement. Let's get back to that. But what my party and I want and strive for, Madam President, is quite clear in the committee motion that is on the table in Parliament. It is only for the Swedish Democrats to come back and read in it.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-827	Madam President, I would like I will follow the Liberals' policy on health insurance and hope that the Liberals will also be able to press for the government to change the Social Insurance Directives. We have put forward a number of proposals in our committee motions and we have reason to come back to this debate. In his speech, Member Bengt Eliasson mentioned the lack of care and rehabilitation and that this should not affect the individual. Here we put forward a committee initiative to review the temporary regulation that is now in place. People should not have to be insured when they do not have access to health care and rehabilitation because we have a very strained health care. There are shortcomings today; there are countless examples of people who are insured even though they do not have access to care and rehabilitation. However, the Liberals were not prepared to proceed with such an initiative. Do the Liberals think that it is reasonable to be insured when you have not had access to health care and rehabilitation?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-830	Madam President, I would like Julia Kronlid knows quite well how the work here in Parliament is done. There are talks with the government and negotiations in all the parts that need to be done. They are happening all the time, and they are happening not only in the tracks of the pandemic, but hopefully will also be more long-term. It is a mixed cadre which is currently being negotiated and which has already been negotiated. This is happening with the government. Government parties and cooperation parties do not go the way of initiative unless it is completely outside, and even then you come back into a government negotiation and can do things directly. There is a difference, Madam President, between noisy and getting a little done and not sounding so much but getting things done. We get things done.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-833	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long tradition of strong insurance systems that enter the day something happens. When you lose your job, get sick or otherwise lose your income, there should be safety nets to catch you. It is right to expect that; it is the welfare state. But when we see reefs in the safety nets, and when they become clearer, it is not only individuals who fall between the meshes. It is about confidence in both the welfare and the state. We can't risk it; we need to repair the reefs. Health insurance, which we are debating today, is part of the welfare system for economic security. It is financed from the State budget through the sickness insurance contribution, which is part of the employer's contribution, and pays sickness benefit, rehabilitation allowance, sickness benefit and activity benefit. Financial security in the event of illness and disability is a fairly significant part of the state's budget – the costs amount to almost SEK 100 billion for next year. The Coronapendem has hit many and affected us all in different ways, but it has also left a mark on the state's social security system. Perhaps the pandemic has shown above all the importance of having strong systems to lean on when the disaster strikes. Since last spring, the government has acted resolutely through a wide range of amending budgets and temporary measures to reduce the effects of the pandemic. Then the systems that we have built up for a long time have been absolutely necessary. But this has also put pressure, not least on the authority, the Social Insurance Agency, and it will also put pressure on the coming year. The temporary measures taken have proved to be important, and several of them will also be extended after the end of the year. But the hope is that 2021 will be the year when we will come to grips with the pandemic and that then we can gradually start to return to the more normal. Madam President, I would like I began by pointing out the rifts in social security, and I continue there. The entire health insurance system, with the rehabilitation chain introduced by the bourgeois majority in 2008, which the Green Party then voted against, is under severe pressure right now. We take note of numerous testimonies and stories, and we read in investigations and reports that health insurance is not working properly. Too many people are insured or denied sickness benefit even though they are too sick to work. The strict requirements of the time limits in what is called the rehabilitation chain are, in fact – and in many cases – hinder rehabilitation. The harsh demands and the risk of being insured contribute to increased stress and make the return to freshness more difficult. In addition, we see that too few long-term ills are granted sickness and activity benefits. We know about this for a long time. The government has set up several investigations to identify the problems and develop proposals for measures to address the shortcomings. Further investigations are underway. We have a number of ready-made reports that have been referred to. These are proposals relating to the assessment of work capacity and the regulatory framework for this, to a more flexible transition from the stage of testing to the work already being carried out against the whole labour market, to lighten the regulatory framework for people approaching retirement age, to more flexible and personalised rehabilitation rules and to more secure conditions in the growing market for hourly and temporary jobs, such as what we call the gig economy. This is in Claes Jansson's investigation. It is also a question of the agency, Försäkringskassan, need to be better at supporting those who are ill throughout the process from application to rehabilitation and at best return to freshness and work or possibly studies. This applies, in particular, to the supply support group. This is a proposal from Mandus Frykman's investigation. These are long lines of good proposals that could improve health insurance. We need to implement them, but to do so we need support and a majority in the Riksdag. It's been pretty unclear how it is. Nevertheless, I think I hear in the debate that it is beginning to move, so I hope that we can get somewhere with the proposals. And I am pleased that we have a government which nevertheless wants and intends to improve health insurance and which has recently also taken steps to do so. In March of next year, a new basis for assessment and a new requirement for proof will be introduced, mainly for reasons of postponing the examination of normal work at day 180. This will mean that fewer are refused and more are granted continued sickness benefit. However, we need to continue with day 365, that the Social Insurance Agency should indicate what kind of work might be considered but also with the other proposals from the investigations so that they become a reality. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has more suggestions. In the long term, we want a completely different insurance system from that of today's rehabilitation chain. We want to merge sickness and unemployment insurance in one and the same authority that has a more intrusive mission. Assessments must be made more flexible and personalised and based on a holistic approach. The objective should probably be a return to freshness and a higher quality of life rather than to work, although in practice the two objectives usually coincide. We call it the new system that we want to introduce for job security. Madam President, I would like But major reforms take time. Therefore, in the near future, we need to look more closely at how we can, for example, give the doctor greater influence, at least on the shorter sick leave, to introduce more flexible and personalised rehabilitation rules with the aim of improving health and increasing the rate of grant of sickness benefit in order to combat the insecurity of repeated extensions of sickness benefit. And we also need to secure systems for those groups that are not always covered today. This may in part be about students who need a clearer regulatory framework and about self-employed workers but also about cultural workers. I mentioned earlier the gig economy. For many years, in several electoral movements, we have heard bourgeois politicians talk about the need for more simple jobs. Now they are here, the simple jobs, on a broad front. It's about moving or delivering goods, driving out ready-made food, uploading and setting up electric scooters, refueling or charging cars. To a large extent, one might think that these jobs serve a certain purpose. They make life a little easier, at least for those of us who live in the big cities and who may be a little privileged. They enable, I should also say, the sharing economy that we in the Green Party have long wanted to see. They facilitate electrification in mobility, at least in cities. But there is, Madam President, a very dark back here, and that is the bad, often bad, working conditions. These jobs need to be regulated. This applies not least to social security, but also, of course, to a lot of other areas such as work environment, pay and so on. Back to health insurance. The basic problem also needs to be addressed. We need more sustainable working lives and more sustainable lives to reduce the flow of health care and health insurance. We need to live healthier lives. It's about what we eat, how we move, how we work and how we organize our free time. We need to get healthier. And it is largely a matter of tackling the very worrying collective deterioration in mental health, and there is much to do here. Green conversion is not just, as many seem to believe, about protecting the environment, climate and biodiversity. It is also about changing to more sustainable lives. Madam President, I would like I think I am the last to come out of this debate. And this is my last debate for this year, so I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone in committee. Some of you will continue to debate migration. I'd like to wish you a Merry Christmas. Of course, I would also like to join in and follow up on all previous congratulations and thanks to Solveig Zander, who now ends. Your long experience and knowledge and wisdom will be missed in the committee. Thank you very much, Solveig Zander! And Merry Christmas, everyone! I would also like to support the proposal in the report.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-856	Madam President, I would like My thinking is about the environmental party's priorities in the government. It sounds to me that everyone is in favour of better health insurance, that everyone can support the proposals for studies on changes which would nevertheless lead to some improvement. Yet there is only the go-ahead for a small part of the changes. There is still no clear go-ahead for what the Left Party and the Center Party have said, that one should have specified work. And there is no go-ahead for the 365 days limit in sickness benefit to be removed. As far as sickness benefits are concerned, it is more unclear what the go-ahead is for. I wonder, then, whether the Green Party is giving priority only to nature or whether there is some kind of priority for this particular group in your negotiations. Will you push this hard and say that you demand that we put our foot down and carry out the investigation's proposals? Will the Green Party ensure that the government makes progress with the investigation's proposals? And will you and the Green Party demand from the government a temporary relief for all the sick until the proposal comes into force, so that those who are insured now and who have taken part in health care can have their right to sickness benefit?
i-ACH1eDJTyUe7TBsyAcC1nJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ida Gabrielsson, for the question. The government does not set up investigations simply because it is fun to investigate something, it is because it wants to make changes. The investigations have been ongoing for several years and have also been referred to. We are now pronouncing the possibility of getting the proposals through Parliament if there is a consensus and a majority in favour of it among the parties in this House. It hasn't looked like that before. As I said in my speech, there seems to be some openings, it is moving. I believe that awareness of the issues has increased. Of course, our ambition is to get the proposals through. Member Ida Gabrielsson also asked about the sickness allowance. After all, the question of health insurance is not part of the investigations that have been carried out. However, we have set up a new study that will relatively soon come up with its report. We will see what kind of proposals it makes, but it is quite clear that health insurance measures are needed. It is not only a question of increasing the compensation, but also of more people having to be granted sickness benefit in particular, but also activity benefit, so that one does not have to live in continuous uncertainty if the next application is to be granted. I very much hope that we will move forward in that part too.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-861	Madam President, I would like It sounds hopeful that the Green Party cares about people who are in that position. This year is the bottom record of how many people have been granted sick pay since it was introduced. There's a lot to take care of there. Thank you very much, the Green Party, for acting on this matter! Now there is clearly a majority in this House anyway. Then I guess it's only the Liberals left, so I think we'll be able to fix that together. Since this is the last thing I say here, I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas and, above all, thank you to the people who have contributed to this debate and throughout the autumn with their stories about how health insurance and the Social Insurance Fund need to be reformed.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-865	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson wondered if we care about people. Of course the Green Party cares about people. I think that solidarity with all people, not least those who are in the most difficult situation, lies very deep in our ideological roots. As Mrs Ida Gabrielsson says, it is worrying that fewer and fewer people are receiving sickness benefit and that more and more people are being insured. When we ask the Director-General in committee, the answer is that there is an increase in the quality of the assessments that are behind this. That's probably true. We have no reason to reconsider or question this, but it is an alarming response, and that means that we must re-establish the regulatory framework. In this respect, it is not only a matter of government directives, but it is a matter of legislative changes that need to be made. That is my conviction.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-868	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Mr Berglund complained and expressed concern about the increase in the number of recent insurance policies. I'm reacting to that a little bit. It is great that Mrs Berglund is concerned about this, but he represents a government party. Insurance is not a self-playing piano. They don't just happen. It is the Government that has ultimate responsibility for directives and to manage how the Social Insurance Agency should handle these matters. The law hasn't changed since we had another government. Nevertheless, insurance policies have increased sharply during the reign of the Social Democrats. It has become insurance early in the process, already at day 180. It is the government that has the ultimate responsibility for this. What does Mr Mats Berglund intend to do about it right now? I support the legislative proposals that are under way. As early as last autumn, the Swedish Democrats put forward a motion in our committee motion that the government should proceed with the proposals contained in this investigation. But it's possible to change that already. Since there were obviously not so many insurance policies earlier on the years, there had to be not so many insurance policies with the law that exists today. It has increased during the time of the Social Democrats in power, and it is the government that has the ultimate responsibility. It's nothing that just happens by itself.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-872	Madam President, I would like This debate is very interesting, and I think we need to conduct it without preconditions. What is causing us now to see an increase in insurance policies? As I said earlier in the line with Member Ida Gabrielsson, the answer from the Authority is that there is an increase in the quality of the assessments. That is a worrying answer, I must say. There are also other suggestions for answers, such as that we have for a very long time seen some kind of wave movement in how many people apply for sickness benefit and sickness benefit but also how many are granted. There is something in these very large systems that is unstable. We don't really know why, but we need to fix it. This is something that the government saw early in the last parliamentary term, right from the start in 2014, and we then set up these investigations that have now come up with proposals to remedy this in the long term. In the short term, we have implemented some proposals during the Corona crisis to reasonably protect the people at risk now. I think it is safe to hear that the Swedish Democrats and Mrs Julia are behind implementing the proposals of the investigations. I think that is a good message from the Swedish Democrats, and I hope that we will also get that message from other parties so that we can do it.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-876	Madam President, I would like This investigation is very good, and there are many good suggestions there. We have put forward not only what the government is presenting with valid reasons, but also what applies at day 365. We have also made a request to proceed with getting rehabilitation allowance, rehabilitation plan and other things. We will come back to those proposals in the spring. My question is still: if the government early saw and was concerned about the number of insurance policies, why were such clear signals sent to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to reduce the number of sick days? In the past, the government even had a target of nine sick days. It's great that you don't want many people to go to sickness benefit. Neither do I. The problem is that the clear signals, including in terms of activity compensation, have made the assessments perhaps better quality, but have also become stricter in really hard interpreting the law – perhaps more than was done before. There have been consequences.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-879	Madam President, I would like For example, we've read in this study-- what's it called, the Execution Machine? – where the researcher makes the interpretation that the digitised target actually contributed to a tougher assessment. There was no watertight evidence for it; it is based on interviews with employees at Försäkringskassan. The numbered target is gone now, and now there's another goal of keeping the sickness rate down. It is reasonable that we should try to do so, but perhaps it is on the wrong authority. I said in my speech that we need to build much more on prevention. However, as Mrs Julia says, the measures now on the table will probably not be enough. The Green Party has additional measures, and we would prefer to see a completely different system – what we call job security.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-882	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating Category 8 Migration. Madam President, I would like Sweden has had a very high level of immigration for a long time. As a consequence, we see major integration problems that are growing and that are occurring in an increasing number of places in our country. Children of those who immigrated to Sweden usually grow up in our suburbs and not just suburbs in the big cities, as it was in my day when I grew up in Rinkeby and Hässelby. Now you will find a small suburb in almost every small town in Sweden. They grow up in an environment with widespread social vulnerability and with parents who may not learn Swedish or not fully integrate into Swedish society. Maybe you grow up with honorary oppression. You grow up in a home where you don't have contact with the rest of the community. It is not easy to come to a new country and build and start a new life. You're drawn apart between two different cultures. There are no demands in school – a school where teachers conjure their knees and do their utmost but are repeatedly filled with new students who have great needs. Once again, you should teach them Swedish. They can have inadequate education from their home country, because it is not the case that all immigrants who come to Sweden have the same educational background. If we look at the Middle East, we see that those who have attended school in Iran have a better chance of succeeding in the Swedish school than those who may have studied in Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan. The backgrounds look different. We do not have the capacity to receive as many immigrants as we have. Even if we want to, we don't have that ability. What happens is that those who have the greatest protection reasons usually do not come to Sweden, because they can usually not afford to come here. Sometimes in the Swedish debate it sounds like it is very easy to get to Sweden, but it can cost 10 000, 15 000 or 20 000 euros per person to get to here, under inhumane conditions. What we are seeing in migration policy is that there are exceptions after exceptions and pretexts after pretexts. People who do not have asylum reasons first get a no, and then it becomes a well. And when it's getting difficult mediated or because there's been inconsistent political action in this House-- you talk about patching and fixing, which is usually the work of politics itself-- that's a yes. But it will be yes for certain groups. Those who actually conformed to a no and voluntarily returned become losers. There is a reason why we have regulated immigration, that is to say that anyone who has grounds for asylum and grounds for protection should be allowed to stay and that anyone who does not have it should not be allowed to stay. The alternative is free immigration, and the Moderates are not for it. What we are seeing now, Madam President, is that the government is moving forward with a new proposal for a new humanitarian protection base. It is in practice an amnesty not only for those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act, because there are more people who are in Sweden with a temporary residence permit, illegally or for other reasons. Now with the new humanitarian protection base, those who have special reasons should be able to have a new trial and stay in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Sweden has major integration problems, and we must have a breathing space. We are a living example of not being able to accept as many people as many may have wanted. It has been lined with good intentions, but just because you have good intentions does not mean that it will work in practice. That's why we need to have a volume target. We need to get control over how many people come here. We need to get the search pressure down even more. We need to connect languages and requirements for self-sufficiency. There must be incentives to want to integrate into Sweden, because if you choose to come to a new country, obligations are included. Not only must you be able to support yourself, for if you choose to be a parent, you should also be able to support your children as best you can. When my father came to Sweden as a student, the main rule was temporary residence permits. He studied at KTH, and he worked extra at the City Hall, where he learned Swedish as a cleaner. He did not go to Sfi, but it was a Swedish colleague who taught him to read a children's book, which he learned by heart in six months. In this way he was able to move on in his studies. After that he applied for a work permit, and after many years and after many if and but stay in Sweden with a permanent residence permit. It's possible, but if you bring a loved one here, you have a duty to support that person. We now see that the Social Democrats, who lead the government, are making concessions to the Green Party in order not to undergo a government crisis. We Moderates are clear and consistent. We want volume targets. It shall be a temporary residence permit as a general rule and no humanitarian protection basis as proposed by the Government. A no should be a no, and it should be an effective return. It is about maintaining confidence in our migration system, in those who come and may be fleeing from a new conflict or war somewhere in the world for years to come, but also in order for those who have foreign background in Sweden to have the opportunity to become Swedish and not always be questioned. When politics begins with its patching and repairing, it can be very fun or nice to get through a proposal in this House and write a Facebook post and pat yourself on the shoulder, but when you go out in reality you create a distrust among people. Such mistrust exists today. If there is to be confidence in the migration system, Madam President, and it is to be regulated, some will have yes and others no. For this reason, I would like to conclude today's speech by saying that the Moderates' draft budget is a coherent unit. As Parliament in step one, the framework decision, supports the government's framework for the state budget and focuses on budgetary policy, we do not participate in the present decision but refer to our specific opinion.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-897	Madam President, I would like Arin Karapet's speech deals with integration issues, i.e. how to ensure that people can enter Swedish society, which is hugely important for solving the task. I can't help thinking about the result when the Moderates ruled Sweden last time. It was sad. When the Moderates last ruled Sweden, it took on average over eight years before half of the new arrivals had come to work. During our term of office, after we took over, we almost halved that time. So it was almost twice as fast during our term of office for newcomers to enter the labour market compared to when the Moderates ruled. It could be because you failed at the jobs, Arin Karapet, because you did. Unemployment increased. It may also be because you were pursuing a policy that went completely against integration, particularly with regard to the integration of newly arrived women. You introduced a custody allowance, which was mainly used by immigrant women. So you paid immigrant women to be housewives and not go into the labour market. The care allowance was SEK 3 000 per month tax-free. We abolished this as soon as we came to power in 2014, because we saw what it meant, namely that women were kept at home and did not enter the labour market. I know that the proposal is on the table now as well, and my question to Mr Arin is this: if there is a new government with the Moderates and the KD after the election, will you then reintroduce the custody allowance, which is detrimental to integration?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-901	Madam President, I would like It can be seen that Morgan Johansson is an experienced minister. You can take the entire migration debate and move the focus to the custody allowance, but no, as a moderate I am not in favour of the custody allowance. With regard to what will happen in the negotiations if we obtain a majority in Parliament and can form a government in the future, I cannot say that. Madam President, I would like When Morgan Anna was newly Kinberg Minister for Migration, he was down in one of the refugee camps in Syria, and Swedish Radio commented on it this way on 8 May 2015: A relaxation of the Reinfeldt line, Morgan Johansson said to Ekot during a visit to a Syrian refugee camp. ..................................................... Today, the Minister for Migration is pursuing a different policy. Morgan Johansson has proposed that the general rule should be temporary residence permits, which we are in favour of. My question to the Minister for Migration is: how is it that day after day, week after week and year after year the Minister has taken all kinds of positions and then tries to push the Moderates for the custody allowance, as if it were the biggest problem of Swedish integration? The problem, Madam President, is that the Social Democrats are making concessions and trying to bring in a disguised amnesty both for all grown men who lack asylum reasons but are covered by the High School Act and for those who are here in Sweden but for various reasons should not be in Sweden.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-906	Madam President, I would like No, there are no suggestions for any covert amnesties. It is just a free imagination and a way of trying to interpret a proposal we have put forward in a completely wrong way. We will, of course, return to the whole issue of migration later in this debate, but I asked a question about the custody allowance. The answer I got is that the Moderates probably aren't for it, but Arin Karapet couldn't answer what's going to happen next. And I understand that, because every time the Moderates have ruled Sweden, the custody allowance has been introduced. It was done in the 1990s, and it was done – under pressure from the Christian Democrats – during the time of the alliance government. In addition, the question is still on the table, should I say; the KD has proposed not only SEK 3 000 per child, but now it should be SEK 6 000 instead. What I am saying is that it would be a blow to integration, especially by newly arrived women, if this were to be reintroduced. So this question will be answered by Mr Arin several times – I can assure him of that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-909	Madam President, I would like Once again, all integration problems are linked to the custody allowance. Let us look at this government, which is made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party: the Moderates have advanced that municipalities should not be allowed to provide support to undocumented undocumented people who have no grounds for protection, and that is what the government says no to. They say no to compensation for the recipient of financial aid. The Social Democrats say one thing on their website before the elections or when they speak as Social Democrats, but Morgan Johansson is also Minister of Migration, Madam President. Therefore, he also speaks as a minister, and when Morgan Johansson acts as a minister, he makes concessions to the Green Party that leads to increased immigration – something that Sweden does not need and will not cope with.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-911	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved. The number of asylum seekers is now the lowest in 20 years. That statement comes from Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson, who never misses an opportunity to remind us of this. In fact, it is easy to get the impression that the Minister is proud and satisfied with the drop in volumes, precisely because they are consistently used as arguments to show that the Government's strictness on migration issues is producing results. Madam President, I would like I agree that it is to the benefit of the country that the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in 2020. This, in turn, will have an impact on the number of subsequent family migrants, and it will have secondary effects in terms of the severely damaged integration of the country. If we're going to have a chance to start patching up our alienation areas and the cracks in welfare, this is a must. The problem is, however, Madam President, that the reduction is due to a worldwide pandemic in the form of a coronavirus that causes the disease covid-19. It doesn't depend on Morgan Johansson. The fact is that very little – yes, really nothing – has happened in a restrictive direction in the government's migration policy during the year. On the contrary, the government has tabled a watered-down proposal from the Migration Committee which Morgan Johansson also knows will not reduce any volumes. The Minister for Migration expressed quite clearly when the government sent out the proposal for a referral that he is satisfied with the levels Sweden has been at in recent years, i.e. in the order of 20 000 – 25 000 asylum seekers. Please note that this does not include so-called asylum-related immigration, i.e. family members who are allowed to come at the expense of taxpayers. Since then, the government, inspired by Swedish migration policy's crazy cat lady Green Party, has seasoned the proposal with new loosenings, new loopholes and new exceptions. In fact, the government has not taken a single decision to reduce asylum-related immigration to Sweden, but has done exactly the opposite. When the pandemic is over, the door to Sweden is no longer open, but wide open. If the government had bothered to carry out serious impact assessments, it would have been more difficult to escape in the way the Minister of Migration rhetorically does today. But who needs impact assessments? Unfortunately, both the government and the cooperation parties seem to think that way. Madam President, I would like This debate is, of course, about the budget under Category 8. All of what I have just said actually plays a role in what the budgets of the coming years look like, and if there is anything we can establish after this difficult year, it is that the volumes of migration policy can actually be changed. As the Minister for Migration has stated, the volumes are lower than in 20 years, although there is still some way to go to the 1996 level, when fewer than 6 000 applied for asylum here. The volumes of asylum seekers to Sweden are therefore not a natural law, as one might have believed, but something that can be greatly influenced by political decisions – even without Corona. Once we have established this, Madam President, it is really just a matter of determining where the bar should be. The Moderates were sniffing at that revelation earlier in the year, when they talked about volume goals. The Social Democrats countered their benchmark. For my part, we can call it anything as long as it is followed up by real decisions- of action and not just by words. Political decisions can therefore quickly influence volumes. When we have come so far in the logical chain of thought, we can take the next step, which is the budget. With the necessary decisions, i.e. with a Swedish democratic policy, we could quickly see a major impact on asylum-related immigration – partly through implemented laws and regulations, such as the principle of first safe country or strict border controls, and partly through the signal effect that this sends out to the outside world – Sweden is full – choose another country! Don't spend your hard-earned savings on refugee smugglers who attract with Sweden! ..................................................... At the same time, we are carrying out reforms of the whole right of foreigners. We are tightening up the requirements for family immigration – it is not the task of Swedish taxpayers to support your girlfriend. We are tightening up the requirements to get a work permit in Sweden – no more pizza bakers working for a starvation wage. We are tightening up the requirements for becoming a citizen – it should be a dream to be occupied as a Swedish citizen and not something found at the bottom of the cereal package. We are also tackling the shadow society and illegal migration properly through stricter penalties, more controls, extended detention and a united societal front against the shadow society. All of this leads to drastically reduced flows to Sweden, both directly through fewer approvals and indirectly by fewer choosing to come here. Sweden goes from being the world's most blue-eyed country, where we have been naive and have not seen the problems come, to being a country governed by order and where you do your duty before you demand your right. Madam President, I would like This, of course, affects the budget in Category 8, and the changes are also reflected in our draft budget. Next year, the total budget will not be much smaller, partly because it takes time to implement reforms, and partly because the Migration Agency and the courts must have an honest chance to beta off their balances. But we can already see there efforts on other things than what the government wants for us to move from mass immigration to responsibility and control. It is mainly in subsequent years that strict Swedish democratic migration policy has a major economic impact. It is a question of saving billions for Swedish taxpayers, mainly by ending asylum immigration in principle. However, this is much more than that, as you can see when you look at the indirect savings that a strict migration policy brings. Take, for example, the Pension Agency's calculations, which show that an asylum seeker who is granted a residence permit represents a net cost to the pension system of SEK 800 000! If we can reduce asylum-related migration by a few thousand people, it is thus a saving of billions for Swedish taxpayers. Or take the Entrepreneurship Forum's report on self-sufficiency, which shows that it takes on average twelve years for foreigners to become self-sufficient in Sweden. However, the threshold for self-sufficiency has been set so low that in practice it falls below the poverty line. If you look at groups from some typical asylum countries, you can see that the majority is never self-sufficient. And when someone is not self-sufficient, it is understood that you are supported by someone else, that is, the taxpayer. Nor have we raised such issues as criminality, where unfortunately the over-representation is very high among both first and second generation immigrants, or that a majority of all unemployed and a crushing majority of all long-term unemployed are immigrants. Madam President, I would like What is happening in Category 8 has a huge impact on Swedish society, both economically and for our national cohesion. It's all connected. If we could just start by acknowledging this simple fact, we would have won a lot.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-928	Madam President, I would like After this very bombastic speech, I really only have two questions for Jonas Andersson. You talked a lot about immigration costs and increased pension costs. One question is: Is it a problem for the Swedish Democrats that those who have not earned their own pension should receive a pension? The second question is: if it had turned out that we got these people to work faster so that they also earned their own pension, would the Swedish democrats have been in favour of increasing asylum immigration?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-929	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Rikard Larsson! There is an old Turkish proverb, I think, which says, "If my aunt had a mustache, she would be my uncle." It's a little bit the same here. There is nothing to suggest that these should be implemented in reality, as Rikard Larsson presents. There is no indication that asylum immigration would lead to better finances in the pension system. On the contrary, everything today indicates that this is a substantial net cost. Sure, we can say that if my aunt had a mustache and was my uncle and if it could be proven that asylum seekers contributed 800 000 net to the pension system instead of costing the 800 000 net pension system, that would be good immigration. Then it would be a much better immigration than it is today. There is no one from the Swedish Democrats who says that there is no positive migration – absolutely not. There is good migration and there is costly migration. We're going to have more of it that adds, and we're going to have less of it that costs. It's a pretty simple general rule.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-933	Madam President, I would like I think that was a very interesting answer. We talk about them all the time with the greatest needs, about those who are persecuted in their own countries, about those who flee because of the risk of their lives. These are the people we talk about when we grant asylum. It is those who have protection reasons and who, under international conventions, are considered refugees that we want to provide protection when they flee for their lives. Jonas Andersson and the Swedish Democrats say: No, they are not who we think should have the right to come to Sweden. Those who should have the right to come to Sweden are the people who can contribute to their own livelihood. In Sweden Democrats' Sweden you should be able to buy a place, but you should never be allowed to come here because you have protection reasons. You're never supposed to come here because you're being followed. This is very clear evidence of the Swedish democrats' very inhumane refugee policy. Now that we see all the challenges ahead, integration is, of course, one of those challenges.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-936	Madam President, I would like I believe that Rikard Larsson has missed this with alternative costs, priorities and away priorities and that there is a limited budget. In the dream world where Rikard Larsson and the Social Democrats exist, there seems to be a horn of plenty to draw out. One thing can be said about the Swedish Democrats, and that is that we will always put Sweden, Swedish voters, Swedish taxpayers and Swedish citizens first. They're the ones who have chosen us to do this job. It can also be trusted that the Swedish Democrats will always want to see proper impact assessments. We prioritise welfare for those who are part of the Swedish social contract, if Rikard Larsson knows about it. One can also always rely on the Swedish Democrats for a humane refugee policy where we focus on the most vulnerable, i.e. women, children and vulnerable people in the immediate area – not on healthy, adult men who pay refugee smugglers big money to shop for asylum all the way to Sweden, as the Social Democrats do.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-940	Madam President, I would like In the Left Party Budget Movement The way out of the crisis – a plan for equality and green transition, we present extensive efforts on welfare and on a reformed tax system. We want to face the inequality that has grown faster in Sweden than in virtually all other industrialised countries, and we want to create the conditions for success with the green transition. When politics does not take into account the fact that our lives are connected in a society, the rich draw away. Then the welfare risks collapsing and the climate will collapse. But when we do things together, we can strengthen welfare, increase freedom for the vast majority and succeed in the necessary climate change. The pandemic and the crisis in its wake point to the vulnerability of society. Madam President, I would like A functioning general welfare is also crucial in the work for equality, security and gender equality for all of us. It is, even with international dimensions, the most efficient integration engine available. While the right has always believed that the workers are best encouraged to work harder and to make more effort if they are hungry, insecure and serf, we in the labour movement have faced this oppression with a struggle for equal rights to freedom, security and a wage to live on. Now we are increasingly hearing the Social Democrats using exactly the same arguments that the Right has always made. So-called integration should be stimulated with vulnerability and insecurity. Even the most basic thing, to live with your children and the one you love, is to be made conditional. It is a shift from the view of rights for which the labour movement has fought: rights as a tool for removing obstacles to equality and inclusion and rights as tools for also meeting obligations on equal terms. Instead, the vision has become a right-wing dream: rights as a reward for those who, despite all the difficulties, manage to get through locked doors and integrate in the way that pleases the rulers at the moment. Such a shift has consequences not only for those covered by it, Madam President, but for all of us in society. The draft budgets presented by the Left Party in this area of expenditure are about not allowing society and solidarity between people to be torn apart in this way. Madam President, I would like In 1994 one litre of milk cost 4 crowns and 80 cents. When we go to the store today it costs 9 kroner and 25 öre. It's almost twice as much. And so it is with price developments in general in society. Salaries and allowances have been listed and developed. But in one area, Madam President, time has stood still. The daily allowance for asylum seekers has not been increased since 1994. Here, the shadow of the old racist party, New Democracy, still lies over the compensation. They went to elections to lower the daily allowance, and the majority in the Swedish parliament have allowed this joke party to set the level ever since. As early as 1994, the compensation was below the current level of supply aid. Today, the same amount will be sufficient, despite the fact that everything has become more expensive. To be honest, it is very difficult to understand that people are expected to survive everyday life with such low remuneration. The daily allowance is SEK 24 per day for single adults. On non-food accommodation, the daily allowance is SEK 71 per day for single adults and a few small amounts for children. This means that a family of two adults and two children over ten years old with housing allowance and where food is not included in the accommodation will receive SEK 7 510 a month. For a single person with two children over ten with housing allowance where food is not included in the accommodation, this means SEK 5 480 per month. This will cover everything – food, hygiene items, clothing and children's possible leisure activities. It is a very scarce standard of living, Madam President. It is difficult to understand how a family can handle purchases such as winter clothes and shoes or allow children to participate in regular leisure activities with such a budget. The answer is that neither can they. Delmi's 2018 Asylum Seeker's meeting with Sweden describes the poor material standard in which asylum seekers live as the main cause of a lack of health status for asylum seekers. The report also points to the absurdity of people being forced to use these extremely scarce resources both by civil society organisations and by the informal economy, where, for example, they can work in black to get by. Madam President, I would like I am, of course, grateful for the work done by civil society. But it is not reasonable in a welfare society that children's ability to get winter boots or football shoes should be dependent on charity. Nor is it reasonable for groups in our society to be under such economic pressure that they are easy to exploit as a undeclared labour force. In the end, it is a situation that strikes the entire employee collective. That is why we in the Left Party propose that the daily allowance be increased according to the national standard of support. It is a supply aid that we also propose to increase for all who are covered by it. This means that the same family of two adults and two children, as I mentioned in my example, would receive about $15,000, and the single parent with two children would receive $1,200 a month. With the knowledge that poverty involves great costs for both the individual and society, it is a good investment. The fact that a party like New Democracy always wanted to frame society's most vulnerable, especially if they were born outside Svedala, hardly surprises anyone. It's a brown right that we recognize. But the fact that this has been allowed to continue, even with social democratic governments, is, frankly, strange. Poverty and vulnerability must be met by the welfare society, not by charity. And the employee collective should not be divided by the fact that people in deep poverty and vulnerability can be exploited in the labour market. Madam President, I would like We see a similar vulnerability and distortion of power in other areas of migration policy as well. The unaccompanied came to Sweden as a child and sought refuge here, away from war, persecution and oppression. When migration policy was tightened, the Prime Minister promised that children would be excluded, but the promise was broken. The Migration Board changed its practice with the result that the 18th anniversary meant expulsion for many in the group. A judgment of the Migration Court of Appeal stated that a large proportion of those under 18 were actually to be assessed as an alternative need for protection and a residence permit. However, the long processing times allowed many to reach 18 before the asylum decision was taken. Others were recorded in age, either by administrators or by highly criticized medical age assessments. Then the circle was closed. Through this Kafka-like situation, children have been deprived of their right of asylum. The fact that they are now adults does not make this injustice any less serious. There is a political responsibility in this which weighs heavily and which cannot be escaped by constantly repeating various lies about the group that has suffered the injustice. That is why the Left Party has long wanted to see a comprehensive solution with permanent residence permits for the unaccompanied. It would have been the best, easiest and most realistic – both for the children and young people who have been affected by the unreasonable trips I have mentioned and for our society. The fact that new groups are constantly excluded from society's safety net does not make it any better. They become easy targets for exploitation as cheap labour or for being involved in criminal activities. This should also be understood by parties who are constantly talking about shadow society. Unfortunately, it was not as the Left Party had wished. Instead, some young people would be given a new opportunity through the new High School Act. But the law was so poorly constructed that it was obvious that injustice, difficult interpretations, and the risk of exploitation and vulnerability remained. The government was not interested in remedying these shortcomings. Here we are again. The Pandemin makes it difficult for the first hill students, who against all odds have made their way through the upper secondary school law's pretzel hooks and irritants, to find work. While the government and parliament have acted quickly in a wide range of areas to ensure that people are not unduly affected by the consequences of the pandemic, the government has delayed finding solutions for people in the area of migration. Once such proposals were presented, the Center Party chose to turn its back on the young. The young people, Madam President, are part of Sweden, and Sweden is part of them. They've invested in us and we've invested in them. It is high time to realise that their situation needs to be normalized and to replace the patchwork of insecurity they have encountered with long-term and security. In the long run, Madam President, after their education, they are an important part of the generational change that must now take place as the population ages rapidly and, not least, welfare is facing a huge shortage of labour. That is why the Left Party has budgeted for permanent residence permits for these young people. Our investment involves approximately 11,000 people. Based on estimates from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, this would cost 900 million. This would lead in the short term to savings by the Migration Board and the courts and to costs being moved to the expenditure area for the establishment of new arrivals. This is a recognition that we in this House have responsibilities when people get caught, not least when it comes to children and young people. This means redress for those who have been deprived of their right to asylum and a way into society rather than a naive exclusion. The young will not disappear. It is right and realistic to give them a secure future.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-963	Madam President, I would like Before I entered Parliament, I worked with unaccompanied minors for 15 years. I have to say that I am amazed every time I hear the Left Party or the Green Party talking about age assessments and how awfully legal insecure they seem. It's a history audit called good. For those of us who worked in the business, it was obvious that many of the children who came were not children at all. It wasn't about a few, it was about a lot. The more people came, the more adults were penetrating among the children. After all, all the political incentives were begging for it to happen. No age assessments were made. No one's history had to be questioned at all, and whoever did it would be brown painted and hung out. An 18-year-old who lied and said he was 16 had everything to gain from the 18-year-old who was telling the truth, so it was no wonder people lied. It was about better housing, better schooling, access to good man, better economy, a better chance of staying, a better chance of getting your relatives here – without any negative consequences. Everyone knew it: There were many adults who took advantage of a system intended for children. I dared to write my first debate article in 2010 about the importance of medical age assessments from a child's perspective. You have to take the support you can get. I cannot understand the passion of the Left Party, the Green Party and obviously also the Center Party for adult men to be treated as children and to live among children. When medical age assessments were finally introduced came the conclusion, and many finally got the age they had for real. Let me therefore put a counter-question to Mrs Larsen: what is the margin of error and legal certainty in relation to an oral task by a person who has everything to gain by lying?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-968	Madam President, I would like It is not medical age assessments per se that are the problem. The Left sees clearly that there is a need for age assessments in a number of cases, including for children to be able to make their children's rights heard. This is precisely what has been the problem with the group we are discussing: time has passed and, in the meantime, their children's rights have been misappropriated. The problem with the medical age assessments is that there is a very extensive scientific criticism of them based on radiological competence regarding dental and knee X-rays and because Sweden has chosen to use a completely different method than the rest of Europe. It is also important to understand that age assessments have existed before, but that they should then be made from a holistic perspective. What we have seen is that the Migration Board instead began to pick out parts of a single certificate, which makes the result completely hair-traveling. I and the Left Party want there to continue to be an opportunity for age assessments. This is important from the perspective of children's rights. It is also important that adults are considered as such when that is what they are. But this needs to be done with a holistic approach. Certificates should not be separated, and it is important that a pediatrician conducts the overall assessment, including a psychosocial assessment.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-971	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I agree that we should have as good legal certainty as possible and that the assessments should be made as well as possible. I was also surprised when the investigation that looked at the medical age assessments concluded that this method was the best. But you still do not answer the question: What is the margin of error for an oral task? This should be an aid, which reduces the margin of error. There is still a margin of error. You cannot determine someone's date of birth by a medical age assessment, regardless of the method used. But you can make quite clear whether a person is an adult or not. If you're talking about taking care of children's rights, you have to start by deciding whether they're children or not. Otherwise, the problem will be to protect the rights of adults at the expense of children, because these are adults who take resources from children and who live among children. Then we get accommodation where we have prisoon rules and where adults decide over children. We don't want that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-974	Madam President, I would like The difficulty with this is that there is a margin of error of two to three years in both directions for the young people and children concerned. Thus, for young people in the 16-year-olds, there will be a margin of error up to 18 or down to 14. So it is a very large margin of error. Because the legislation is very bad, in this case it matters hugely if I am 18 years old and 1 day old or if I am 17 years old but just about 18. It should not, because the vulnerability of Taliban or IS will be exactly the same. They won't care if you turned 18 yesterday. We need legislation that takes this into account. Nor would it be a major problem to judge this as a whole.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-976	Madam President, I would like I listened to Christina Höja Larsen's speech with great interest. It repeated something that the Left Party always repeats, namely the importance of general welfare and great welfare efforts. That is something I agree with. I myself am a social liberal and a strong supporter of the welfare state. We have some differences of opinion about how it should be designed, but basically I am a warm supporter of the welfare state. It gives people freedom by compensating for unequal conditions, providing opportunities for conversion in difficult situations in life, offering medical care and much more. But there is also something else that you in the Left Party are very clear about in your speeches, I think, namely that you see no contradiction whatsoever between having a very large immigration, especially refugee immigration and family immigration for a very long time when many people are not in work, and having a welfare state. This contradiction is not everywhere in Sweden, but it is found in many areas. We have residential areas in Sweden where the welfare state does not work, where social services are completely on their knees, where the school does not pass its basic mission and so on. Some people choose to take this out on immigrants, which is terrible. It's terrible that this happens. But if we protect the welfare state and protect continuous immigration to Sweden, the Left Party's solutions will not hold up. The Left Party advocates permanent residence permits for all, lack of supply requirements, amnesties for large groups and massive increases in compensation. In combination with your view of the economy and the labour market, this means, in the long run, that it will be very difficult to maintain the welfare state, at least at the levels and with the ambitions we have. Does the Left Party not see this problem at all?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-979	Madam President, I would like The welfare society has a price. It's funded by us together. The Left Party has a very clear picture of how this funding should be done. Fredrik Malm is right that in many ways we sometimes look the same at what the welfare society should look like, but the funding is one of the things that is very different between Fredrik Malm and the Left Party. For example, Fredrik Malm and the Liberals have pushed through a 6 billion reduction in the military tax. Before that, the Liberals were part of the Alliance, which, with one job tax deduction after another, made huge tax cuts that of course had consequences for Swedish welfare. It was Fredrik Malm and the alliance parties that together paved the way for SD to stand and say: Look – who has made these holes in welfare? If you cut taxes by hundreds of billions, it will obviously be visible somewhere. That people have a perfectly justified anger about it I understand very well. The question is who is responsible. Is it the one who came yesterday or is it the alliance government, among other things?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-981	Madam President, I would like Now comes this usual banal rhetoric from the Left Party. My question was sincerely meant. If we have a policy in Sweden where we give permanent residence permits on the first occasion, while other countries around us do not, allows a very large relative immigration without any element of supply requirements, which goes against what all the countries around us do, says to large groups of people who have been rejected but are still staying in the country that we give them amnesties and so on – then this policy together contributes to a massive increase in the influx of asylum seekers to Sweden. This has to be financed. It is financed by people who go to work and pay taxes. I urge Christina Höj Larsen to look out outside Helgeandsholmen, look at a number of residential areas in Sweden and think about the situation there for social services, school and justice. In many of those areas, many of our voters live. These are serious problems we have now.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-984	Madam President, I would like Now it is so that I constantly move in many different areas of Sweden. I live in Norrland and often have my walk in suburbs in Stockholm. I know very well what's happening. What I see is the result of privatisation and segregation. There are free schools where children are always sorted and never allowed to sit in the same classroom as people who come from different backgrounds than themselves. Every day I see the result of huge class divisions. I am absolutely convinced that it is not migration policy measures that cause people to come or not, but quite different things. This is also evident in the impact assessments from the committee in which Fredrik Malm himself was present. It is a question of whether there is already a diaspora, whether Sweden is perceived as a safe and peaceful country and so on. It's completely different things. Welfare is by far the most effective engine of integration, and one must understand that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-987	Madam President, I would like A community should include everyone, not just some. That is a crucial reason why we Christian Democrats are advocating a tight migration policy for a number of years to come. It takes a certain amount of factual resistance to not see that Sweden has for a number of years failed to integrate the people who have come to our country. Welcome here is not good enough. We must also be able to say that welcome home. A majority of Swedes, 54%, want to receive fewer refugees. I do not believe for a single second that this has to do with xenophobia or lack of generosity. The picture I meet is that people express that we cannot take such a responsibility that we are unable to help both the people who come here and the people who are already here in Sweden. Simply put, we must pay tribute to those who already live here in Sweden and pay taxes, so that they can trust that Sweden is there with its welfare society when they need help and support. The large reception that Sweden has had for a long number of years has led to serious integration problems. People who have come here to Sweden with dreams and hopes for a better life have often ended up in unemployment, passivity and exclusion. Shadow societies, gang crime and honorary culture have been able to thrive in some areas, and the community has crumbled there. As politicians, I cannot turn a blind eye to the extreme unemployment of, for example, immigrants from the Middle East. Most of them have a very low level of education, and after 20 years in Sweden only half of them are self-sufficient. The rest have lived and lived on welfare. I cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that we have growing exclusion areas in Sweden and that 5 000 gang-criminal young people who are prepared to use violence put areas in terror. The most important task of Swedish politics over the next 20 years must be to get this right, so that we can integrate for real. I believe that a tight migration policy is essential if we are to make it – to be able to create a community for all. Madam President, I would like A Sweden that holds together needs a Christian Democratic migration policy. It is a migration policy based on order and order, long-termism, humanity and the rule of law. It is a migration policy that counteracts target conflicts and says that a 'no' should be a 'no'. Those who stay here will live up to their responsibilities as well as share our common rights. Our policy also rests on the concern for the needy and the idea of absolute human dignity. The drive to make the world a better place to live, both for myself and for others, I have brought in the Riksdag. The question I keep asking myself when faced with problems is: How can we help the best? In order for us to be able to live up to the principle of giving priority to those with the greatest need for protection and allowing families to stick together, those who are deemed to lack asylum reasons must leave the country. We also need to take strong action to reduce the number of people who put their lives at risk when fleeing the Mediterranean, and we need to take strong action against traffickers. The Christian Democrats have long pushed the very question that temporary and time-limited residence permits should be the main rule. There is a majority in the Swedish Parliament today, and that is a good thing. We want a 'no' to be a 'no', which is why we want to abolish the change of track. This is something that is being used by traffickers and makes it more difficult to expel those who do not have asylum grounds. We need to get a better return. We need to find more detention sites. Pending their existence, we believe that we should be able to use electronic monitoring if we see that there is a risk of deviation. Madam President, I would like If we look out over our country, on the one hand we see overcrowded suburbs where several families are crowded in small apartments. We see parallel societies and alienation with human distress. The fact that there is a link between too much immigration and the social problems we are struggling with is clear. But there is also something we can and must do something about. It is a development that must be broken. Domestic and foreign born should be able to live side by side in security and well-being. On the other hand, if we look out over our common Sweden, we see hundreds of thousands of immigrants going to work every day. They make decisive contributions to health care, and they also have their own companies. The task that we have is for the people who have now arrived in recent years that we have not managed to integrate also to be integrated. It is therefore deeply serious and worrying that the government has recently put forward proposals to increase the number of asylum seekers in various ways. I believe that it risks breaking Sweden's conditions to tackle integration problems. We believe that Swedish migration policy must be designed on the basis of our ability to integrate. The latter is what gives immigrants the chance to become one with our Sweden, to become one together with us and the other Swedish citizens. Madam President, I would like We are not taking part in the decision on this matter as the Christian Democrats' proposal for a framework has already fallen, but we have presented a specific opinion. Now, this week after the fourth debate, it is also time for me to note that this is my last speech in the speaker's chair. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my friends and colleagues on the Social Security Committee for a fantastically interesting year. I think we've done it well. Above all, I would like to express my thanks to the President and to all those who, in various ways, ensure that Parliament's work is so smooth despite the pandemic times that I believe have made great demands on all of us.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1004	Madam President, I would like I heard Hans Eklind talk about integration and the importance of people entering the labour market. I guess Hans Eklind also heard the line shift that I had with Arin Karapet about the custody allowance a while ago. I guess he's happy with that line shift, because there, in practice, Arin Karapet negotiated off the moderate position right from the start. He said that the Moderates are really against this with custody allowance but that we can't say much about the future. It is to be assumed that any M-KD government will reintroduce the custody allowance, just as M-KD governments have done all the time before. Your suggestion is that you want to pay women to be housewives with 6,000 kroner per child. That is, in practice, what the custody allowance means according to the proposal you have put on the table. The last time you introduced it, it was used twice as much by immigrant families as by other families. In practice, this means that you will pay immigrant women to be housewives. My question to Hans Eklind, who has just stood here and talked so warmly about how important it is for people to enter the labour market, is as follows: What effect does Hans Eklind think that this type of contribution would have on integration?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1010	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Morgan Johansson and I don't share the view of the woman. I think she herself is fully competent to make certain decisions. The idea that we're locking up women is not part of me. I am also very keen that we should have a great deal of freedom of choice in family policy. I think that's good. It's not just good for the parents and the kids. Families with children have a unique life puzzle to lay. I am firmly convinced that it increases each family's ability to put their life puzzles into place that it is flexible and there is as much freedom of choice as possible. Of course, there is a big difference in how we view the family. I know that the Social Democrats think this quota is a good thing. We want to remove the quota. It is for the simple reason that we think that parents themselves know best how to distribute parental leave. Nevertheless, I will take the question from the Minister of Justice a little more seriously so that I really answer exactly how I think about this. There are children who have never seen their parents go to work. I want to change that. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister shares that ambition. Childcare allowance as it is now called, not the custody allowance, is intended to create freedom of choice and not to lock up women. That's not the point. As a matter of urgency, we are proposing a series of other measures: Sfi with baby is one such proposal that we are funding. We spend a few hundred million dollars on this. The fact that you have a child should never deprive you of the opportunity to access the keys that we have to equip those who come to Sweden with. It's supposed to be from day one. I do not see the contradiction here; on the contrary, we have a number of other proposals. I'll take it in the next line.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1020	Madam President, I would like This is a spin. If Hans Eklind wants people to move from contributions to work in the labour market, why should he introduce a custody allowance that means exactly the opposite, i.e. paying women to be housewives? That's exactly what he wants to do. I'm saying this is an integration bomb. It is a hugely effective way of keeping women out of the labour market. Equally bad, and perhaps even worse, is that it is also a hugely effective way of keeping their children away from childcare. It is often just those children who would need childcare, to spend time with other children, to meet educators and to learn Swedish from the beginning. With this system of child care allowance, you keep those children away from childcare. It also means that once they get to school, they slip from the beginning. I say that this is a very great threat to all forms of integration and integration in relation to these groups. I mean, it has to be stopped.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1024	Madam President, I would like The child-care allowance shall be based on the fact that the child is one year old until it is three years old. It should count as income, and it should be pensionable. Sfi with baby is a very important thing for the simple reason that we have seen, and today under the Minister's rule, that there are several people who are deprived of the opportunity to take part in language skills, social skills and so on. We also have a job tax deduction for parents, as we call it. We want to introduce more incentives so that it will always pay off from subsidies to jobs. We have a number of proposals. When the Minister talks about integration bomb, I mean that the big integration bomb is here and now. It takes 20 years for half of those coming from the Middle East to come into their own. After 20 years, half are still dependent on subsidies. They have not become self-sufficient. It's the integration bomb, and it's happening during your time as a migration minister.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1029	Madam President, I would like Just as in all the other areas of expenditure that we are now discussing during this year's budget debates, it is not possible to discuss migration without doing so in the light of the pandemic we are going through. The pandemic has different impacts on different policy areas, but it also has effects that are common to all areas. One such effect is the fact that government spending on managing the economic effects on our society is increasing very strongly. This means that all sectors need to review where activities can be carried out more effectively within the existing framework, but it also means clearer priorities in each area of expenditure. The priority given by the government and the cooperation parties to migration policy is above all an investment in stable conditions for the courts to hear and decide matters. It is both a way of reducing uncertainty for individuals and a way of improving the efficiency of the asylum process and reducing the overall costs of the reception system. The pandemic also has, and will probably continue to have, specific effects in the area of migration, both as a result of increased difficulties for refugees to get to Europe and Sweden and in the form of difficulties in getting effective return work for those who are rejected. During the financial year we are now discussing, namely 2021, the temporary law that we have had following the refugee crisis will end in 2015. The ambition of the Social Democrats is to replace it with new, sustainable legislation. Getting new legislation in place by mid-year next year is a priority, and the preparation of this is now under way within the Government Office. For the Social Democrats, this is one of the most important decisions we have to make in the area of migration policy next year, but it is far from the only one. It is often the case that the political discussion quickly comes to asylum seekers and the conditions governing both the handling of protection grounds, the length of residence permits and the right to family reunification. But asylum is not the only area of migration. Among other things, labour migration is also included, and 2021 will also be an important year. During the year, the report will be submitted by the government. We need changes in this area to combat abuse. We have extremely generous rules for labour immigration, which causes some problems that need to be addressed. It is totally unacceptable that wage dumping should be facilitated by the regulatory framework and that people should be used so that, instead of having a secure future, they get stuck in a debt trap without prospects. It was this type of injustice in Sweden that the Social Democracy was founded to combat, and we will always continue to fight them wherever they appear. Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the important work ahead of us on new legislation on the basis of the committee which submitted its final report in September. The Committee, set up about a year and a half ago, had the task of proposing a long-term sustainable migration policy. The final report is now available, it is referred and the referral has been received. But the first thing you can see is that when you get this kind of legislation in place, you need to have it in a functional environment. Therefore, an effective and legally secure process where processing times are short is one of the prerequisites. We now see in the performance report that is also included in the budget how the time for a decision is shorter. That is good, even if there is a bit left before the situation is satisfactory. We also see what is hopefully a trend break when it comes to the duration of stay, and above all the length of stay for those who receive a rejection. It's falling. It is crucial for the credibility of the asylum process that decisions are taken in a legally secure manner, but also that the process does not take too long. It facilitates both the integration of those who have been granted a residence permit and the return of those who are refused. That is why, once again, it is important to make the additions to the courts that are now being made. Another functional environment that Swedish migration policy needs to be in is the EU's way of addressing the issue together and the regulatory framework that governs. In this autumn, the Commission presented a new proposal which has now begun to be debated. I believe, even on the basis of our discussions in the Social Security Committee, that this is not really the proposal that any one of us would have liked to see. However, it is a proposal which may be in a position to go through and which could also allow a more integrated approach to migration policy to be taken at EU level. Although we on the Social Democratic side would have liked to see more redistribution between countries to ease the pressure on those who, like Sweden, have taken a great responsibility, the important thing about the proposal is that we get started and that we get things right in European migration policy. When we went into the process of drawing up a proposal for a new migration policy, we did so on the Social Democratic side with the aim of getting as broad a deal as possible. Unfortunately, we did not land in that, and I am the first to regret it. It is clear that it would have been much better for Sweden if we had landed in a united report, but now we landed in a report which nevertheless captures a great deal of what the discussions between the political parties touched upon. For us Social Democrats, there are a number of points that are important to bear in mind for the future migration policy and which have their starting point in the report. The first point is to protect the right of asylum. Every person has the right to flee and the right to have his or her case tried. Then we can deal with it in different ways at European level. We may have common rules for this, but we can never deny anyone the right to seek refuge from persecution and oppression. The second point that was important to us was to get legislation in place that does not take us back to the situation in 2015. This means that we must have a more even distribution in Europe and that Sweden cannot compensate for the lack of responsibility of other countries. This in turn means that Sweden cannot have a regulatory framework that essentially differs from that of other EU countries. The third point is that we must have a migration policy linked to integration policy. This means, for example, that in the same way as Sweden and a couple of other countries cannot take most of the responsibility, no municipalities can take full responsibility for integration. We all need to help each other. After much talk and threats from previous bourgeois governments on this issue, this was launched only when a Social Democratic minister took office after the 2014 elections, and if my memory does not completely fail me on this issue, it is the same minister who is on the list of speakers later on the agenda here. He was the one who put forward proposals that led us to a joint and several reception in Sweden, where all municipalities are allowed to take part in taking responsibility. The fourth point, and the last one I would like to mention, is that the examination of asylum is always an individual examination. It also means that there must always be legislation where there should be valves that allow for the unforeseen and counteract the obvious inhumane. But it also means that general amnesties are not something to be used, and it also means that generalising and sweeping prejudices should not be allowed to form the basis for assessing people's asylum grounds. We must never forget that it is people, individuals, with different reasons and with different lives that we must always take into account. It is our mission to take these considerations into account with us when we draft legislation on future migration policy. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the Social Security Committee's proposal in the report and, therefore, of the Government's draft budget for Category 8.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1053	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I was pleased to hear the honourable Member talk about labour immigration. However, it raises some questions. When the Temporary Restriction Act was presented, LO was critical because the rules are similar to the rules for labour immigration that, as Rikard Larsson himself says, has opened up for widespread abuse. This abuse is based on the creation of an imbalance of power in the labour market. The employee is completely dependent on the employer and on what it thinks and thinks – otherwise it's just out! I understand that the Social Democrats and the Left Party agree that this imbalance of power is something that needs to be corrected, because it also hits the colleagues standing next to it on the working floor. Yet it is true, Madam President, that the Social Democrats are in principle doing exactly the same thing with regard to the temporary law that they now want permanent. How can you say against sexual harassment or sexual exploitation if the possibility of staying in Sweden or seeing your children again is at stake? How can you require a safe working environment, protective equipment and safe procedures if you know that the employer can kick you at the minimum? How can you demand the salary you have been promised if you know that the employer has the power over your future? It's the same power imbalance. My question is: why do the Social Democrats think that this is not okay when it comes to labour immigration, but that it is perfectly okay to have this imbalance of power with regard to other legislation?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1058	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Left Party reads a lot of its own thoughts into the Social Democratic proposals and into Social Democratic politics. This was one of the issues we discussed in the Migration Committee. It is, of course, the case that we on the part of the Social Democrats never want to open up to this. The fact that it would be us who are opening the door for employers to do what they want with employees is simply not true. What we are doing now is to set up a study in the field of labour immigration, too, to look at how we can prosecute abuse and deal with the rogue employers. Of course, we want workers always to have a strong position in the labour market. Christina Höj Larsen and the Left Party always use all the arguments they can find to completely remove all the requirements in the rules regarding asylum immigration and to say that anyone who makes it to Sweden and says that they want to stay here will receive asylum. That policy is not sustainable.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1061	Madam President, I would like Just as I had this discussion with the Minister for Migration the other day, I can see that there really remains to be a response from the Social Democracy to why this kind of imbalance of power is repeatedly being created. I'm not talking about what the Social Democrats are thinking. I'm talking about reality. We have seen very extensive reports about precisely this – about people who have permits under the temporary law and who are in an extreme situation of dependence on their employers. They do not receive the wages they deserve and are treated as slaves. Why? Because they want to see their family very much. You've created that situation. That's who I see, and I don't understand this. The question of why Social Democracy does this and divides wage earners in this way remains.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1063	Madam President, I would like It is fantastic to discuss with the Left Party. They paint their own picture of reality and then ask questions from that picture. We want to ensure that they are serious employers and serious conditions. We therefore want on-the-spot investigations to look at how widespread the fraud is and how to misapply the rules. We want to address the problems that we see. This is the first time in a very long time that there is a government in Sweden that really wants to address these problems. In addition, we want to ensure that all those who seek protection in Sweden and who receive protection in Sweden can have a good future here. There are certain things that need to be done. You need to get into society, learn the language and get a job for your own livelihood. None of this interests the Left Party and Christina Höj Larsen – they don't care about anything but that everyone who comes here will have the opportunity to stay and that they will get a permanent residence permit. That policy does not hold.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1067	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, I worked with unaccompanied minors for 15 years before entering the Riksdag. I saw every day the practical consequences of the policies pursued by both alliance governments and left-wing governments. One thing that was recurring from the young people I met was that they wanted two things: quick news and straight, clear news. Instead, the political decisions that led to waiting times for several years as well as decisions from the Migration Board that needed to be legal to understand at all. That ambiguity continues to this day. These are not unaccompanied minors, but full - grown men of age. At some point, foreign children also grow up; the honourable Larsson, I am sure, can agree with that. These are men without protection grounds who have been beaten for years by supposedly good forces in a single long expulsion process. However, it should be made clear that this abuse is self-elected – no one was forced to apply for asylum and to stay in the country under the Upper Secondary Education Act, but there has always been a choice to take 30,000 bucks in the fist and return to their home country. Return is, of course, part of regulated immigration. Now the government is attracting new reliefs and pure amnesties as an addition to the Migration Committee. Do the Social Democrats seriously believe that expulsions should not be part of migration policy and that adult men should receive asylum without protection? And how will this affect the budget under Category 8? What is Mr Larsson's quick, straight and clear response to these men and to the Swedish people?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1072	Madam President, I would like The quick and straightforward message is that expulsions are part of politics. It is today, and it will continue to be. If you have received a rejection of your asylum application, you must leave the country in organised forms. What I think is almost tasteless, if Jonas Andersson excuses me, is that we repeatedly hear Jonas Andersson standing in this pulpit and almost making himself a spokesperson for the unaccompanied youth whom he has worked with. He speaks for them as to what they want from migration policy. When I hear Jonas Andersson's speech, I assume that they want a migration policy that does not enable them to apply for asylum in Sweden. I haven't met the very young people Jonas Andersson has worked with, but with an engagement I think Jonas Andersson might cut a little bit on the representation in this matter. We think it is important to get quick information. That is why, as I said in my speech, we are giving money to the courts. It is gratifying that we see that the time from application to decision is falling, because we need a system where we have quick and legally certain decisions. We need a system where a yes means that you get into the country, get integrated and have the opportunity to create a future in Sweden while a no means, however, that you have to leave the country. This is because we also have expulsions. We have not put forward any proposals for amnesties.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1077	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I would say that at least your cooperation parties perceive it that way. I think it is also a matter of pure amnesties. Speaking of being a spokesperson, I am a spokesperson for the Swedish Democrats on this issue. I would really like to follow this up by asking Mr Larsson what he generally thinks about Sweden having a policy that attracts parents to send their children across half the world, with refugee smugglers, on dangerous journeys through safe country after safe country so that they end up in Sweden. Does the honourable Member think that there is a good child perspective here? For most of the unaccompanied people I've met over the years – and once again, I've met a few in 15 years – separation from the parents is the greatest trauma. They were sent off to a foreign country against their will. It would be interesting to hear the honourable Member's opinion on this issue, especially since we know that a large proportion of these children come from conditions that do not mean that they have grounds for protection. These could be Afghans, for example, who have lived in Iran.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1081	Madam President, I would like The grounds for protection are the basis for obtaining a residence permit as a refugee or as a person in need of protection. The honourable Member, Jonas Andersson, also knows that it is not we here in Parliament who sit and decide whether or not people have protection reasons, but it is the authorities who do so on the basis of the conventions that regulate when you have protection reasons. So reasons for protection are the basis, and that is a very good order. When the Swedish Democrats say that other parties also perceive it as an amnesty, perhaps it is better for the honourable Member to ask the other parties how they can perceive it as an amnesty than to ask me the question. I am proud that we have been able to protect a great many people who have fled for their lives. We have rightly made the assessment that if they have had to flee for their lives, they should have refugee status or need for protection. I'm proud of that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1083	Madam President, I would like In October, today almost on the day two months ago, Rikard Larsson received a debate article published in Svenska Dagbladet. I read it with great interest and got caught up in what Rikard Larsson wrote. He wrote as follows: We Social Democrats will do what is necessary to ensure that Sweden gets permanent and tight legislation. That is a statement that I would be happy to endorse. That is an ambition that I share. But somewhere that statement has not aged very well, to put it cautiously. The reason why I say this is that since the Member of Parliament got the article published in Svenska Dagbladet, the government in which the Member of Parliament's party is involved has put forward two proposals that both aimed at allowing more people to stay, first the proposal for a new change of regulation and now the widening of the humanitarian protection base. After all, I and the Member of Parliament sat on the Migration Committee together, and that basis of protection is much broader than the one we discussed in the committee and wider than that endorsed by the Social Democrats in August. It is therefore a group aimed at those who lack asylum reasons but who have been allowed to stay for upper secondary school studies. In addition, there will now be another piece of legislation to ensure that they remain. My question is: in what way can it be said that it is tight not even to be able to allow asylum legislation to decide whether or not someone should stay? It is now being undermined by another decision.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1087	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Hans Eklind. We met a number of days this summer and discussed these issues. I think that Mr Eklind remembers that one of the issues that we then touched upon in our more internal discussions, if I may put it that way, was whether, when you make temporary residence permits as a general rule, you also need some form of more remote border, that is, in cases where it is totally unreasonable to continue with temporary residence permits without a permanent residence permit. In the discussions that we had, if I may now review and discuss them, we arrived together in the fact that it is probably not wise to have the far limit but that we should probably continue with time-limited permits. But once we landed in this and then put forward a proposal that meant that temporary residence permits should be the general rule, it does not mean that the government, which is to write a bill, remains with the question. What happens to those who have been here for a long period and have a very strong establishment in Sweden? Is the legislation proposed for the humanitarian basis sufficient? In this case, the government has made the assessment that there are a number of cases that would fall between the seats of such legislation and that it would be totally unreasonable to expel after such a long time. There are examples of family immigration, such as leaving a marriage where there has been violence. Should the residence permit continue to apply when you no longer depend on the affiliated person? I would say that there is reason to make further proposals. On the other hand, there is no reason to draw the conclusions that the honourable Member makes for a significant increase in immigration.
i-2doFFfQ7DtoqRhS39MqENL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson, for your answer! It is clear that the honourable Member does not see any major consequences. On the other hand, you have, of course, the Center Party and the Green Party, which have a completely different view. This is something that they claim will lead to more people getting asylum in Sweden and being allowed to stay. With the new extended base of protection, it will ensure that people who would otherwise leave Sweden will now be allowed to stay. Of course you disagree, and we've heard that before. Only last Sunday evening, however, the Director-General on TV said that the new regulatory framework greatly broadens the rules for those who can obtain asylum. Then you send a signal. I would therefore like to take Rikard Larsson a little at the word. How can you say that it is a tight and permanent legislation that you want, when you send a signal that in Sweden you can sooner or later always stay.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1093	Madam President, I would like I don't think we're sending that signal. I also heard the interview with the Director-General and noted that he said he did not want to comment on the issue because they were just preparing it. Then he still made some speculations. I think it is a good thing that we wait for the Migration Agency to analyse the issue before we draw conclusions about what the Migration Agency formally thinks about the issue. I can't answer for what the Centers and Liberals think. Maybe they'll talk about it here later. But for us social democrats, the humanitarian basis of protection, which we are discussing, is still a valve. You can look at figures on what similar humanitarian grounds have meant in granted residence permits in the past, and there has been no radical increase in the number that has been allowed to stay in Sweden.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1096	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Around the world, people flee from war and oppression. Each individual case is a personal tragedy. The Center Party is proud that Sweden has for many years taken a great responsibility to give people on the run security. In recent years, temporary laws have replaced each other. People are being squeezed, and, as the Center Party has long pointed out, the need for a more long-term and sustainable migration policy has become increasingly clear. The Center Party has long worked purposefully and constructively to put in place permanent legislation that should be humane, legally secure and sustainable in the long term. It is regrettable, as many before me have pointed out, that the Migration Committee failed to reach a broad agreement. It would have been good for Sweden but above all for people on the run looking for security in our country. The final report of the Migration Committee is not the perfect way forward and lacks some important elements, such as qualification into welfare. There are parts of the report that are less good, while there are parts that are good and some that are really good, such as getting migration legislation that is more in line with that of other European countries and enabling children to be reunited with their parents through family reunification. An important part of the new permanent legislation is a broader humanitarian basis, which the Center Party has fought for throughout its work. It would be an opportunity for those with the most distressing reasons to stay in Sweden. Such a residence permit basis would provide more long-term conditions for those who have had a residence permit, have been careful and have a strong connection with the country to stay. It would also apply to young people who have been in Sweden with the support of the Upper Secondary Education Act and who meet the requirements. This is not a solution for everyone, but it is a solution for those who have a strong connection to Sweden. Such a humanitarian basis is extremely important and crucial for the Center Party in its work forward. Another important element of a long-term migration policy is effective and effective reception of asylum. Sweden can get better there. Within the framework of the January Agreement, the Center Party has therefore pushed for an increased social introduction. Anyone who comes to Sweden and seeks asylum should know our laws and regulations and how our society works. This is important both for those who come here and stay here permanently and for those who live in Sweden for a shorter time and will have to return to their home country. That is why we are proud that, within the framework of budgetary cooperation, we are enabling this very thing to happen. Madam President, I would like I would also like to talk, like some others, about the very important bourgeois liberal reform that the Alliance has jointly made possible and which is crucial for our competitiveness and our businesses, namely labour migration. Let me be clear at the outset that fraud and organised crime do not belong in any part of society, nor in labour immigration. It is a problem that we take seriously and that needs to be addressed. It is therefore a good thing that we have an investigation under the January agreement looking at this very point. However, this must not lead to watering down the whole system. The fact that the Social Democrats and the Left Party want this is not news, but to see other bourgeois parties make a turn on the issue of labour immigration is very tragic. Many Swedish companies and industries, such as the forest industry and the IT industry, are completely dependent on labour and skills from other countries. This contributes to Swedish competitiveness, to the development of companies but also to Swedish society through increased tax revenues that can be used, for example, for schools, health care and care throughout the country. In January, the Labour Immigration Report will present an interim report on how we can solve the problem of harmful skills demonstrations and how we can introduce a so-called talent visa. Swedish companies need labour migration, Sweden needs labour migration. Instead of breaking up the system, let us fix it, develop it, while at the same time once and for all taking a strong stance against cheating and against organised crime, for competitiveness and for the ability of our companies to develop. Madam President, I would like The issue of migration is a real issue. It is a question of people's destiny. Next year will be, to say the least, a shaping year for the future of Swedish migration policy. We have a unique opportunity to get permanent and humane migration legislation in place. It is about time that Sweden finally got exactly this: a permanent and humane migration legislation.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1112	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonny Cato, for your speech. I'm not going to talk about labour immigration. There we are very far from each other. I am very curious about how the Center Party views this new humanitarian protection base. When, last week, you said no to making changes to the Temporary Restrictions Act and therefore turned your back on young people, you said above all that it was a matter of concern that some young people, whose condition now expires, would not be covered by this legislation. When I look at the humanitarian protection base and when I listen and try to read a little bit in coffee grounds along what the Minister for Migration says, I think it will be about people who have a state of the essence. The young people whose condition is now, this week, last week and just after Christmas, will reasonably be without authorisation and therefore not covered by the new humanitarian protection base. It doesn't really make sense to me. I would like Jonny Cato to describe to us how he views this particular problem. Is it not the case that this group continues to fall outside? Does the honourable Member really think that this will be legislation that will affect precisely those high school young people who have done their best to meet the requirements that exist?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1116	Madam President, I would like There are many reasons why the Center Party chose to land as we did, and we also debated those reasons in this House last week. The legislative proposals announced by the government have still not seen the light of day. They're not even referred. We don't even know if they will be. It is the government that must answer the question why we do not include those who have completed the studies most quickly and who may have been most affected by the pandemic in the autumn. The Center Party has not said that we support the government's humanitarian base. The Center Party has presented how we want to see the humanitarian basis. I hope that the government will land in a humanitarian basis that is good and that can help young people who have struggled and worked hard to get into Swedish society and who have a very strong connection to our country.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1120	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, which also becomes a bit like fortunetelling in coffee grounds. I note that the Center Party rejected legislation because it felt that not everyone would be covered. They said that they want to invest everything in humanitarian protection. The way I see it, and from what I hear from the government, this will not cover it either, and then the Center Party has not got it in bag or bag, if we say so. After all, we have not even managed to make the important changes that we had the opportunity to make last week.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1123	Madam President, I would like As I said, we had this debate last week, and an important part that I pointed out at the time was that the Center Party said that now we need to stop patching and repairing the temporary legislation and get permanent migration legislation. This is it. Once again, the government, and perhaps above all Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson, must answer the questions about how he sees his humanitarian basis. It's very hard for me to do that. I can only present what the Center Party wants to see, and we did so only a few days ago.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1126	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has really given the wind flute a face. It is always as exciting to see in which direction Member Cato will end up under the umbrella of sustainable migration policy this day. They talk about responsibility, and then they land in amnesties. It will have to end the patching and repairing, says Mr Cato, in order to patch and fix in the next breath. 9,000 adult children have cost us 5 billion in just a few years. Now the Center Party wants to give the same opportunity to tens of thousands of foreigners. I think that this requires some answers. How much will this cost? That's twice as much as 10 billion? Or maybe 20 billion? We know that there are millions of people on the run – in the broadest sense of the word, of course; many are also economic migrants. Where does the Center really draw the limit for what volumes we can receive? Is there a limit at all? Is it the 30 million new inhabitants that Annie Lööf mentioned a few years ago that still apply to the Center? How are you supposed to finance this? How much does the Center Party want to take from Swedish welfare to fund this? Is it the health care or perhaps the poor pensioners who will pay? Or does Jonny Cato perhaps want to raise taxes for Swedish workers and companies to pay for protection for people without protection?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1132	Madam President, I would like This is classical Swedish-democratic migration policy rhetoric, which pits groups against each other, as the honourable Member just did. It is said that we do not have the same interpretation of what is a long-term sustainable migration policy. I'm pretty grateful and happy for that, because there's a lot of difference. Examples include the fact that 30 million people are going to immigrate, something that we have heard the Swedish Democrats talk about a lot over the years. The Swedish Democrats and Jonas Andersson know that the Center Party wants regulated immigration in Sweden where a no should mean a no and where people who have protection reasons should have these tried and allowed to stay.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1135	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Cato for his reply. Setting groups against groups and setting priorities and away priorities is something that every politician must do. We know that. There must be priorities and away priorities, because we have no voluptuous horn to pour out. Perhaps this is a lesson that would be good to do for the Center Party as well. I only have one quick question about labour immigration. It is said that it is a big win for Sweden, and Jonny Cato was very proud of it. But up to half of labour migration is about low-skilled jobs, despite the fact that Sweden is one of the world's most advanced economies and that hundreds of thousands of foreign born in Sweden are out of work today. Currently, pizza bakers, taxi drivers and waitresses are the deficiency professions in the Migration Agency's list, not computer engineers or excellence. This has some displacement effects on the Swedish labour market. Is that really what the Center Party's migration policy should be like when it comes to labour migration?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1139	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for the question. I think it is relevant, and not least I think it is clear in the footsteps of the pandemic, with entry bans and other things, that labour immigration is important for many people. I only met in our forest industry, which is completely dependent on foreign labour to cope with the activities carried out. Sweden needs labour migration, and Swedish companies need labour migration. However, I do not think it is reasonable for Swedish politicians to say which industries they are allowed to work in and not. It must be the needs of companies that govern, not what the Swedish Democrats or other parties think.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1141	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to ask for a reply, but then the MP Cato started talking about AKI, i.e. labour migration, and that bourgeois parties have cowed. Sweden is the only country in the Western world that does not distinguish between low-skilled and highly skilled labour. Nor do we care whether there is a shortage of labour in a profession or not. We Christian Democrats believe that this should be addressed. Migration researcher Magnus Emilsson stated a couple of years ago that the Swedish design of labour immigration conflicts – exactly as he writes – with the knowledge that exists about what a successful model should look like. Today we have large-scale labour migration, but low-skilled labour. It is people who take jobs where we have our own work force, but unemployed, people who could instead take the jobs. We should not import labour from the other side of the world when we have our own workforce in place that is unemployed. We believe that labour migration must be adjusted. My counter-question is: Does the honourable Member not see that the labour migration we have had now for a number of years is quite different from what it was supposed to be from the beginning?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1146	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, pleased to hear that the Christian Democrats think it is important to have a highly qualified workforce. There we agree with the government to introduce a visa for those who are trained and who want to come here to work or start a business. I hope this is a proposal that the Christian Democrats can support. I have a counter-question to Member Hans Eklind: Do the Christian Democrats think that the Swedish Employment Service and the Migration Agency are better at assessing which labour force Swedish companies need than what the companies themselves are?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1148	Madam President, I would like We do not believe that it is Swedish companies alone that should make that assessment. That is the short and clear answer. So we must be able to test whether it is a deficiency profession. If the salary offered is less than SEK 35 000, it must be examined whether it is a deficiency occupation or not. We know that the labour immigration that exists today is being abused. It has come to be a way of circumventing our asylum legislation. Jonny Cato is talking about a turnaround, but perhaps the Member of Parliament is not the right sender. On 17 April, the Center and Jonny Cato agreed to changes for those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act. On 30 November, the Centre Party rejected changes for those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act. On 10 December, the Center agreed to changes for those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1149	Madam President, I would like There is quite a difference when it comes to what the Center Party said, so I can actually correct Hans Eklind. The Center Party has never said that we do not want to make changes for the group of young unaccompanied minors, but what we said was that we do not want to make changes to the High School Act. There's a pretty big difference. I would also like to be clear about – I think I have been in this House earlier this evening too – that the Center Party also thinks that we should combat fraud, crime and irregularities that exist in today's system of labour immigration. That is why, together with the government, we broadened the directives for the study on labour immigration – it is stated in the January agreement – because it is a problem that must disappear and that we must fight together. But this is to be done while safeguarding the very important bourgeois, liberal reform of labour immigration.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1151	Madam President, I would like I believe that it is impossible to cope with the major challenge we face in the area of migration without deepening European cooperation. I note that no speaker has mentioned Schengen so far in the debate, at least not what I have been able to hear. It is a fact that we partly have a common regulatory framework in Europe, that we have free movement within large parts of the European Union and that we have a very large disintegration in our neighbourhood, no matter which direction we are looking at – not the Atlantic and not north either, but the other directions. East, south and in the Middle East region there is widespread disintegration. The combination of this means, on the one hand, that we have very large flows of refugees into Europe and, on the other hand, that what is happening in southern Europe also affects us in Sweden. In fact, we are both part of the responsibility for the situation and part of the solution to it. There are no isolated islands like that in Europe today. The most important issue is to bring about a workable, long-term sustainable regulatory framework at European level, and at Swedish level of course. But we cannot decouple our migration policy from what is happening at European level. How do you solve it? It is a difficult issue, given that there are so different views between the Member States in Europe, but in the end we must achieve something. Now the European Commission and the German Presidency are struggling to try to thresh through an asylum package. It has been going back and forth for a number of years. It is a question of border procedures and what the situation should be at the European Union's external border. And it is a question of being able to get a quick return for those who lack asylum reasons, which unfortunately is very many of those seeking asylum. At the same time, this must be done in such a way that the people who actually have asylum grounds are tried. It is a rather delicate task for the countries of the European Union, including Sweden, to be able to do this. In the longer term, it is crucial that we achieve stability in our environment. It is very difficult to achieve stability in countries that are in disintegration, in countries that have never seen democracy, in countries that are governed by heavy-handed dictatorships and, of course, in countries that have been characterised by wars and conflicts for decades. However, this arduous walk will ultimately mean that Europe needs to take greater responsibility for its neighbourhood in the form of broad agreements on development, investment and so on. I am a little worried that the European Union is focusing far too much on the readmission part of the dialogue and relations with third countries, for the reason that the countries will not be very keen to sign the agreements if that is the only thing they offer them. Instead, we must see that our continent – which is very rich, dynamic, growth-oriented and so on – will have to contribute more, and that will require deeper European cooperation. I think you're naive if you think something else. If we also look at the influx of refugees and humanitarian aid to them, we can see that the aid is disappearing weak. The year is almost over, but the UN appeal to help the Syrian refugees is only up to 35% – even though we are almost there on Christmas Eve. The appeal to the refugees in Venezuela, which is the second largest refugee disaster in the world right now and which has enormous consequences for Venezuela's South American neighbours, is 46 percent. The appeal for South Sudan is only 10 percent fulfilled, even though the year is coming to an end. The appeal for the Democratic Republic of Congo is only up to 7%, which is a little disappearing. The same applies to the Horn of Africa and Yemen – 34%, i.e. about one third of the need. As long as countries are not prepared to finance humanitarian international aid to refugees, there is clearly a risk of triggering further flows of refugees and so on. As a democratic, rich, free and prosperous country with functioning institutions, Sweden has a responsibility to stand up for people fleeing oppression and war. We have also taken a great deal of responsibility. If we look per person, we have taken a much greater responsibility than the vast majority of countries around us – than all the countries around us, I would actually say. And we're gonna keep running. We have a very ambitious quota refugee reception, and we have legislation that allows convention refugees and persons in need to converge rather than make a big distinction between these groups. However, we must also see that our reception will need to change some in the future. Like all countries, we have a welfare state to fund and integration to deal with. We have a situation in our country that means that a significant increase in the reception of asylum seekers and family immigrants to Sweden is at risk of causing many residential areas to have very difficult to keep their noses above water level. We see an increase in overcrowding and enormous difficulties for social services, schools, police and so on to cope with this. I am convinced that Sweden has the capacity to deal with the challenges we are facing, but we must understand that there is a contradiction between, on the one hand, having a very comprehensive reception, a lack of integration and a fairly highly regulated labour market and, on the other hand, perhaps having the world's most ambitious welfare state. How do we solve that, Madam President? Yes, we are getting a broad agreement on migration policy, as we have been trying to do for a year in the Migration Policy Committee. On the Liberal side, we broadly agreed with the proposal in the report, but we have two reservations, one of which concerns a specific legislative point relating to the supply requirements of family migration. Otherwise, we are completely in line, as they say, with the report's proposal. Then, of course, there are issues that are not dealt with in the report and where we have opinions. The Social Democrats have no reservation at all, and some parties in here have quite few reservations. There should be conditions for parties in this House to agree on a broad, long-term sustainable migration policy for Sweden – not only for the sake of politics and confidence in Parliament, but above all for those people who seek asylum and need to know what applies, as well as for our ability to be a long-term immigration-friendly country. Finally, Madam President, if we fail to achieve a long-term sustainable migration policy and fail to cope with exclusion in many areas of Sweden, I believe that this will further weaken the confidence of the people that we should have a generous and humane immigration policy. It will drive policy in a more polarising direction. It is becoming more conflict-filled, and there is increasing xenophobia and racism in response to the fact that policies are unable to cope with these challenges. That is why this is an extremely important issue for Sweden – and it is an important issue for the European Union as a whole.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1166	Madam President, I would like The right to seek asylum is a fundamental human right. If one day you are forced to flee for your life, the countries of the world have promised each other that you will have the opportunity to seek refuge. The Green Party will defend the right of asylum against any attempt to reduce or restrict it. When the Moderates last summer pointed out the Green Party as the green elephant in the room because we stopped an agreement on the Moderates' volume target, we were proud. We wish that a ceiling could be set for suffering and war, but we are not prepared to put a ceiling on solidarity and humanity. Like the majority of Sweden's population, the Green Party stands for a humane refugee policy where children can grow up with their parents. That is why we fought hard to get through an increased right to family reunification when we negotiated the January agreement. The Green Party stands up for a humane refugee policy where the sick are not deported to places where they cannot receive treatment. I am therefore proud that the government recently presented a proposal for a stronger humanitarian protection base for children, a new humanitarian protection base for adults and, furthermore, a better possibility of family reunification for both quota refugees and all those who, for various reasons, have not been able to live together with the person they love before flight. The Green Party is also fighting for the young people who came to Sweden as a child and are now part of our society. It is young people who would have been allowed to stay if everything had been as usual but had been affected by illegally long processing times, legal uncertainty of age and now the coronapandemine. Just as we have made reliefs for many groups in society that have been affected by the pandemic, we should do so for these young people too. The Green Party is strongly critical of many of the proposals from the Migration Committee. Having said that, we can clearly see that proposals that have been called extremes when we have brought them forward are now being presented by the courts, authorities, the Red Cross, Amnesty and the Church of Sweden. More parties should take on board the criticism that is now being levelled at the proposal of the Migration Committee. The new humanitarian basis for adults who have a connection to Sweden was absolutely necessary to solve some of the problems with the Migration Committee's proposals and not cause unreasonable and inhumane results. One example is that without the humanitarian basis, 15-year-olds who come to Sweden with a persecuted parent risk being expelled on the 18th anniversary. An inhumane refugee policy that leads to unreasonable results for people will never be sustainable in the long term. The demands for changes will be as tight as the reports on how vulnerable people are being squeezed. Madam President, I would like People who have moved to Sweden for protection here must be given the best opportunity to establish a life here and become part of Sweden. A humane migration policy is about standing up for the right of asylum but also about giving those who have come here an opportunity to establish themselves. We are concerned that so many who advocate reduced reception of refugees distort the debate on establishment with very poorly substantiated arguments. If you say that the right to asylum should be conditional on how well our society manages to integrate people, you end up completely wrong. It will then be quite clear that what you want to get at is not really good integration, but the aim is to reduce immigration in itself. If we weaken the possibility of integration through a problematic migration policy, everything will be completely reversed. The Green Party is asking for a factual discussion on what efforts effectively lead to an independent life for those who have been granted protection from war and persecution and how we make them part of our common welfare building. As we see it, it is a matter of fast and legally secure handling and of early contacts with Swedish society, where the Swedish language is central. That is why we have been pushing for a long time to give the Migration Agency and the Migration Courts sufficient resources to handle the processing and to give asylum seekers the opportunity to learn the language from day one and have access to the labour market. An incredibly central part of this is that residence permits are something you can trust. Knowing what applies is fundamental when you are going to establish a new life here in Sweden. Another crucial factor for integration is the possibility of bringing the family together. Concern about their own future, as well as concern about a family that exists in a refugee camp or in a war situation, is a very bad prerequisite for focusing on education, on finding out about the labour market or on getting a business started and being able to make a living. Combating family reunification is therefore not only cynical but also a bad way of laying the foundations for good establishment and integration. In addition, we know that children who come to Sweden early have much better opportunities to get through school with sufficient results. That is another reason not to work to ensure that family reunification takes place late in the lives of children, but rather early. Madam President, I would like For good integration, we must also work hard on areas that are outside the migration policy itself. It is about the need for the establishment programme, the school, adult education, the SFI, housing policy and labour market policy to work together. Asylum seekers are not a homogeneous group. Therefore, we believe that the state needs to take greater responsibility for a more personalised establishment process. A special focus should be placed on the way to self-sufficiency for newly arrived women. In order to improve integration, we also need to increase social mobility in society. It is about adult education, reduced school segregation and better opportunities to enter the housing market and get a permanent home in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has never hymned that the reception of refugees presents challenges in terms of introduction to the labour market, housing and good schooling. We also have clear proposals to improve this process. We believe that Sweden has the capacity to both protect the right to asylum and conduct a humane migration policy and an effective establishment policy.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1183	Madam President, I would like I find it a little unfortunate that the humanist argument has been kidnapped by the Green Party. Resources are limited. The alternative for private individuals is for example the Lyxtrap or perhaps debt adjustment. This does not exist for the state. This means that priorities and away priorities are needed. Everything comes with an alternative cost. The environmental party's humanism extends to those who have the resources, strength and contacts to pay for refugees smugglers to take them across the border to Sweden. Those who make that journey have to cost as much as they want. When they are allowed to cost money because you want to be humane, someone else can be without the same money – alternative costs. An asylum seeker who receives a residence permit in Sweden costs the pension system net 800 000 SEK. The asylum process costs tens of thousands or perhaps hundreds of thousands of dollars. Then there is the fact that not even half is self-sufficient after more than ten years in the country. When it comes to asylum seekers from some countries, the majority never become self-sufficient. Then you have to ask yourself: how many people could you help on the spot for the same money- women, children, the poor? It is about giving shelter over your head, blankets, beds, medicine, water, food and basal help to those who need it. What the Green Party's humanism does is steal the resources directly from those who are most vulnerable. Our humanism focuses on the total opposite.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1188	Madam President, I would like There is obviously a misunderstanding. We have never ever tried to monopolise humanism. We all welcome into the corner of humanism. There is room here, just as there is room in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats are welcome. All members of Parliament are welcome into humanism. Unfortunately, we often feel too lonely in the debate in this part. Humanism no longer characterises the debate on migration in Sweden, and I am the first to regret that. The image that we want to make asylum possible only for those who manage to get to the Swedish border is also wrong. We have been working towards more ways in to seek asylum legally. We think that these paths need to be extended, for example, to enable more people to apply for asylum on the ground, where they are. When we talk about costs, I would like to say one thing: Sweden would have been a completely different country with a completely different welfare if we had the closed walls that the Swedish democrats dream of. We have so many who have come here to Sweden, some to seek shelter and some because they just wanted to live here, which now contributes to our welfare – in health care, in home care, in business. We would have been a much poorer country without these people's contribution to our common welfare building. I am concerned about what closed borders mean for the possibility of maintaining welfare in Sweden in the future.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1193	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think there has been a misunderstanding here. The Swedish Democrats have never stood for closed borders or closed walls. There is good immigration, and there is immigration that is less good for society. There is such immigration that adds a great deal, and there are such things that are very costly in general. We can clear up that misunderstanding right now. The Green Party's problem is precisely what the honourable Member says: you not only want to give asylum to those who have come to Sweden, but you also want to extend it to most people. The problem is that one lacks insight into the need for priorities. The resources are limited. Pure Crash helps your humanism fewer, and it primarily helps men who have the strength to get here to Sweden through lots of safe countries. The money it costs is taken directly from the women, children and poor who remain in the neighbourhood.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1197	Madam President, I would like There seem to be many of us who dream of a world with fewer wars and less misery. However, the method of working for it is actually spelled a policy of aid. Aid policy is one thing that needs to cost. It is extremely important for Sweden to be able to have both a generous migration policy and a stable development policy. Unfortunately, the honourable Member has no opportunity to reply, but in the budget put forward by the Swedish Democrats, it can be seen that there is nothing there about helping on the ground. You can read it in the budget. They want neither migration to Sweden nor active work to actually help the people who get stuck in war areas.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1199	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to thank you for an interesting debate this afternoon and evening. Special thanks for some of the contributions from the Centre Party and the Liberals! There have been constructive contributions, I think, which bode well in the continuing process of the migration report and what we should come up with. Of course, Rikard Larsson and Karolina Skog have also done good posts, but that goes without saying, so to speak. I took a few lines earlier in the debate with the Moderates and the KD to show how inconsistent their line is, particularly with regard to integration issues. On the one hand, they talk about how important it is for people to get into work and for children to receive support; on the other hand, they are putting forward proposals on the custody allowance, which means that immigrant women are kept out of the labour market and their children are kept away from childcare. That, in fact, is what this proposal is about. It would be a starting point for all that integration is called if it went through. It will be very clear, and we will come back to this in the forthcoming discussions. Sweden is today a country characterised by diversity. 20% of our population was born in another country. One fifth of the workforce, up to 1 million people who have their roots in another country, wake up every morning in Sweden and go to work in industry, on construction, in trade, at the police, in defence and, perhaps worth noting at the moment, in health care and care. As we now go through the most difficult test for Swedish healthcare and care in modern times, we can see that 34% of doctors were born in another country and that the same applies to almost 40 percent of nurses and 30 percent of nurses. Perhaps you should think about that sometimes, especially now that so many parties are doing everything they can to constantly paint immigrants as a problem, not infrequently as the root of all evil. But that's not the case. Diversity is a fact in our country, and it has become more important today than ever to say that modern Sweden consists of 10 million people with different backgrounds, different origins, different religions and different skin colours. But what unites us is that we are all equal and that our common home is Sweden. Integration is precisely about getting all these different parts to function as a whole based on our fundamental values of democracy, human rights and gender equality. It is not always easy to do that, but it is possible, and the road to integration is called work. This autumn it is exactly five years since the major refugee crisis. In autumn 2015, Sweden received over 100 000 asylum seekers. Most of them came from war Syria. We then managed to give all the roofs over our heads and food for the day through a huge effort by the Migration Agency, the municipalities and civil society. That's good. But it was also obvious to most that Sweden would not be able to continue receiving at that rate. We had to stop in order to give all those who have already come a good reception and a good chance of integration. Then we had to introduce border controls on 12 November 2015. We had to introduce ID checks on 4 January 2016. We had to bring asylum legislation down to the EU minimum level with the temporary law that entered into force on 20 July 2016. I was the minister responsible at the time, too. It was not the simplest political task that we have had to perform, nor the most popular one. This was very controversial and very controversial. It was hardly, for example, that we got through the proposal on the ID checks in this House. For example, the Moderates were unable to vote in favour of the ID checks at that time. But we did, and it was absolutely necessary and we also gave results. Since 2015, the number of asylum seekers to Sweden has decreased by over 90%, and today we have the lowest level in 20 years. But not only the number of asylum seekers has decreased, but also the proportion that comes to Sweden has decreased. At most, Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Today it is 3%, that is, about the proportion that Sweden has of the EU population and GDP. This gave us breathing space so that we could concentrate on integrating all those who had come and built homes, expanding schools and health care, creating fast-tracks into the labour market for the tens of thousands of new arrivals and at the same time rejecting and sending home those who have not been granted a residence permit. There were many who said at the time, five years ago, that we would never be able to do this, that the state finances would fail, that unemployment would fall and that social security benefits would fall to the ceiling. Today we know that none of it came true. On the contrary, during the last term of office, public debt fell by SEK 130 billion. During the last term of office, unemployment also fell by one fifth. During the last term of office, the rate of social security benefits fell by nearly 10 per cent. So five years ago, the accidents were wrong. The most important reason for this is that with our policy, more and more new arrivals came to work more and more quickly. I said in a previous line shift that during the alliance years the rate of integration was miserable. On average, it took almost ten years for half of the newcomers to enter the labour market. That's what happened. We almost halved that time down to 4 - 5 years. During the last parliamentary term, therefore, new arrivals came to work almost twice as fast as in the alliance years, despite the fact that we had received so many refugees. Actually, if you think about it, it's remarkable. It was good what we did then, but we can't do it again. We should not have to do it again, because it is not certain that we will be able to do it as well next time. I am fundamentally proud that since the war broke out in Syria in 2011, we have provided shelter for over 180 000 refugees from that war. It is men, women and children who might otherwise have perished. This is Sweden's greatest humanitarian effort ever. It beats everything else. I'm basically proud of it, as I said. But everyone will understand that it is not reasonable or sustainable if Sweden and some other countries continue to take disproportionate responsibility. That is why we should have a common European regulatory framework in which we help each other and in which we create order and order instead of the chaos that we experienced a few years ago. Such a regulatory framework is currently being developed under Ylva Johansson's leadership in the European Commission. But even more important is the recognition that one country cannot have asylum legislation that deviates significantly from that of the other EU countries. Future asylum legislation must be in line with that of other EU countries, but at the same time it must be humane, legally secure and contribute to greater integration. We have now received such a proposal from the Migration Committee. I think it looks basically good. This means a transition to temporary residence permits. But it is also based on a reasonable balance between rights and obligations. The right of asylum is upheld. The person in need of protection should be protected, first through temporary residence permits. But after three years you can apply for a permanent residence permit that you can get if you meet certain requirements: that you can support yourself, that you have basic knowledge of Swedish and how Swedish society works and that you have not committed any crimes. It contains rights and obligations – the right to protection but the obligation to do what you can to get into the new society, to integrate. It's clear, it's clear and it's easy for everyone to understand. These bills are for referral. We expect to come to Parliament this spring with the proposal, in order to have a new law in place on 20 July 2021. I hope for good cooperation with Parliament on this extremely important issue during the spring. Asylum legislation will be a major task. But another major task in this area in the coming years will be to also reform the rules on labour immigration. I think that almost everyone now understands that the reform carried out by the Moderates ten years ago has been a complete failure. This was confirmed only yesterday by the Swedish National Audit Office's strong criticism. A year ago, all the authorities working against organised crime also came with the same harsh criticism. The labour immigration rules they now look like invite the exploitation of employees, trafficking in human beings, excessive working conditions and fraud and fraud involving tax revenue. No one can really be surprised about that. That is what we said from the outset, ten years ago, the Social Democrats and the trade union movement. We knew and saw that it was a purely ordering work from employers, rather from the rogue employers who would like to have cheap and frightened labor that you can drive with little how you want, get to work for 30 kronor an hour and let live in a basement. That's exactly what it looks like. Madam President, I would like There is a very clear class aspect here. Sweden is the only country in the world that has labour migration also for professions where we have no shortage. I don't think any other countries do. We have labour migration for cleaners, for dishwashers and for window cleaners. One can calculate with a crooked stick that the low-wage groups are much more likely to be exploited, especially when they come to a country that already has 450 000 unemployed. We have taken action against this. We've increased workplace inspections. We have doubled the fine imposed on rogue employers who employ workers who do not have a right of residence in the country. We have introduced new criminal law legislation specifically concerning human exploitation. But it is quite clear that we need to do much more. Now we set up a review, an investigator to propose measures against cheating and exploitation. We shall have a first interim report in February. But I can already say here and now that one of our top priorities is to clean up the labour immigration reform that was so wrong-thinking from the start. I believe that its former proponents are also beginning to reconsider. There are some examples of this already in this debate. Well, that's good, then. This is legislation based entirely on the interests of employers, which completely ignores the employees and which opens the door to fraud and falsification with taxpayers' money. That is why this must be reformed. But it will not happen without conflict. Clearly, employers who are now exploiting and exploiting poor people from around the world will not give up in the first place. They will mobilize all their lobbyist organisations and PR agencies to stop any change. There will be a conflict on this. But in that case, there is a conflict that we must take. I trust that there is now a dawning understanding of this, including among most parties in the Riksdag, so that a decisive decision can be taken that fundamentally reformes this system.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1228	Madam President, I would like After I gave my speech, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson took my line. The theme was the Moderate election promises for the 2022 elections. Will the Moderates give way to the Christian Democrats' desire to reintroduce the custody allowance? It is interesting that the Moderates' election promises for 2022 are of interest to the Minister for Migration, Madam President. It's the 2022 election we're talking about. This made me interested in what election promises Social Democrats went to elections in 2018. Elections were made in favour of a very limited immigration policy. But after the formation of a government, everything that has been touched has instead generated increased immigration. Morgan Johansson asks me to give advance information on the policy the Moderates will pursue in this House when we form a government. My question to the Minister for Migration is: why are you in government, on the contrary, against what you said in the run-up to the elections? Immigration has increased with your policy. It does so with these proposals compared to the promises that you made to elections in 2018.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1231	Madam President, I would like It is probably not just me who is interested in what questions the Moderates and other parties will go to elections in 2022. I think most of them are. I just point to the inconsistency of standing here in the speaker's chair and telling you how important it is to get people into the labour market and that people go to work, especially the foreign-born women, and in the next breath open to additional custody allowances, as they always do. This means that immigrant women are paid to remain housewives. It was the inconsistency in what I put the search light on. I can ask Arin Karapet one more time. In his line to me, he opened up to introduce custody allowance in 2022. Does he not understand the devastating consequences for integration if women are locked into that system and, in addition, their children are prevented from taking part in childcare? That question remains for him to answer. Madam President, I would like It is not true that we have increased the reception of asylum – quite the opposite. Sweden now has the lowest reception rate in 20 years, not only as a number but also as a percentage. As I said, when the Moderates ruled Sweden, Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Today we accept 3%. Since 2015, it has decreased by 90 percent in real numbers. No, our entrance is that Sweden received very many during a succession of years. I'm proud that we've been able to protect that many people. But we cannot continue to receive more than our share of those who come to Europe. We're about there now. However, do not claim that asylum immigration has increased during our time. Actually, it's exactly the opposite.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1236	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats went to elections to ensure that there would be no more exceptions to migration policy. After the elections, concessions have been made to the Green Party. Only a few weeks ago, an amendment to the regulation was sought. There was a desire for exceptions for all unaccompanied adults who had no grounds for protection and who had already been tried. No other group in our society has had as many opportunities and opportunities as that group. It's because politics is going on and patching and fixing with your exceptions, Morgan Johansson. It's not those individuals that's wrong, it's politics. Now it wanted to make a new relaxation on humanitarian protection grounds, and it meant that it would lead to a reduction in immigration, when everything indicates that immigration will increase. Morgan Johansson is thus inconsistent as a minister when it comes to what he does after the elections compared to what he said before the elections.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1238	Madam President, I would like When I took over this portfolio six years ago, Sweden received about 12% of all asylum applications, after the Moderates pushed forward legislation that was Europe's most generous and thus led Sweden into the crisis. I took responsibility for the crisis and was involved in pushing through decisions that enabled us to deal with it. Since we took office, the number of asylum applications has fallen by over 90%. The image that Mr Arin is trying to give – that we have somehow increased the reception of asylum – is therefore completely wrong. We don't. It is rather the opposite; we now have the lowest in 20 years. The Moderates are extremely attached to the unaccompanied. Different figures are used in the debate as to how many there are: 13 000, 9 000 or 7 000. They are in this group 5 800 which is currently covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act. I thought and still think that there was and there is reason, now that the Corona situation is as it is, to ease that regulatory framework as well. But this does not in any way overturn Swedish migration policy.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1241	Madam President, I would like I thought, when we have the Minister in the Chamber, that we should take the opportunity to take up the report in the Swedish Radio Ekot on the Ukrainian working genius using the Swedish asylum system. For those of you who do not know about it, the company sells work trips to Sweden and then helps those who pay for this to apply for asylum in Sweden with false asylum stories and so on. It is not asylum itself that is the point but to get a job. The opportunity used is called the switch of tracks, and we in the Christian Democrats are pushing for that opportunity to be removed. There we previously agreed with the Social Democrats, but now they have changed their feet and have set up an investigation to review whether the possibility of track change can be broadened and facilitated. My question to the Minister is really about labour immigration, because I think that this goes hand in hand. I do not really understand the line of Social Democracy. On the Social Democrats' website, it says that a labour immigration policy should only be allowed when it is not possible to find the right people in Sweden. Another quote is that jobs that require short or no education should primarily go to unemployed people who already live in Sweden. ..................................................... I think that there are opportunities for Social Democrats and Christian Democrats to meet here. But my question will be how this goes with the change of track. It's somewhere where it's gonna be a little hard to follow the line of thought. I would have understood if the Social Democrats had held on to their previous view that a change of track was not something they wanted to keep. But now that you want to keep it and also facilitate it, you open up the possibility of where we have our own workforce getting in people who take jobs in Sweden. This is a concrete question to Morgan Johansson.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1245	Madam President, I would like I'll start by sorting this out. The Ukrainian working genius does not take advantage of the change of track itself. That is not how they worked, but they worked on the possibility for those who apply for asylum to work while the asylum examination takes place – what is called an AT-UND, i.e. a work permit during that time. This can't be touched by the change of track, because it has nothing to do with this. This is achieved by having legislation that allows applications from countries with very low rates of grant to be processed more quickly – those on a so-called safe country list. The Government will decide tomorrow to present a bill to Parliament to introduce such a list. Setting Ukraine up on the safe countries list means that asylum applications from Ukraine are handled in a fast track. Instead of being able to stay here for three four months and work with AT-UND, these people will instead go on the fast track, and that will in most cases mean that they will have their asylum application processed within a few weeks and thus have to leave the country. They will thus never be able to work in the way that has happened, and then we turn away the kind of business idea that the Ukrainian company has. The safe countries list and the legislation that is supposed to enter into force on 1 May are therefore taking care of this problem. When it comes to the change of track, I can ask Hans Eklind: If you are so much against changing tracks, why did you introduce it then? That was the case; it was the Christian Democrats and the Alliance Government who did so. It is based on the fact that after working for some time you should have the opportunity to become a labour immigrant instead. This requires working full-time for four months. The opportunity is exploited by a very small proportion. I think there were a thousand applications during the last period. This is not where the big cheating is, but in the second part of labour migration – those who come directly from their own countries.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1250	Madam President, I would like I note that the Migration Agency believes that the switching of tracks is being abused more and more. It is notable that at least the Migration Agency thinks this is a problem. It is quite right, and I also tried to point out that those who come here from Ukraine are not looking for asylum. You apply for asylum, and during the processing period you make sure to have a job. Then you can apply for a work permit instead. I fully agree with Morgan Johansson that we need a safe country list. It sounds great that it's coming now. On the Social Democrats' website you still write like this: I do not get the words of the Social Democrats that we now need to review the rules on labour immigration to be linked to a simultaneous investigation into facilitating the change of track. This if anything is inconsistent.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1254	Madam President, I would like This is a classic example of not seeing the forest for all trees. Some are being pulled out, the change of track, which is not really the main problem, and they try to make it the main problem and blow up its proportions. As I said, we are dealing with a very small proportion of the total number of applications for work permits that we are dealing with, and that is not the main problem. The main problem is that, in general, we have a system of labour immigration also for professions where we have no shortage. This, too, was created by the Christian Democrats once ten years ago. You were involved in pushing such a system. I would like to have an order– I hope that we will get as far as possible– where we, on the one hand, clean up the system itself and, on the other hand, impose restrictions in such a way that we have labour immigration for the professions where we have a shortage. We'll see how far we get here in Parliament with the collaborations we have, but I think we're going to have to take a good grip on labour immigration in the future to ensure that we curb this kind of cheating.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1257	Madam President, I would like Is it something you can be sure of, it is that Minister of Migration Johansson is satisfied with what the situation is and with the government's policy, of course. He was satisfied before the crisis in 2015, he was satisfied during the crisis and he is satisfied now. Whatever happens, he's happy. Either the government has been right all along, or they are right when they change their mind. Or they're right now, and that's what counts. The Minister's regular response to everything that has been on migration policy in the last six months is that we have the lowest levels throughout the 21st century, which is, of course, a good thing. I also mentioned it in my speech, and I saw that the Minister nodded in agreement. However, he is happy to say that this is solely due to the coronapndemin. The government's new proposal, which he released late on a Friday evening, goes in a different direction, to say the least: a Tinder Act to facilitate family immigration with new relationships, more tax-funded family immigration for quota refugees and also a new, generous basis of protection, which has been mentioned several times before, to give residence permits to all those who have been clinging to Sweden long enough. What I wonder is how the Minister can at the same time nod in agreement that it is good to reduce immigration and be satisfied with proposals that will undoubtedly increase immigration. Is the Minister satisfied with the 12 500 asylum seekers on which we appear to land this year, or will the Minister be satisfied when we are back in 25 000 asylum seekers?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1261	Madam President, I would like I nodded in agreement when Jonas Andersson said that we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years, because that is a truth. But it does not always sound like that on SD, but rather you are trying to say that there is still mass immigration, exchanges and all that you are doing in social media, on Twitter and so on. That's the kind of rhetoric you guys do. Now Jonas Andersson says that we have the lowest levels in 20 years, and that is correct. But he is wrong when he claims that this is only due to Corona. The truth is that last year, before Corona, we were at very low levels, as was the year before. He might be happy to stand and wave his head, but that's actually the way it is, Jonas Andersson. From the 160,000 that came in 2015, it decreased sharply already in 2016, and it continued since 2017, 2018 and 2019 to be at stable very low levels. As a matter of fact, that was the case. This was, among other things, an effect of the measures we took. Jonas Andersson is also wrong when he says that the new proposals on family reunification are about including new relationships. No, this is about established relationships in your home country. But we have room for this if, for various reasons, we have not been able to live together in our home country, for example, if it has been a homosexual relationship and you come from a country where it may even be associated with the death penalty to live together at all. If there is an established relationship in the home country in such a situation, the right to family reunification shall be granted. That is what the proposal is about. It's not about new relationships, it's about established relationships. Then the question is whether I am satisfied. No, there are always things you have to do. But I can say that nothing has become a reality of what SD stood and said in 2015 and 2016 that everything would fail and that the public finances would go to pieces. I am quite happy about this.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1265	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The levels have been between 20 000 and 25 000 in recent years. I guess that's what the Minister for Migration is happy with. But I also understand that it is difficult for him to answer, because it is well after all the Green Party that has the last word. Madam President, I would like It's almost Christmas. As usual, Morgan Johansson makes me think about Kalle Ankas's Christmas Eve, this time more specifically on the Jungle Book. I can see the Minister of Migration lurking around with legislation like Baloo lurking around with Mowgli. All of a sudden, the foreigner's law lies where the outs are in a small pile. I can then play Bagheera's role as the distinguished one who says: Tell me, now that you have made a lot of new loopholes and exceptions, how do you think it will be when the pandemic is over? Unfortunately, Morgan Johansson's answer to these questions will hardly be a soothing present to the Swedish people. With that, I wish the Minister a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1268	Madam President, I would like If I am Baloo, then Jonas Andersson is the woodpecker in Kalle Ankas's Christmas Eve. Sometimes in these lines, you hear the same thing over and over again. In substance, I would just like to say that I am happy and proud of two things in migration policy. One is that we have been able to take care of as many as we have. We have saved tens of thousands of people from a terrible fate: to remain in war and oppression. The second is that much of what the accident ravens said five years ago has not come true, whether it be unemployment, social assistance or state finances. I am also quite happy and grateful for that. Of course, I also wish Jonas Andersson a really merry Christmas and a happy new year. I am sure we will see each other in debates during the new year.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1271	Madam President, I would like Now we have heard both the Green Party and the Center Party talk about how they view the new humanitarian protection base. The other day I listened to Morgan Johansson's appearance in Agenda and tried to understand whether it was the interpretation of the new humanitarian protection foundation by the Center Party, the Green Party or anyone else. I found it very difficult to read the answer to that question. That is why I would now like to ask two very direct questions. Will those licensed under the new High School Act be able to fit into such a new humanitarian protection base, as the Government sees it? Will those who have been authorised under the new Upper Secondary Education Act but whose permit has ceased be able to benefit from the new humanitarian protection basis? I refer, for example, to those whose condition expired last week and who have not been able to find work because of the pandemic.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1274	Madam President, I would like The basis for humanitarian protection is to avoid unreasonable situations as we move from permanent residence permits as a base to temporary residence permits. There must be a safety valve to deal with certain particularly distressing situations. Take, for example, the following situation: A 40-year-old has been here eight to ten years, works, pays taxes, has a family, knows Swedish and is integrated in Sweden, but has gone around on temporary residence permits. Suddenly there will be peace in the home country, and this person will be tested against the need for protection. Then the question is: If the need for protection has ceased, is he or she to be expelled? No, I do not think that is reasonable, because then the person has such a connection with Sweden that in that situation there must be an opportunity to obtain a residence permit, but not a permanent residence permit, because that is not what it is about, but an extension of the temporary residence permit. Then, of course, you will be able to work your way in and get a permanent residence permit if you meet the requirements that exist. It is an example of such a situation. This does not include those who have a final rejection. If it is in the bottom, as many of the unaccompanied people have, it is not covered by the humanitarian protection base. In addition, it is not only about the time you have been in Sweden, but you must also be able to show something else that gives you the particularly distressing circumstances that you should be able to refer to. Does this mean that no unaccompanied minors will be included? No, nor can it be said, since this is tested individually on a case-by-case basis. This is not an amnesty, as some claim, but a way of avoiding unreasonable situations for which a safety valve must be provided.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1278	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. That was a clearer answer than I was able to find out in Agenda the other day. I would really like to see a really good humanitarian protection base. I would also think it would be very good if we could include, for example, stateless people who have lived here for decades without being expelled, but also without being able to work or anything else. There really is a need for a valve, and I hope that the government will work particularly on the issue of practical enforcement barriers. But what I hear the Government say here is not consistent with what I hear from the Green Party. As the Government says, a lot of the young people affected by the new High School Act have expulsion decisions at the bottom. We need to change that if we want it to be as the Green Party says. The same applies to the Center Party.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1281	Madam President, I would like That is the proposal. If you have a definitive rejection at the bottom, you cannot be tried in relation to the new humanitarian protection base, which is quite natural. It is, of course, about looking at the situations where, for example, you have been on temporary residence permits for a very long time and got this connection. Then, of course, I hope that many of the unaccompanied people have the opportunity to establish themselves in the labour market, even though we will not get through at least the first part of our proposals to alleviate the conditions. In the light of the Corona situation, I think there are arguments for relaxing the requirements and giving them longer time and a slightly lighter working condition. Now I see that there is opposition in Parliament to this. I'm sorry about that. I would have liked to have seen such a change.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1283	Madam President, I would like I listened to the Minister when he made his description of the Swedish regulations on labour immigration. There are indeed a lot of problems there. That is quite correct. These problems are mainly found among those who immigrate to Sweden for very low incomes. There are problems with, among other things, exploitation, cheating and abuse – and, of course, displacement effects, as there are many unemployed people without education in Sweden now. We must, of course, address this issue. There's an investigation rolling now. We have said on the Liberal side: If you are to immigrate to Sweden, the lowest income you can get should correspond to Swedish collective agreements for full-time service. Then the lowest incomes would be raised by at least 6 000 - 7 000. There are also some other solutions that have been pointed out. But then, Madam President, the Council of State takes the floor only to shout about it and says that the whole reform that took place more than ten years ago is a complete failure. That is what I am reacting to, Madam President. It is a black painting that only takes up the problems that exist. There are also a number of huge advantages to labour migration. We have important companies in Sweden that have their skills supply secured through high-performance, highly educated and often also highly paid labour. I can't quite understand why you should make things more difficult for them too. It is a very important supply of skills that the Swedish economy feels very good about and that has generated a lot of jobs. The black-painting of labour migration, where you hit as hugely wide as the Government does, is not really fair.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1287	Madam President, I would like I can understand that Fredrik Malm does not think so. But that is what we are seeing now, not least in the light of all the workplace inspections that we are now carrying out. We have given authority to reinforce it. It is about going into the buildings, restaurants and places where we know that there are cheating and fiffles just to see what it really looks like. People sleep two metres from the stove they work at during the day. That's what it might look like. People live in basements and work for 30 kroner an hour. It's not just what I'm saying. It's the reality that it works that way. I sometimes think that some bourgeois politicians miss the class aspect that exists. It is obvious that if you come here to Sweden as an engineer, economist or IT specialist to a company where you are really needed and basically have a high salary, it is clear that you will be well cared for there and usually not being exploited and exploited. But if you come here as a dishwasher, cleaners, window cleaners, or as those who sit and paint nails in the shops, it is clear that you run a tremendous risk of being exploited by rogue employers. I think we will be able to find ways forward. I find the discussion about full-time and part-time work very interesting. Then you postpone the salary threshold. We'll see what the investigator finds out. I would really like to go back to the order in which we have a labour market test and that it is the shortage of jobs that we have labour immigration for and not any other occupations. That's the reasonable thing to do. I also know that there is a discussion between the cooperating parties. We'll see how far we can get in that part simply. I'm determined now to try to clean up this system, because this can't go on.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1293	Madam President, I would like Now the government is repeating that black-painting. I don't know if people sleep on dirty mattresses next to the oven at Swedbank, Sandvik, Volvo, Ericsson, Handelsbanken and so on. We have an extensive labour migration to Sweden of experts and highly skilled workers. It is an extremely important supply of skills. Madam President, I would like I am not really here to polemise with the Government about the problems that actually exist. I see them, too. They are mainly within the categories that Morgan Johansson here is rumbling up in hotels and restaurants, or whatever it may be, as a dishwasher and so on. There are other problems related to this and so on. That is something we really need to get to grips with. But you also have to see the other side. It is about skills deportations of people who have not made any mistakes and serious employers who do not find the skills in Sweden, for example.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1295	Madam President, I would like No, I have no ambition to make labour immigration more difficult for those professions where we need labour immigration, quite the contrary. I also see that there is a problem with skills deportation. The investigation is also tasked with reviewing that part. It is possible that you do not sleep on dirty mattresses at Swedbank. But it is done in the restaurants around Möllevången in Malmö or in other places where the system has been used in a terrible way many times. Nevertheless, we have a common problem picture as to what kind of cheating, misappropriation and exploitation we are going to get at. We will certainly also come up with common solutions. I hope to continue a good discussion between the January parties so that we can come up with those solutions and solve the problems that we are going to solve.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1298	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Migration and the Government for their good cooperation during the year on the migration issue as a whole and, above all, on the points concerning the January agreement. Not surprisingly, I will also talk about labour migration. I would like to start by saying that I have great respect for the fact that the Social Democrats and, among other things, the Center Party have quite large differences in entry values on the issue of labour immigration. I know that it was a great concession for the Social Democrats in the framework of the January agreement. However, I would like to read out what is stated in the January agreement: the problem of competence expulsions must be resolved. A special visa for highly qualified people looking for a job or starting a business should be introduced. The current framework for labour migration should be safeguarded. When I hear the Minister for Migration both in the debate here today and in a series of statements over the last month, I still get a little worried about the last sentence of the January agreement. In fact, when the Minister for Migration says that labour immigration is to be reformed fundamentally, that is not what we agreed on. We agreed on directives that I think are good. The Center Party fully agrees that fraud and organised crime do not belong in any part of society, nor in terms of labour migration. The directives are broader than what we agreed on when we concluded the January agreement. That is why I, along with many others, have become concerned about recent statements by the Minister for Migration. I would like to make sure and ask the question: can the Minister of Migration promise that the current system of labour immigration will be safeguarded?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1305	Madam President, I would like Yes, Jonny Cato can be safe with that. What we may differ in is how to safeguard the system of labour immigration. I think we both agree that it must not continue as it is now with exploitation, the trickery and the cheating. It is not just that people are being exploited. It is also cheating with tax money. This applies, for example, to personal assistants. The authorities working against organised crime raised it last year as a way of simply milking money out of welfare systems. If it is allowed to continue, it cannot be said that the system is being protected. We protect the system by ensuring that it is sustainable in the long term and that it does not have the varieties that we are seeing right now. That's exactly why we set up the investigation. We'll see where it lands. If I had to decide for myself, I would have gone all the way and said that we should re-establish the labour market test. But I must stay within the limits of what is here and ensure that we stick to the arrangements that have been made. If we can't go all the way, maybe we can find other ways to solve this particular problem. Liberals are on the issue of full-time and part-time work. I may find it strange that you can come here as a labour immigrant to work part-time as a cleaner and then bring the whole family here without any requirement for subsistence. I think that's very strange. It opens the door to cheating and falsification. It's just one question. There are many more. Let us look at when the reports come from the investigation and examine those proposals together and see which are effective and how we do best to get to the offshoots that exist within the system. I'm sure we can find solutions together.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1311	Madam President, I would like I also have good hopes that together we will be able to find good measures to tackle fraud and organised crime. There's no dividing line. Nor is it a secret that the Social Democrats in recent years have carried a rather harsh rhetoric, not least in election movements, against labour immigration as such. As a centre party and guardian of the labour immigration system, it is clear that one is worried when the Social Democrats say: We are going to reform it fundamentally. In an interview after an interview, they highlight rather far-reaching suggestions. We and many others are protecting labour migration. Not least the IT companies, the forest industry, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and many others were worried, and hence my question. I also have good hopes that we can find reasonable proposals in the future. Cheating and crime are going to go away, but we are still going to have a breadth and a good system for labour migration in the future. We agree on this within the framework of the January agreement.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1315	Madam President, I would like It is certainly true, as Jonny Cato says, that we have had and have a rather harsh rhetoric about this. But that is because we see these problems in everyday life. And that applies not only to what our authorities see when they do workplace inspections, but also to what the trade unions see. Hotels and restaurants see it, and Building sees it everywhere. The trade unions working on this are seeing this every day, quite simply. They see how the system is exploited. I find it offensive that we have a system that invites this type of exploitation. We must do something about that. We will find solutions, and I am sure that we will be able to do so. We stick together, but I just want to say that this is one of the issues that it is extremely important for us to address together during our term of office. It is also a way of protecting the system itself and the needs of other parts of the business community.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1318	Madam President, I would like For decisions on this matter, I refer to the specific opinion of the Moderates. Moderates' budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation. Against this background, we reject our position. This issue is about how we can protect, safeguard and maintain financial stability, in particular those institutions that will safeguard the financial system and financial stability in Sweden and which also supervise how general economic policy is managed. It is therefore a very important issue. It is particularly important in these times. It is not entirely clear what the situation we now have will lead to. This area of expenditure addresses a number of important issues which in many ways create the conditions for a good economy with a well-functioning financial market. In addition to the pandemic, Sweden has to deal with high unemployment and serious crime. This is Sweden's major problem. In the Moderate Budget Movement, we therefore focused on ensuring that Sweden should be prepared to further exacerbate the pandemic, to crack unemployment and to combat crime. To take height for a situation in which the Corona crisis would worsen, the Moderates' budget contains a crisis buffer. It can be used both to strengthen health care and to support the economy to push back unemployment once the spread of infection has taken off again. To break unemployment, we ensure that the work line is restored by tightening up the Swedish benefit systems, introducing a premium ceiling, ensuring that new arrivals gradually qualify for the Swedish benefit systems and exchanging inefficient tax deductions for broader tax reductions on labour and investment. Welfare is provided with more resources while at the same time subjecting it to a tax freeze so that future tax increases do not threaten economic recovery. The tax gap between employees and pensioners introduced by the government is removed. In order to combat crime, we propose a pattern-breaking criminal policy that can destroy gangs and restore security. It is also a question, for example, of providing the entire judiciary with resources and of making the police profession more attractive. By focusing on solving Sweden's major problems, we can ensure that Sweden becomes a country where unemployment is pushed back, more are safe and the resources for welfare can grow.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1328	Madam President, I would like The authorities in the expenditure area have an important democratic role to play in analysing, forecasting and compiling information on state finances, on reforms and on the economy in general. At present, the authorities are doing an effective job and therefore the policy direction should be to ensure funding so that they can continue to maintain good government, oversight and control in the future. Within the framework of its work, Finansinspektionen has established an innovation centre whose main task is to provide guidance to those companies that, for example, feel uncertain regarding rules and permits. The Swedish democrats are currently seeing a significant risk that a lack of funding from the agency will lead to an outdated regulatory framework that in the future does not keep up with the pace of innovation in the Swedish fintech sector. Many of the Swedish companies are at the forefront of the technology shift that is currently under way, and thus there is a high demand for Finansinspektionen's expertise and experience. The supply of financial services is increasing and is likely to continue at an unabated pace. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats see a need for an increase of SEK 5 million per year during the budget period, in accordance with the Authority's own request. Furthermore, Madam President, during the year we have seen major falls on the world's stock exchanges, and because of that we also saw a Swedish credit market froze. The reason for this was a lack of liquidity. Due to the large stock exchanges, many attempted to dispose of their holdings simultaneously in a market which was largely without buyers and thus unable to price the assets properly. In the long run, a malfunctioning credit market would also pose a risk to financial stability as companies become more dependent on bank financing. Bank financing is already the main source of finance for companies in a banking sector which, in relation to GDP, is by far one of the largest in the world. This is particularly serious because 35 of the total of 60 European funds temporarily closed down when the Swedish credit market froze were Swedish. This, of course, needs to be addressed. Then the question is how we do it. The answer of the Swedish democrats to that question is as follows: we must increase liquidity, and we must improve transparency. The basic problem in the credit market is that transparency is limited because much of the trading takes place outside regulated trading venues – so-called OTC trading or over-the-counter trading. There, information on closing prices is difficult to access, and information on trade volumes is usually non-transparent. However, at an international level, there are examples of systems where price, volume and party information is published only minutes after the transaction has taken place. In this way, it has also been possible to create a register where aggregate data on bond turnover can be built. In the United States, for example, this has increased transparency and improved transparency for investors and enabled them to analyse the liquidity of the underlying papers. The Swedish Democrats want to see a similar modernised and digitised system for bond trading in Sweden. Furthermore, Madam President, we have seen in the wake of the pandemic that Finansinspektionen has granted a temporary amortisation relief to the country's households at least until August 2021. This is, in our view, a completely correct decision, but at the same time it undermines the whole raison d'être of the second amortisation requirement because the second amortisation requirement was introduced on the grounds that it would increase resilience in times of crisis. Now we are in a time of crisis, but instead we need to temporarily abolish the requirement because, on the contrary, it has reduced the resilience of households during the pandemic – that is, contrary to the whole idea of origin. At best, the second amortisation requirement leads to the exclusion of households with good payment capacity from the housing market and to the shift to an uncertain secondary market with sky-high rents. It can be both single and young adults. This may, for example, involve a couple who have recently graduated from the university, with good cash flow but with a level of effort that activates the second amortisation requirement and thus makes it impossible to enter the housing market in our most rapidly growing and labour-intensive regions. Since the peak in 2017, residential building has decreased by 30 per cent in the kingdom and by as much as 50 per cent in the Stockholm region. In the worst case, the requirement is thus directly inhibiting growth and leads to socio-economic welfare losses. The government must immediately take political action to abolish the requirement because we are now black and white that the second amortisation requirement is ineffective and counterproductive. This is also a line that is supported in the research by Professor Lars EO Svensson, the Financial Policy Council and the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. In conclusion, Madam President, I do not have a motion here today because the level of appropriations of the Swedish Democrats exceeds the expenditure framework laid down by Parliament. However, I have presented proposals that would ensure the financing of Finansinspektionen's innovation centre and thus improve the opportunities and prospects for Swedish fintech innovation. I have presented proposals that would increase liquidity and improve transparency in the Swedish credit market. I have also presented proposals that would enable more young adults to realise the dream of a home of their own.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1342	Madam President, I would like Time and again we have heard of news about money laundering. Through the media we have seen and heard how the major Swedish banks are used for extensive money laundering. Only yesterday, today's industry reported that the U.S. Federal Police, the FBI, is investigating suspicions of money laundering and fraud in Swedbank and SEB. More Swedish banks have also been identified in various reports. Banks should be aware of their customers but do not appear to have them, despite their legal responsibilities. We from the Left Party have criticised the fact that the government has been very slow and has not taken hold of the work on money laundering in the way that would have been necessary. We have therefore put forward several own proposals to show what could and should be done. These include strengthened fines, measures to reduce staff turnover at Finansinspektionen, higher supervisory fees and a special anti-money laundering authority similar to the one in Holland where resources from various law enforcement agencies are gathered. We also proposed more financial resources. We also contacted the Christian Democrats, who had many similar proposals to address the problems of money laundering. We agreed on a proposal for a committee initiative. This eventually led to the support of the whole committee and the establishment of a state inquiry, which was very welcome. That investigation will be completed in May next year. But since the initiative came and the investigation was set up, we have seen new revelations, and we know that the work of the Financial Supervisory Authority needs to be strengthened. In the 2020 budget, we therefore proposed 20 million to the Agency so that it could strengthen its work. Now the government adds half of it, and that is a bit along the way but not enough. The Left Party believes that an additional 10 million is needed, and we therefore propose it in our budget motion. We need to take a strong stand against money laundering. We support this proposal and our budget as a whole, but, as our framework budget has fallen, we are abstaining from our position. I refer to our opinion.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1347	Madam President, I would like We are debating Category 2 Economics and Finance Management. This is of great importance for creating the conditions for a good society and a functioning labour market. The economic policy of the Christian Democrats is based on a social market economy and on the fact that it is in a free market economy that resources can be allocated most effectively and that the economy is growing. But it is not only efficiency that we strive for, but also humanity. That is why the market economy needs to be complemented by a clear social dimension in which governance, solidarity and ethics are given a clearer place in economic policy. A well-functioning market economy requires effective competition, stable institutions and ethical behaviour. When working on financial market legislation and regulation and economic policy, as well as on regulating the market economy, it is particularly important that special consideration should be given to those in vulnerable situations, such as those at risk of over-indebtedness. It is also important that we act vigorously to maintain confidence in financial markets, such as money laundering, and that these institutions are not used for crime and to destroy our common society. State administration and employers' policy must also be conducted in an effective and quality-oriented manner that ensures both competence and that the state sets an example for other organisations and employers. Madam President, I would like In spring 2019, the Christian Democrats together with the Left Party, as we heard from the previous speaker, initiated a committee initiative in the Finance Committee on reinforced work against money laundering. We pointed to this as an international problem that poses a threat to the financial system and to the very serious nature of the extensive and recurrent reports on suspected money laundering in the Swedish banking system. In time, the committee agreed on an announcement. There is now a government investigation that investigates and investigates how Finansinspektionen can best be strengthened to further strengthen the Swedish work against money laundering, and that is very good. In addition, in our budget, we have proposed an increase in ambition with an increase of 20 million annually in addition to the Government's proposal to combat money laundering. Madam President, I would like We see that the service in Sweden needs to improve and reach the whole country. To counter the decline we see in both government and commercial services and strengthen services in rural areas, we are providing more funding from the Christian Democrats. We want to open seven more service offices, so that more people can have access to authorities where they live. We also want to strengthen our efforts to support grocery stores and other things in rural areas. This year has shown us and made us better understand what gives meaning to our lives. We understand that, but we also need to measure and monitor how our country and its citizens are actually doing in a number of respects than in economic terms. Such a quality of life index or work to monitor that development was initiated by the Alliance government and taken forward by the current government. That is very good and welcome. However, in our proposal, we propose that the follow-up should place greater emphasis on good relations. We know how important they are for the quality of life. It is the quality of our relationships that often determines how we view our lives. It has also become apparent during the pandemic, when many of us are forced to give up the very thing that makes life so worth living. We see how loneliness is a major threat to our health, for example. The government's accounts therefore need to be supplemented by more indicators in this particular area. It is also part of the Christian Democratic proposal in Category 2. In addition, we see that more government agencies need to consider establishing themselves in vulnerable areas around our major cities, especially Stockholm, rather than in the inner city of Stockholm. Therefore, we are changing the rent compensation to government agencies in order to promote this type of change. It could also mean a lot to create round-the-clock services in areas where, unfortunately, this type of larger workplace is relatively rare. As the Christian Democrats' draft budget is a whole, we refrain from taking part in the decision on Category 2. But I have here explained the priorities we would have liked to see if Parliament had decided in accordance with our budget option. We have reported a special opinion.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1357	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by wishing everyone at home who is listening to this a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and also the President, the Presidium of Presidents and the Office. It's easy to forget because there's a few days left. But above all, I would like to wish Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to our fantastic colleagues in the committee office, who have had to put up with us during this very strange year and have to do it for a few more days and, who knows, perhaps too many more days depending on how it will be in our committee in the future. You're doing a great job that I'm proud of. I would also like to support the committee's proposal in the report. As previous speakers have said, Category 2 is the social economy and financial management that we are talking about today. It is above all financial market policy as a whole, but also government policy and a number of other activities within the state. It is all about greater financial stability, better consumer protection in the financial market and better accessibility to public services. The state presence throughout the country is a prerequisite for a strong society, and it is good for our democracy and our confidence in public Sweden. Madam President, I would like For many years we worked to get things together in public finances. We were grazed by a deficit that was handed over to us when we took over. During the good years we built up a so-called welfare reserve and finally got a sovereign debt ratio that was the lowest since 1977. We equipped the Swedish economy with muscles to face a possible slowdown in the business cycle. Last year I concluded by saying that there will be risks and that we need to be prepared. It can now be said that 2020 was a difficult year for all of us. During 2020, the world and Sweden have undergone a huge test. Spring was hard. Although restrictions were later lifted both here and elsewhere in the world and we had hopes of a more normal existence after the summer, it was far too early to blow the danger over. The Coronan is now striking our country once again with full force. The Corona crisis has primarily affected the lives and health of many people, but it has also led to a very worrying economic situation. The global economy has at times taken a complete break. Whole industries have seen their revenues disappear. And I know that there are many back home people who have stomach pain and are worried about the future, worried about their jobs and not being able to pay their rent and mortgages. Sweden and the whole world have been in a historically very serious situation for several months. This obviously affects the whole of society. But we can also note something that I am proud of, that the political parties in the Committee on Finance have joined forces, joined forces and made every effort to find as many common solutions as possible. I am very pleased about that, because this is not the case in many other countries of the world, which ultimately goes out on its citizens. We haven't always got along all the way, but I'm thrilled to live in this country. Madam President, I would like There are many nurses, nurses, doctors and many other care workers who have worked for long days to save lives and care for the sick throughout the year. Probably, as it looks right now, they're going to have to do it for a long time to come. They deserve all credit for the work they do. We all bear a great responsibility to help them and do our best not to spread the infection further. In order to further facilitate health care, people have been made to stay at home by, for example, replacing for the withdrawal. Two days ago, I think we were up to just over 1.4 million in this country that has used this opportunity, and that is a good thing. As I said before, the Corona crisis has hit the Swedish economy hard, and it is still very uncertain and difficult to assess what can happen in the future. In the spring, therefore, we acted vigorously and quickly together in the Committee on Finance to support viable companies and thereby try to save as many jobs as possible. We have reduced employers' and self-taxes, introduced strong conversion aid, short-term work and so on. These are historic measures to save jobs and Swedish production capacity. Much of this started in the spring, then it was a small quiet period during the summer, and now we have had to extend and change many efforts. We do not yet know when the crisis is over. We are prepared to act further if the crisis is longer than we all hope for and to steer the various systems in place. Vaccines are certainly in the pipeline, but it will take time before we get to a normal state. No country, not even Sweden, has infinite resources. That is why we should take responsibility for the fact that there is money on the day we get out of this crisis. That day is coming, even if it looks tough right now. Then we must be ready to continue to build a stronger society and revitalise Sweden.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1368	Madam President, I would like It is not every day that we get the chance to discuss the financial market here in the pulpit. It's all the more gratifying when it happens! The functioning of financial markets is crucial. After all, the crisis we are going through is not like 2008 and 2009 a financial market crisis, but a completely different type of crisis. It is gratifying, Madam President, to see that a larger part of the financial market is becoming green. The Swedish green bond market is the sixth largest in the world. The Swedish krona is the fourth most commonly used currency to issue green bonds in. It is a fantastic development that we have had recently, something that I hope can continue. Unfortunately, this trend is now under threat. The EU taxonomy, which aims to set a framework for what green bonds are, is on the table. The financial solutions proposed by the EU are running everything in the ditch. Unfortunately, the government has also sat in the back seat and had the combination slip out towards the roadside. We have a situation where tough energy demands on buildings are at risk of lying in the barrel and where it will be more sustainable to build new ones than to renovate. We have a situation where hydropower, this crown jewel in the Swedish energy system, risks being classified as non-sustainable, although it is a prerequisite for integrating more sun and wind not only into our energy system but throughout northern Europe. It is also contrary to what was included in the Energy Agreement in the Riksdag. We have a situation where the Swedish forestry industry may not be considered sustainable, which is a prerequisite for the entire green transition in everything from more woodhouse building to biofuels. This goes against the whole ambition expressed by this Parliament. Instead, taxonomy says the forest should stand. The idea has stifled me, Madam President, that the responsible minister has been happy to watch while the bioeconomy and hydropower are under threat, especially as the government's own party often makes just the criticism that taxonomy is now laying the foundations for: that the forest should stand and hydropower is partly evil. My fears are not entirely reassured either when the representatives of the government tell us how good they have been in the negotiations, how much they have done and what fantastic talks they have had with the Commission, when this is the outcome. The result on behalf of Sweden can be disastrous. Now it wants the government to reverse its ambitions in the same way as it actually put forward a really good position in the Finance Committee the other day. Now it wants to put all the energy, if you will excuse the expression, to make sure that this will be good, to ensure that we can continue our transformation in Sweden and continue to grow with our green bonds. I am seriously concerned about the government's inability to make taxonomy's regulatory framework reasonable, logical and technologically neutral. I would like to conclude, Madam President, by highlighting something that the government has done well. The Swedish AP funds' fossil-based holdings are now declining steadily. That is something we in the Center Party have been pushing for. It is welcome and a security for the future. It is not just about climate change but also about risk minimisation. Fossil assets are becoming increasingly risky to hold, and our common money, which we manage in the AP funds for this generation and for future generations, must be managed in a responsible manner that ensures that we do not endanger the climate and our own future livelihoods. That's why I'm glad it's moving in the right direction. I hope that we can also see this in more areas where public bureaucracy tends to put an end. Madam President, I would like I hope for a pleasant debate!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1380	Madam President, I would like I have two short, simple questions for Rickard Nordin, because I am not quite sure about this sulfurous speech. The first question is: Does the Center Party think that the government's proposal for a Swedish position on taxonomy was good or bad? The second question is: are there companies in Sweden that will benefit from a common definition of what a green investment is and that it will apply to the whole of Europe?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1383	Madam President, I would like As Karolina Skog heard, I said that the government's position was good. But it is also very late that the government has arrived at this position. This has not been clearly pursued against the Commission. We heard for ourselves, both Karolina Skog and I, in the committee how to be satisfied with this, how to say that this will be good for Swedish companies and that Swedish companies will benefit from this. A regulatory framework that knocks away hydropower, which makes it more expensive to invest in the bioeconomy and which seems to have absolutely terrible consequences for property management cannot be satisfied with. One cannot be satisfied with its negotiating efforts in this way. I think that is completely unreasonable. Here the government has been far too late on the ball, has acted too slow and has not been able to reverse the debate that has obviously not been cared enough about. It has not been possible to explain to Germany that they are completely dependent on Swedish and Norwegian hydropower to cope with their energy transition. Instead, the Commission classes this as untenable. The government's position is good, absolutely, but it is too late. Swedish companies can certainly benefit from this if taxonomics lands well. My counter-question to Karolina Skog will be: Is Karolina Skog satisfied with the current proposal, which the government claims to have worked for and been satisfied with regarding the negotiating effort so far? Does Karolina Skog think that the government's negotiating efforts to this end have been successful? That is what the negotiator himself said in our committee.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1388	Madam President, I would like The enormous thing that has happened here is that the government has received a proposal from the European Commission. Then the government has first read the proposal. Then they have analysed the proposal and taken in the views of different types of industry organisations and companies in Sweden. The Government has then produced a proposal for a position and gone to the Riksdag. You might think this is slow. I think it is a very good order to work on. There were not many days between the Commission's proposal and the fact that there was a complete analysis. I think this needs to be brought to the fore in the discussion. There was also a question whether I am satisfied. As the Government has now presented a proposal to the Committee on Finance on the priorities of the Government in changing the Commission's proposal, it is as well as an answer enough: there is still a lot to be done. I will return to what has been successful.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1392	Madam President, I would like Every successful advocacy work starts before the proposals are presented. If one waits until after proposals have been submitted, the chances are to influence considerably less. The answer given by Karolina Skog, who thinks that the government has acted in the right order, correctly and waited for the proposal to read and think about whether it is good or not, makes me even more concerned about the government's actions. The fact that we have not taken the opportunity to influence the Commission substantially from the outset, not even to point out that we should at least have tried a little more clearly, yes, that makes me worried about the government's ability to negotiate in Brussels. Everyone involved in some kind of advocacy knows that the most important thing is to influence early in the process when proposals are discussed, before the proposals are presented, and not come afterwards when the proposals are already on the table and try to change them then.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1395	Madam President, I would like In the area of financial management and economics, this time I would like to dwell on a specific part. It is a question of abuse of our welfare systems. One suggestion is that we should now introduce a specific target to reduce fraud in the systems. This may sound tedious and bureaucratic, but it is an extremely important and neglected part of the debate on crime in Sweden. We have a debate about gang crime and organised crime in Sweden that has focused on the arteries. There are plenty of proposals on how to frame children who do services in the criminal arteries and how to reduce the mobility of those living in the most vulnerable areas, but in the debate I and the Green Party lack a focus on those at the heart of crime and organised crime: those who earn the money. Our authorities are giving us clear reports that there is a systematic organised abuse of organised crime into our welfare systems. Often you hide behind companies or in other ways when you drain our welfare systems. This is criminal, and it is being systematically worked to stop it, but not clearly enough. What I see is missing is the link between this and organised crime and the fact that crime is about making money. Sweden's strength is our government agencies and our bureaucrats, and today they are not enough used in the crime prevention work and in the work of framing organised crime. Now that we are setting a target for this, it increases the possibility of finding systematics in reducing what is bureaucratically termed cheating, but which in many cases is about crimes when it comes to draining our welfare systems. I think it is good that we systematise this more, because the essence of such work is to find cooperation across government boundaries and across levels in society. There are good examples when this has happened – when municipalities work together with state authorities. I believe that an under-utilised aspect is the licensing authorities and the supervisory authorities, because they have good opportunities to come out and discover problems and start the renewal of abuses of our welfare systems, among other things. Our authorities have, among other things, alerted us about systematic work related to personal assistance. Apart from the fact that it is absolutely appalling for organised crime to be fattened with money, it means that people who actually need help do not get the help they need. There is much to do here, and I am therefore very pleased that Parliament is now given the opportunity to set a target for this area so that we can increase the systematics in the work of stopping cheating in welfare systems. This was an example of what this rather broad political area is about and which I believe should receive more attention in this House. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1402	Madam President, I would like The Swedish social contract is threatened by widespread insecurity and lack of well-being, and many unfortunately feel that they do not get currency for their tax money. The Moderates' budget therefore prioritises what is most important for Sweden. Municipalities and welfare are an important part of this. Larmen from the Swedish local government and regional sector is coming in a fierce stream, despite many years of boom and good tax revenue. The causes are several: demographic changes with a higher proportion of older people and children, more children and young people in need of special measures and not least high costs for integration and livelihood of new arrivals. At the same time, unemployment is increasing. In addition, a government that does not fully manage the state's commitments, but overwhelms the responsibilities of municipalities, for example in terms of security, migration, employment services and infrastructure. It is not always that the municipalities feel that they are fully compensated financially for this. In addition, municipalities are always those who represent basic welfare and who seek to guarantee the security of their inhabitants. It is also the municipalities that are trying to maintain a certain extent of public service when smaller towns are depopulated and urbanisation is moving at a raging rate. And it is the municipalities that are often forced to advance or co-finance infrastructure with their tax revenue, which is actually a state responsibility. In addition, Swedish municipalities and regions are always the last line of defence during severe crises. At the moment, we are busy trying to deal with the serious pandemic in a situation where the support and guidelines from governments and authorities have all too often been both late, unclear and contradictory. Pandemin mainly affects health care and care for the elderly, but also most other activities, not least school and public transport. Madam President, I would like Even before the pandemic, developments were going in the wrong direction. During the year of the Alliance, according to the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, there was a balance between municipal income and costs, despite the financial crisis and recession. But since the turn of the government in 2014, things look different. Now the imbalances are increasing year after year, and more and more municipalities have experienced economic problems despite a number of years of boom and good tax revenues. So it was already before the pandemic. Another thing that hits the local economy hard is unemployment. Prior to the 2014 elections, the current Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, promised that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. In 2014, Sweden was in the twelfth place among the EU countries in terms of unemployment. Today we are in place 22 out of 28 countries, despite the fact that we had a very strong boom up to last year. In 25 out of 27 EU countries, unemployment has decreased since 2014. In only three countries it has increased. And Sweden is the country throughout the EU where unemployment has increased most since 2014. There is cause for great concern. A government that has failed in employment policy during a strong boom has little chance of doing something positive when times get worse. There are now only a few weeks left of 2020. I would therefore like to ask the representatives of the government base what plan they have to quickly improve Sweden's position, since today we are one of the six seven countries in the European Union where unemployment is the highest. Unless progress is reversed, local government's financial problems will grow rapidly, both through reduced tax revenues and through increased costs of supply support. Madam President, I would like The Moderates will always safeguard the ability of municipalities and regions to carry out their mission. This will also require increased resources and must be given priority in the state budget. Already at the beginning of this year, we drove Moderates, together with other parties, through more resources to the municipalities than the government base wanted to provide. These 7.5 extra billions have come in handy during the pandemic. Even during the pandemic, we have pushed for extra support for municipalities and regions, and in our budget for the coming years we also give far more state aid to municipalities than the government and its support parties announce in their budget. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have two important principles in terms of state aid to municipalities and regions. Firstly, we believe that the contributions must be permanent and not temporary. We note that the Konjunkturinstitutet also points out that the contributions to the municipalities should be permanent in order to have an impact on employment and investment. The subsidies received this year have largely saved and have not dared to use, partly because of uncertainty as to whether it can afford to retain any new employees. Moderates permanently increase funding to municipalities by SEK 26 billion per year from 2021. For 2021 it is about 3 1⁄2 billion more than the government, for 2022 it is 8 1⁄2 billion more than the government and for 2023 it is about 13 1⁄2 billion more than what the government and cooperation parties add to their common budget. We Moderates combine this with a regulatory framework that counteracts municipal tax increases that would otherwise impair the recovery after the pandemic. The second important thing is that we have a problem with an excessive proportion of targeted state subsidies. In 2018, Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko himself chaired what was then called SKL, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. In a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet in April 2018, she and SKL's management stated that the targeted state grants were a growing problem. In the article, Sweden's citizens and the Swedish welfare cannot afford to continue with inefficient efforts in the form of targeted state grants. It was suggested that general state subsidies should be the general rule. Unfortunately, the minister responsible does not seem to have taken on board what she herself wrote in 2018. Targeted state grants continue to constitute an excessive part of total state subsidies. On the other hand, the criticism of the excessive proportion of targeted state subsidies is something that we in the Moderates have taken on board in our budget exercise, in which, in addition to adding more money, we also redistribute targeted state subsidies to general ones. In addition to the fact that we Moderates provide significantly greater state aid to the local government sector, we also have a crisis buffer in our budget. It could have been used to further strengthen health care and to push back unemployment next year when the pandemic has again taken off, but unfortunately the government lacks such a buffer. Madam President, I would like The basis for the moderate budget is to prioritise. We streamline and close down government agencies. We are adjusting aid downwards towards the UN's recommended objectives. We say no to pointless building subsidies and ineffective climate policy. We propose a tighter migration policy with qualification for welfare, premium ceilings, abolition of guarantee pensions and limitation of survivors' support for refugees and new arrivals. We are also introducing conditions in the supply aid. All of this gives us the opportunity and space to invest much more in welfare, municipalities, the police and the judiciary. This gives room to reduce taxes on all employees and pensioners, remove the whole difference in taxation between wages and pensions, invest more than the government in real environmental policy and reduce fuel taxes by 1 krona per litre. At the same time, then, we have a significant crisis buffer in our budget, and we are lending less to crisis policy than to the government and support parties. With our moderate policy, there will be more money for prosperity, better crisis management and lower taxes. Madam President, I would like Since Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than the one we Moderates want, we are abstaining from taking a position on appropriations in the various areas of expenditure. The Moderates' budgetary options should be seen as a whole. Instead, we have a special opinion on Moderate policy in Category 25, where we thus bring the local government sector considerably more money than the government does.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1420	Madam President, I would like It sounds very nice to have more resources for the municipalities, but if we look at the Moderates' budget – and Mr Ericson mentioned some of this – we can see that the Moderates want to reintroduce the time limit in health insurance and lower the ceiling and increase the reduction in sickness benefit. The Moderates want to tighten up the qualification for sickness and activity benefit and guarantee pension. The Moderates want to cut the unemployment benefit to 265 days. The Moderates want to introduce a time limit in the activity support, which means that the activity support is replaced after three years by supply support. Earlier this year, the newspaper Work has calculated how many of those receiving social security benefits are on sick leave, and the average for the period between January and August this year was 13 per cent. It is thus 13 per cent that the state is now tipping over to the municipalities. However, in Olofström, for example, half of those who received social assistance were sick. The proposals for changes in the social security systems presented by the Moderates mean that even more costs are passed on to municipalities without them being compensated. The Moderates not only impair the common people, but the Moderates also impair the municipalities by giving with one hand but bring the other.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1422	Madam President, I would like First of all, we are compensating the municipalities with a great deal; I listed how much more money we are spending on the government's budget. This is about 3 1⁄2 billion more than the government next year, 8 1⁄2 billion more 2022 and 13 1⁄2 billion more in 2023. But then you have to look at what is the purpose of the policy, and that is that more people will get to work. We are now seeing how rising unemployment and increasing exclusion in municipalities also impair the municipal economy, so if we get more people to work by making some austerity of the systems, it will also benefit the municipalities financially. More people get jobs. At the same time, as I said, we are adding a lot more money to the municipalities, so if it is the case that any cost increases for the municipalities, they will receive full compensation for it – and much more.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1424	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear that the honourable Member, Mr Ericson, says that the compensation to the municipalities should go to social assistance when more and more people are being insured. The honourable Member also says that there will be more people at work by taking away sick people's livelihoods. I don't understand the logic. In my world, we get people to work by creating more jobs, not by scaring people to work-- by scaring the sick to go to a job they can't do. And what employer will hire a person who is not able to do the job? When it comes to imposing conditions for receiving support – what do the Moderates think that a person who does not qualify for support should live on?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1427	Madam President, I would like First of all, during the alliance years, we showed that tightening up rules in health insurance systems actually did some good. This brought more people back, and it brought more people to work. We also see that insurance has increased dramatically during today's government compared to what it was like during the alliance years. There's a lot more today than there was at the time. In addition, this government has withdrawn some other very important benefits. LSS has been severely reduced and exclusion has increased significantly. Poverty in Sweden has increased sharply during this government. So, if one is to draw any conclusion from the Alliance's policy, it is that the austerity we did in the systems actually brought more people to work. Nor did it increase poverty in the way this government has caused. I therefore find it very difficult to see the problem that Ilona Szatmari Waldau points to.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1429	Madam President, I would like The municipal equalisation system is an absolutely crucial incentive for Sweden's municipalities and regions, which would otherwise have found it difficult to meet their commitment to convey the state's basic mission to citizens – especially at a time when demographic change and rural areas are getting tougher and tougher. What is worrying is that, even before the pandemic, about 80 per cent of the municipalities planned to reduce core activities such as care for the elderly, school and education, due to a lack of balance between income and cost. The loan rate was also high despite a long-term boom. It was worrying in itself, and the reason why the situation is as it is requires an important discussion in the future. This is particularly true in view of the fact that the scheme should be intended to help rural municipalities and that Malmö, as the third largest city, is the largest net beneficiary of the aid. This may say some things about the government's ability to transfer government responsibility to municipalities, such as refugee reception. I would like to quote the SLR Bureau from a debate article in Aftonbladet last year: More than half of the regions and 110 municipalities already expect deficits in this year's results. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has pointed out that in 2026 municipalities and regions would need SEK 90 billion more than today if welfare were to develop in line with the increasing number of older people, children and young people. This is an assessment of Sweden's Municipalities and County Council (SKL) parts. ..................................................... In addition, they wrote, "Don't steal state costs from municipalities." The principle of financing must be respected so that the level that decides on a reform will also pay for it. The state must now stop imposing new tasks on municipalities and regions, which are only partly financed by the state. A number of changes in the Social Services Act and other regulations have broadened the mission of social services, with increased costs for investigations, placements, documentation and follow-up as a result. Even in the reception of unaccompanied minors and young people, we see that the state is stealing over the costs. Since the central government reduced the compensation to municipalities in 2017, the cost overrun has been more than SEK 1 billion. In addition, when an unaccompanied minor is granted Swedish citizenship, all state compensation to the municipalities ends. ..................................................... When the pandemic struck, the situation worsened significantly, and it is therefore of the utmost importance for the state to go in and support the municipalities and regions. But if the bucket has holes in the bottom, it is important to plug them to ensure that the resources are used in the best way. One example of this is the heavy and time-consuming administrative burden. It is an ongoing work that we believe is necessary to meet future challenges. In all business activities that I have worked in, it is important to review unnecessary costs and investments that often take place by routine. It is crucial for developing the business and getting better, especially in times of crisis. One of the proposals that we in the Swedish Democrats see as strengthening for the regions is to regionalise the property tax on industrial properties and electricity generation units. The reason we see it as an important proposal is that the cost of healthcare falls on the regions. Thus, increases in the regional tax risk eliminating both residents and businesses in the region, which is not a desirable development. Hence, the strengthening of the economies of the regions by means of the proposal would be a means, without earmarking, of providing the regions with resources for the challenges, which are, of course, multifaceted when, for example, the provision of skills in health care and local infrastructure should be maintained over time. According to Parliament's investigative service, the proposal would also give revenue to all regions but with a difference between the city and the countryside where the big cities receive lower per capita support, which is, in our view, a desirable distribution. The reform therefore favours the hinterland of Norrland in particular, which has major disadvantages in terms of, for example, large land areas with long distances. The regions are also given an additional incentive to attract long-term investments, with a higher share of the companies' cash flow benefiting the regions. Both municipalities and regions need to continue to streamline their activities and review their priorities and costs. It is inevitable that increased general state aid is needed to avoid large increases in taxes and reductions in staff, which in turn risk leading to a continued slowdown in the economy. The Government's proposal to strengthen the municipal levelling system is a step in the right direction, but it is far from sufficient. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to go forward with additional contributions to the local government sector to meet the challenges faced by municipalities and regions, in order for municipalities and regions to have an opportunity to employ and improve working conditions and for the state to assume its responsibility for the costs associated with the coronapdemine. In addition to increased costs for municipalities and regions in the form of additional staff, protective materials, medicines and more intensive care places, the pandemic has also reduced revenues and halted part of the activity. Even after the pandemic, municipalities and regions will have a great need for staff to deal with, for example, the health debt. The local government sector is also affected by a reduction in the tax base and increased costs of financial assistance as unemployment rises as a result of the pandemic. The economic impact of covid-19 needs to be seen in a wider context, we believe, and not just from the perspective of direct costs. This also applies to state aid to provide a more stable foundation in the long term. In order to provide the municipalities with the opportunity to convey basic welfare and improve the possibilities to establish emergency preparedness, which is a local responsibility, while maintaining a reasonable tax burden, we in the Swedish Democrats want to contribute SEK 30 billion, in addition to the Government's proposal, to the municipal equalisation system for a three-year period. Madam President, I would like We believe that public finances are relatively good and that we should therefore transfer resources from state to municipality and region, while raising the ceiling in the unemployment fund and increasing guarantee pension would mean higher tax revenues. But as I said: In addition to income, all of us who have worked with financial responsibility in the workplace know that costs are central at a time of recession. It requires a greater discussion on how government decisions are to be implemented at local level, which we look forward to taking in this House in the future. But at present we in the Swedish Democrats are keen to abolish the legal requirement for mother tongue teaching, with the exception of national minority languages. In addition, we believe that the third year in upper secondary school for practical lines should be abolished – to take some examples. Moreover, we in the Swedish Democrats do not support the fact that certain subsidies are paid to foreign citizens, nor do we support the fact that illegal immigrants take part in unconditional care, except emergency care. The economic impact of the things I have just listed is difficult to estimate, and therefore it is not included in our budget calculation either. It is clear, however, that this would benefit both the state, the region and the municipality in both the long and short term. This means that we will totally strengthen the local government sector by over 22 billion next year, which we see as necessary. Our figures can be found in detail in our budget under chapter six. However, we refrain from taking part in the decision. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to wish the President's Bureau, other colleagues and citizens a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1450	Madam President, I would like A week ago, we debated the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the equalisation system from a growth perspective. A united parliament decided to call on the government to set up an investigation that reviews the entire municipal financial equalization system. In my speech, I spoke about my birthplace, a place of use that has more than halved its population during my lifetime, a municipality that has many structural difficulties and where more people move out than move in. Many municipalities are in the same situation and can see that those who move in come to the municipality because there are vacant dwellings. They have often been excluded from the labour market for some reason. A popular word for this is social dumping. This means that rich municipalities with few rental apartments help their residents to get rental contracts in municipalities with housing surpluses. In this way, it is also left to the new municipality to take responsibility for social assistance and livelihoods, and the gaps between municipalities are increasing even more. We can't have this. We cannot have a divided Sweden like this. This is why the local government sector needs to be strengthened, and it is the municipalities with the greatest challenges that need the most. We cannot have tax differences of $6, which means that it can distinguish nearly $1,500 a month for those who earn $25,000 depending on where they live. In their financial report, the municipalities and regions of Sweden state that in rural municipalities the average number of inhabitants aged 80 or over is estimated to increase by 33 per cent over the next ten years, while the number of people of working age is reduced by 9 per cent. Who will work in the care of the elderly in those municipalities? During the previous term of office, the Left Party pushed through the so-called just egalitarians, a ten-year multi-billion dollar investment to municipalities with areas characterised by, for example, high unemployment, low education levels and low voting turnout. The focus was on job, education, service, leisure and social activities. At the same time as the differences between municipalities are increasing, the government chose to remove the fair emigrants. The Left Party wants to reintroduce and continue this important effort. In order for smaller municipalities to be able to offer a well-being on equal terms, we also propose special support for smaller municipalities, which evens out the large regional differences in total municipal tax. In sparsely populated regions, healthcare is more expensive. Today, there is an additional rural area in the municipal cost compensation system. We want to use this technology in the structural contribution of the income equalisation system. It will then be an appropriation which is paid out directly and financed entirely by the State, without any other region having to receive a reduction in appropriations. Health care needs to be strengthened even in sparsely populated regions. Madam President, I would like Welfare now faces many major challenges. The Coronapandemia has resulted in a care debt when operations and treatments have been postponed to the future. Municipalities and regions are also facing a huge recruitment need. This requires both major training efforts and significant efforts to increase the attractiveness of the welfare sector. First of all, the Left Party wants to increase general state subsidies substantially so that municipalities and regions can meet the costs of demographic development without having to resort to cuts or tax increases. Municipalities and regions also have major investment needs. We therefore believe that the state should take greater responsibility and contribute to the expansion of important social properties that are necessary for various welfare functions. We want investment aid. Children need good schools, and older people need workable accommodation adapted to their needs. Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the Corona Commission produced an interim report. It identifies several structural and long-known problems. It also made a number of recommendations. We have seen that during this term of office, tax reductions and increased tax deductions have been prioritised by the government and the cooperation parties. The additional contributions to the municipalities decided by the Left Party and the Government on the previous term of office have been removed in favour of the Liberals and the Center Party's tax cuts. Now is the time to renovate care for the elderly so that we can trust the elderly, which is exactly what the Commission states is needed. All people must meet with security, care and dignity. The Left Party is therefore proposing a rearmament package for elderly care. We provide resources to fund staff investments and investments in developing leisure and social activities for the elderly. Madam President, I would like Well-being today suffers from staff shortages that appear to increase over time. We can see, among other things, that many educated teachers are missing. The Left Party therefore proposes an investment in more educational opportunities that combine paid work in welfare with education. With our proposal, 1 000 new seats are financed annually. It has turned out that the model of the combination of work and education has been popular where it was offered and attracted many to the teaching profession. The municipalities and regions are closest to the inhabitants of Sweden and also account for the majority of our welfare, such as school, childcare, elderly care and health care. Last week, a young center partyist wrote a debate article saying that it is justified that the welfare state should fall and that one should instead save up for one's own care. It is a vision that the Left Party does not share. In our Sweden, we share solidarity and solidarity. In our Sweden, we invest in welfare for all and stop cuts and sales of welfare. In our Sweden, schools and care for the elderly have sufficient staff to carry out the task, and those who work in welfare have good working conditions and permanent full-time positions. Therefore, we add over SEK 26 billion more than the Government in 2021 under category 25 in addition to the investments we have in other areas of expenditure. However, since Parliament has already voted in favour of the Government's proposal for a framework budget, we are abstaining from making proposals and are not taking part in the decision. Instead, I refer to our particular opinion.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1468	Madam President, I would like We are discussing the finances of municipalities here, and then it is at hand to also discuss welfare. It is in the primary and secondary municipalities, that is, in municipalities and regions, that much of the well-being that we all need or may need when we are vulnerable, ill or fragile. That activity is extremely important. I am pleased that we Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and other parties, have been pushing for increased contributions to the local government sector during this year. We did so in January through a committee initiative, and we did so in the spring when we demanded additional funding for the local government sector, not least so as not to have to alert staff in the midst of the crisis. It could have had very negative effects if the local government sector had diluted the wave of notice and redundancies that we have seen in the footsteps of the coronapndemin. I am pleased that we were able to push for additional funding for the local government sector. Madam President, I would like We support the government's general contributions to the municipal sector in 2021. That's good. It's a big addition, but it's not enough. We also need to make special efforts that go not least to health care and care. We received the Corona Commission report yesterday, and we can see that the structural problems of care for the elderly, which have been well known long before the pandemic, now need to be tackled and addressed vigorously. Then it is not good enough, as it were, just to ship out money, but also to have reforms and ideas on how to remedy structural deficiencies. That is why we are proposing a major human resources effort aimed at significantly improving the conditions for elderly workers. We need to earmark funds and demand compensation from the municipalities. We need to reduce the number of involuntary shared tours that make it difficult for many to bring together family life and working life, and which put a lot of stress on employees. We need to bring up the satisfaction and influence of the employees, and we need to ensure that managers in the care of the elderly have reasonable management responsibilities. Today, every manager in the care of the elderly has direct employee responsibility for an average of 60 people. We have been pointing this out for a long time and have presented reforms to overcome, but the government has been passive. Of course, it is not good enough for elderly care workers to become more or less managementless, unleaded, when they end up in difficult and vulnerable situations. It is clear that this, too, is an explanation for the high rates of sick leave that were already in the care of the elderly when we entered the pandemic. We also see a strong need to improve staff continuity and make sure that more people want to work in elderly care and that the elderly in need of home care can meet fewer people at home. It also significantly improves the quality of the elderly care that is carried out. We know that the building of relationships between the care provider and the care provider is very important. We spend a total of 4.4 billion more than the government on care for the elderly, and we spend some of that money on increasing medical skills in care for the elderly, adding more nurses, to a medical officer for rehabilitation in each municipality and removing the ban on employing doctors in the municipalities. We also spend more than the government on health care to ensure that when the spread of infection, this acute situation, settles and we start to deal with the health debt, we take all the capacity that exists in Sweden and coordinate it in a good way so that we can ensure that the citizens in need of care can get it no matter where that care is located in our country. Madam President, I would like These are some of the important efforts that we believe must be added to what the government has proposed. More money is good, and additional money is needed, we believe, but there is also a need for strong reforms that will make it easier for municipalities and regions to carry out their health and care tasks in the difficult times that we are now in. For some obscure reason, this House has not voted in favour of the Christian Democratic Financial Perspectives. That is why we are abstaining from requests for Category 25 and are referring to our specific opinion.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1479	Madam President, I would like I'll try to keep my question short so this won't take long. Many young adults stop visiting dental care for preventive purposes when they no longer have access to free dental care, i.e. after they are 19 years of age. Therefore, free dental care was introduced during the last parliamentary term up to 23 years. We from the Left Party want to expand dental care with a really high cost protection, but KD chooses to go to others holding and removing free dental care for everyone between 19 and 23 years to fund other things. I'm thinking about how it improves dental care for young people. It also states in the documents that KD would have more accurate bets. It would be interesting to know which initiatives improve dental care for young people.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1483	Madam President, I would like Above all, we have efforts to get young people to work, so that they can get back to the work community if they have lost their job during the pandemic. That way you get a better economy. Better anchoring in the labour market also offers more opportunities to take part in, among other things, dental care. Nor do we see the extremely strong reason for this group to be favoured over other groups. It is simply a matter of priority. We now spend a great deal of resources, far more than the government, on getting a functioning elderly care in Sweden after the strong criticism that has come and that we have been pointing to for many years. We make great efforts to get a health care that works, to be able to graze the long care queues. In the best of worlds, we would have had money for everything. We don't. Then we have chosen to prioritise down dental care to that particular group to instead spend money on care for the elderly, on medical care for the sick, on bringing down the crime that affects so many people in Sweden and on creating more jobs, which comes not least to that group.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1486	Madam President, I would like The Left Party also adds more resources to municipalities and health care than the government and the Christian Democrats do. Nevertheless, we can introduce a high cost protection of SEK 2 000 for everyone, that is, a large reduction. Free dental care up to 23 years is also an important issue. While Jakob Forssmed says that they arrange for more young people to get jobs, there are already many who are significantly older than 23 years of age who cannot afford to go to the dentist because they have low wages. The question is what happens to youth wages and entry wages. Perhaps it is not primarily the Christian Democrats who are pushing those questions, but other bourgeois parties are. I must admit that I am not fully aware of the Christian Democrats' policy on this issue. But I don't think they're running high entry wages for young people.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1489	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mr Waldau. Read about Christian Democrats' politics! You may be surprised and convinced of its excellence. What do I know? In the world of the Left Party, you don't have to give priority. There are resources for everything. You tax a little as you want, without thinking about the effects it has on jobs and entrepreneurship. Of course, you can also afford most of it. You can afford high wages and expenses for everyone and everything. We're prioritising things differently. To also say something about vulnerable groups, we prioritise increased housing allowance, increased guarantee provision in sickness and activity benefits, for example, so that they also get a tax relief. It makes it easier for the victims to also afford dental care.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1493	Madam President, I would like I chose to become a socionomist because I wanted to make a difference for people. When I started my first practice, I realized that in order to also be able to make a difference in people's conditions, I wanted to engage politically. The choice was obvious. It was the Social Democracy that was in place, precisely because an equal welfare that benefits everyone is at the heart of a social democratic society. Good and equal conditions for municipalities and regions are being discussed here today. That is also what lays the foundation for prosperity throughout the country. In Sweden it is municipalities and regions that are responsible for welfare, for the welfare services we depend on through life: school, health care and care. Welfare is financed through various sources. The majority of the taxes are municipal and county councils. But state subsidies are also important. In the year that we are about to put behind us, the coronapendem has challenged the whole of society. In particular, municipalities and regions have had to stand in the front line and change at a very fast pace. They have cared for the sick, protected the elderly and risk groups from becoming infected, managed all the anxiety and stress that citizens and staff have felt and planned for learning at a distance. From the government's side, the message has been clear: money cannot, does not and should not stand in the way of protecting life and health. Municipalities and regions have received historical contributions to compensate for the tax loss and to support important activities. According to SKR, the state subsidies have provided the local government sector with good economic conditions to manage the pandemic with economic security. It is difficult to say today how serious and long-lasting the consequences will be for the local government sector. But the government is closely following developments. Madam President, I would like The local government sector already faced major challenges before the pandemic. Above all, the population is getting older at the same time as more and more children are born. I'm glad we're getting older. This is the result of a long-term welfare policy. But it is also a challenge. The increase in the proportion of young and older people in relation to the proportion of those in gainful employment makes the tax base more difficult. Many efforts will be required, including support, from the state. The differences between municipalities and regions are also significant. That is why it was important to strengthen the cost compensation that was implemented by the decision a year ago. More attention is now being paid to sparseness and socio-economic factors, such as levels of education and income. The decision taken a week ago in this House on a broad review of the municipal economic equalisation system can mean a great deal. It was also good that the decision was taken by a united committee. We must ensure that the levelling-up system can provide municipalities and regions with a level playing field regardless of fiscal power and impracticable structural factors, as it is said. It is crucial for a well-developed welfare that benefits all the citizens of the country. Precisely because some municipalities face considerably tougher challenges than others, there is still reason to help those with the greatest challenges. There is therefore a proposal to set up a municipal delegation. Madam President, I would like Municipal self-government, municipal responsibility for welfare activities and municipal tax law are important parts of the Swedish decentralised social model. It is good that municipalities and regions have the freedom and responsibility, within the framework of existing legislation, to design their own activities. Then we also need to continue to increase the general state subsidies, which allow us to adapt to local and regional needs. We need to meet the challenges of the future together – the state, the municipalities and the regions. We need to strengthen trust in our common, so that people dare to believe in a future and a more secure society. When you listen to this debate, you might think that everyone wants to invest in welfare. The Moderates were also clear that they feel that they are investing more than the government does. Then you have only counted plus and not minus. If you do, it's not a big bet. The government has this year come with a historic budget for welfare and to work Sweden out of the crisis. Today's proposal represents an increase of EUR 27.7 billion compared to 2019. And we now come with more money to strengthen school, equip elderly care and, in other words, strengthen welfare in the future. These are important contributions to securing the local government sector, delivering welfare and combating tax loss. It is also good job policy. There is no need for fewer employees in welfare. We're gonna need more. Now we will continue to stand up for welfare and an equal society where all municipalities and regions have the opportunity to offer their residents a good school, care and care and where all people have equal opportunities to create a good life. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1508	Madam President, I would like Eva Lindh says that the Social Democrats stand for equal welfare and that it is important to have strong confidence in welfare. Then it may be interesting to come up with the facts. What's it look like? What has happened since 2014? As I said, unemployment has thus increased most in Sweden of all countries across the EU. Excretion and poverty have increased during your reign, despite a strong boom. Insurance from the health insurance system has increased significantly due to the government's mission to Försäkringskassan to reduce sickness rates at all costs. And the government has withdrawn support for the most vulnerable, even the most ill children, through the deterioration of the LSS. Is this really what Eva Lindh and the Social Democrats think is equal welfare? Can Eva Lindh really be satisfied with this? I explained in my speech that the Moderates were already contributing at the beginning of this year to an extra 71⁄2 billion in the municipal sector in state subsidies compared to what the government base wanted to add. As Jakob Forssmed announced, we also gave more money in the crisis packages. And the Moderates thus give considerably more money to the municipal sector in 2021, 2022 and 2023. I would like to ask Eva Lindh why the government does not believe that the local government sector needs this money and why the government base believes that everything else is more important than investing in the municipalities and regions. Not least the ongoing pandemic clearly shows that more resources are needed for both health care and care for the elderly, but the government's priorities are different. I simply wonder why.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1513	Madam President, I would like We had over 100 000 more employees in the welfare of the previous parliamentary term. Children's groups have decreased. At school, we had 31 000 more employees, and school results are turning upwards. These are some examples of the efforts we made in the past on welfare. So far this year, welfare has received 70 billion, and in 2021 it will be 53 billion more. These are big bets. We put welfare first. People can be sure of that. However, I would like to return to what Jan Ericson said: that the Moderates are strengthening welfare. But if you count plus and minus in your budget, Jan Ericson, you don't end up on the plus, but on the minus. Jan Ericson is not talking about this. You have to rule out the state subsidies you're taking away, and then it's going to be minus. I wonder why you, Jan Ericson, don't tell me this.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1516	Madam President, I would like It is typical from the Social Democratic side to try to trix a little with the figures, a little as you do with the unemployment figures. A new form of labour market action is being devised and called an extra service, and then it is suddenly announced that the people who are in that labour market measure are to be counted as employed. This is how you get statistics on how many people are in work, even though this is actually a labour market measure. That's how you work when you count numbers and statistics. The figures I give here are the additions we make to the local government sector – what we add net. If Eva Lindh thinks we have made some major savings in the local government sector, she can tell us what it is. You can't just come up with this so sweeping. I stand by what I say: rising unemployment, increasing exclusion, increased insurance, savings on LSS and less money for the local government sector. I still have no answer as to why the government is making these priorities.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1519	Madam President, I would like We have done a great deal in terms of employment policy, and more people have become employed. We have therefore invested heavily in this. But the Moderates say you bet more. You don't. In addition, give with one hand and take with the other. While you, Jan Ericson, are raising this with health insurance, you want to make them worse. The stemstock shall be inserted. You do not agree to the increase in unemployment benefit, and you remove other things, which means increased costs for the local government sector, for example when people need support instead. On the one hand, you do not have any more efforts, and on the other hand, the things you propose are going to worsen the local government sector, especially for those municipalities that are already having a difficult time.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1521	Madam President, I would like When talking about general grants to municipalities in 2020, you can't start with anything other than the coronan and the pandemic. The pandemic has really left its mark on the municipalities and the local government sector and has affected everything. It is clear that there has been an extreme burden on the municipal and regional sides with the increased spread of infection and everything that has followed. After all, the role of the Center Party in this parliamentary term is to negotiate with the government and with the Liberals. We are quite proud that we have actually negotiated 12 amending budgets, which have given a great deal of money. Almost all of them have involved the local government sector in some form. With regard to the final result, one can be clear and say that we have even overcompensated the local government sector by 2020. In fact, too much money has been spent in this situation. But there are, of course, problems ahead. What I think is positive about the pandemic, if there is anything, is that it has opened the eyes of the public debate to what is important and what is not. I think that we are getting a little back to the ground when it comes to what a welfare society is all about, namely that what is important is that we have health and a decent economic development. The second is a lower priority. I think the pandemic has taught us this again – I am quite pleased with that. I am also proud that we have been involved in negotiating the 2021 budget, where we make record contributions of well over 20 billion– 20 billion in general contributions and some other contributions. Before that we had added 12 1⁄2 billion in permanent increases. These are extremely large sums that we have never actually given on a board before. The pandemic has certainly made us come up in these speeches, and we are right to agree that the investments are needed. I will also highlight three major challenges for the local government sector that I see in the future. The investments we make in 2021 do not mean that we are in goal. There are three clear challenges. The first is, I think, the long-term economy. The economy is in port by 2020, and in 2021 it looks perfectly good for the local government sector. But then it gets tough. SKR's forecasts show that tax base growth is decreasing with the recession we are experiencing. The pandemic will probably reinforce that trend. So the economy is a challenge. The second challenge is also clear; it is demographic, i.e. population composition. We have more children and young people and more older people in the population but fewer in the middle, in the working-age population. Forecasts from Sweden's Municipalities and Regions indicate that the need for well-being, mainly elderly care and healthcare, over a ten-year period will increase by 1 percent per year, in addition to normal growth. This means 10 percent more than normal cost increase. It will have very big consequences and will in practice bring a very large number. The third challenge, which has become clear to me over the last two years and which I think we have talked a little too little about, is the lack of staff. The supply of personnel will be a huge challenge for the entire Swedish labour market for probably 25 years ahead, and this will affect municipalities very hard and clearly. I have my roots on Gotland. There we have just had a new variant of school debate when we discussed school closures. This time it is not money or lack of students that has been the focus, but the lack of staff. I believe that we will have such debates in the future. I and the Center Party see that we need to increase the level of training on paid working hours in the local government sector, because it is one of the weapons to be attractive as an employer. I am very pleased with the new main agreement that is now coming into place. The least talked about is the conversion allowance, or the student benefit system, which will be available with 44 weeks of student support for those who have been with a kind in the world of work. I think that will be extremely important in order to meet the skills challenge in the future. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has made itself known as perhaps the main opponent of targeted state subsidies. I think we should highlight the trend break that I see. There has actually been a shift in systems in 2020. Now there will be more general state subsidies, or what we call whimsical contributions, which will be distributed according to a distribution key. There will be no more targeted state subsidies, but we have moved away from that system. It is true that, for historical reasons, perhaps 200 targeted state subsidies remain, but I see that there is a whole new system of thinking on the way. The basis is that targeted state subsidies drive huge administrative costs, counteract efficiency improvements and tie local decision-making. Here I think there has been a swing for the better, which I am very happy about. The Center Party really believes in the decentralised model of society, which places responsibility for decisions close to man. I think it's fundamental. We do not believe in increased nationalisation, even if that is what the debate is moving towards right now, when the problems are clear. On the other hand, we definitely believe in increased public responsibility for funding. I have to say a few words about what has happened about the municipal tax equalisation. The Center Party has launched a motion which has suddenly gained a majority in the Committee on Finance and in this House. It is a question of a major overhaul of the entire municipal tax equalisation system. I find it very pleasing, and I feel it as a victory. The world is spinning at a faster pace, and the tax equalization system that exists is becoming obsolete pretty fast. The Center Party believes that the starting point of the municipal tax equalisation system should be quite simple: It should be possible to have equivalent service no matter where you live in the country. We have three basic things that we will focus on in the upcoming investigation. The first is a guaranteed level of service in the country. The second is that we create a system with more incentives for entrepreneurship, jobs and growth, so that this becomes profitable. The third is to upgrade the sparse factor in the system. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-2XvbLBxS1L3DGuwByw25hP	Madam President, I would like Members! I support the committee's proposal. This is a miserable year. The Corona crisis is terrible, and it is most evident in welfare. It is noticeable for all those who go to work – for those who work in preschool, meet snotty children and feel that it does not feel good in the stomach, for those who are teachers, go to school and at times are in environments where there are students who suffer from corona and, of course, for those who work in healthcare and care for the elderly, who are very much affected by the Corona crisis and Corona. Of course, it is also visible to the people who get the disease and the people who have suffered from it. Madam President, I would like Recently, I think it has become clear that care for the elderly needs to become more the focus of the political debate. For far too many years, politicians from the national level have felt that this is something the municipalities are allowed to do. The result is very clear: lack of national governance and lack of national responsibility. During the corona, the consequences have been devastating. In Skåne, where I live, CDS Skåne together with regional politicians made a decision early this spring to close elderly homes for visits, long before the Swedish Public Health Agency made the same recommendation and long before most other regions in Sweden made the same decision. It was the right decision by decision-makers in Skåne. But it shows the absurdity that we have such shared responsibility and that the state has abdicated itself from its role of taking full responsibility for this. Madam President, I would like At school, great efforts are being made. The future of our children and what they learn in school determine how Sweden will fare in 15 to 20 years' time. Learning to read, count and write is the basis for getting a job further up the age bracket. That is why incredible efforts are being made. The contributions that are now being made to the entire local and regional sector are crucial for us to be able to ensure that people keep their jobs, but also that welfare is of very high quality. I would like to stress, not least, the importance of pre-school education for all those children who are able to enter early into social interaction and learn things and who are getting early on the efforts of society that we know are so important. Madam President, I would like The third thing I want to mention is the care and all the people who work there. They see the consequences of the Corona and struggle every day to make sure that the care works. We see that you get on your knees and really fight. It is for them that we spend this money to make the welfare work when the welfare needs to work at its best. For this to be possible, we need to establish that it is about the jobs, the jobs and the jobs. What finances welfare is that people get up in the morning, go to work, do a job and work, and that tax revenue comes in. The hiring and running of small businesses, or for that matter large companies, is what builds jobs and builds our common well-being. It's the base of everything. Madam President, I would like I believe that in the coming years we will see a major debate and an increased need for the state to take greater responsibility for welfare. The regional differences we see in our elongated country mean that the conditions for doing well are very different depending on where you live in the country. It's not supposed to be like that. The state will have to take greater responsibility. The huge cost challenges we face as we grow older will also mean that the state needs to take greater responsibility to generate welfare that works throughout our country. This is important for Sweden. It is important for Swedish citizens that they feel that welfare exists when they need it. Our welfare society is something we should be proud of. For that to work, we must always stand up for the jobs, jobs and jobs.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1542	Madam President, I would like It's been an exhausting year to go through. The greatest burden has been placed on those who are toiling in care and care – of course, in addition to those who have suffered from Corona. Therefore, it has been a matter of course during the year to provide large additional funds to the municipalities and regions, so that they receive support to manage the direct work on the pandemic but also to provide the conditions for welfare work in general. It is equally obvious to make large contributions to municipalities and regions for next year. I'm glad we agree on this in Parliament. We need to get back to that, because the needs of welfare will not be reduced as the population grows older. The shortcomings in the care of the elderly in particular that the crisis has exposed only need to be corrected. We cannot accept this situation anymore. It is above all shortcomings in human resources policy that obviously affect the quality of the elderly. This is totally unacceptable, and it needs to be addressed further. When we have contributed very large funds to the municipalities this year, it has been given that the municipalities could be active. Of course they have been. But I, for my part, find it somewhat provocative that so many municipalities are now planning a surplus in a crisis year. I get reports from my fellow party members who work in opposition in many municipalities. They make suggestions as to what can be done with means to support, for example, associations, cultural life or why not give extra money to the employees in the home service, but they get to call the hand. That is why I would like to highlight Gällivare who recently presented a package. They saw that the municipality was going with a large deficit. Then they took a grip and have now decided late in the year on extra additions to associations, among other things, but also an extra bonus to the hourly employees in the care. I think this is an exemplary leadership that is unfortunately lacking in other municipalities. I would therefore urge municipalities: the year is not over. You have the opportunity to make contributions in the municipality and support associations, for example. You haven't lost that chance yet. Looking ahead, several speakers have raised an essential issue. This is the difference between different municipalities in the conditions to deliver welfare and basic service in different parts of the country. This is an extremely important issue that we need to address. We cannot accept that the differences in municipal tax rates are as large as they are in Sweden. It is not sustainable in the long term. It needs to be addressed. We will set up an investigation to look at this. Perhaps we should not wait for that investigation, but instead act, including through state aid. We will also look at the division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality. One thing that the Green Party would like to strengthen is the state responsibility for financing the establishment in full. It would be a structural change that would strengthen the service and welfare of the whole country. Madam President, I would like I would like to raise another discussion about relations between different municipalities, which has been brought up to date by a report from Statskontoret. This is about social dumping. It's a little rough word but actually a correct term for a phenomenon that unfortunately seems to grow in Sweden. These are municipalities that deliberately and strategically get rid of citizens that they simply do not want in their municipality. It's about citizens that they seem to think cost too much. It is cynical and strategic work in which, contrary to the intentions of the Social Services Act, they make it conditional, for example, on providing support to people seeking housing in other municipalities. This affects addicts. It also affects new arrivals, for example, where the mandatory rules of the residence law have reached an end. This is something that I intend not to let go of. We cannot allow that to continue. It undermines the shared responsibility for welfare throughout the country. The Riksdag needs to take this seriously and come back to it. The most important thing, however, is what I started by saying. There is a clear common picture in the Riksdag of the increased needs of municipalities and regions. It is about the need for more staff in health care, care and school. It is about quality in those parts, but also about the need to invest forward and for a green transition. It is also a work done in municipalities and regions. We are fundamentally in agreement that it needs to be strengthened. I dare say that this is not the last time that we adopt a budget in which we increase funds for municipalities and regions. We will have to do that several times in the future. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1558	Madam President, I would like It was very interesting with the criticism from Karolina Skog against municipalities that save money on high instead of hiring more people in their business. I also mentioned that in my speech. The problem is that the government does not give any clear information to the municipalities about what will happen in 2022 and 2023. The municipalities do not dare to take on permanent expenditure that runs over the years but save money on high instead of hiring more people. That is precisely why, on the moderate side, we are giving clear information about increased permanent state subsidies also in 2022 and 2023, which the government does not do. It is the Green Party and the government of which the Green Party is part that creates that problem by providing unclear information about what will happen in the future. I can start by asking Karolina Skog: Can Karolina Skog promise that the municipalities will receive these state grants in 2022 and 2023 so that they dare to hire more people in care for the elderly and in health care in the near future? If they do not get that information from the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the cooperation parties, they will continue to collect the money on high and not dare to hire people. Hiring people is a commitment. It is something that you do not just withdraw by saying: We only got money for this year. Good-bye, now you're done. You can't handle your staff like that. I would like to hear whether Karolina Skog can make a promise now in the speaker's chair that the municipalities will receive at least the grants that they have received this year and that the Moderates are proposing for 2022 and 2023. We propose 8 1⁄2 billion more for 2022 and 13 1⁄2 billion more for 2023. Does Karolina Skog promise you'll match it?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1565	Madam President, I would like The government and the cooperation parties have done two things during this crisis year. It has been about emergency aid to municipalities and regions to deal with the direct pandemic. But it is also extra money to be able to act, for example, to stimulate the local economy and do things that are responsible for in municipalities. We have announced strong permanent increases in the state contribution to municipalities and regions. As I have said before, the Moderates are trying to make it sound like they are making much more powerful bets. However, as has been said here before, a budget consists of plus and minus. The picture is not as simple as the honourable Member Ericson is trying to make it sound like here. What I am talking about is what municipalities are doing with the extra money they have received this year. There are a lot of people who use the apology that Mr Ericson says. We have said that we are giving extra money for this year for crisis support to act here and now. There are many municipalities, especially many bourgeois-led and moderate-led municipalities, which have not done so. They would rather spend money on the results than use them, for example, to support associations or entrepreneurs here and this year. I'm sorry about that. That's a lack of leadership, I dare say. I've put forward a lot of municipal budgets. I know that, just as the Riksdag has been innovative and creative, you can also be at local level. As I said, there are examples where you do it. It happens to be the only municipality with a green chairman on the municipal board who shows that kind of creativity and innovative packages.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1570	Madam President, I would like I think Karolina Skog will have to do some reading on how the Swedish municipalities handle this money. I can say that in my municipality of residence, Mark's municipality, and also in the municipalities around you, you give bonuses to your staff. Both my wife and my daughter work in the county, and they both get bonuses this Christmas. Region Västra Götaland does the same; you give a bonus of SEK 1 500 to each employee. So certainly this occurs in more places than in Karolina Skog's example municipality. As far as crisis aid is concerned, we moderates are fully behind it, and we have also been involved in pushing for it to be as good as possible. It is the same with the support that we, together with the Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, pushed through last spring at 71⁄2 billion. The problem is that Karolina Skog says that the extra support for this year is not used to hire more people. Like I said, you can't do that. You can't use temporary money to hire staff. That's why you have to tell me what's going to happen next year, and you don't. It's boring.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1574	Madam President, I would like Mr Ericson does not listen to what I say, but puts words in my mouth. I'm talking about two different things. There is a need for long-term increased state subsidies to municipalities and regions. The government has also begun work to convert targeted state grants into general grants. It is a promise we have made, and it is a work that is going on. We'll bite it off. We have begun this process, and we will continue with it in dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. It is another discussion of what is happening locally with the crisis support available. I know that there are several municipalities and regions that do this where the Green Party is in charge, including in Västra Götaland. But there are also many examples where you choose to put the crisis money on top of your profit and loss account, and I regret that.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1577	Madam President, I would like Quite exactly a year ago, I stood in this speaker's chair and debated last year's budget decision on the EU levy. I then expressed my concern and that of the Moderates for a sharp increase in the EU levy in the coming years. At that time, we did not know that there would not only be a sharp increase in Swedish contributions in 2021, but we would also be forced to participate in a comprehensive so-called recovery fund where we will put future generations into debt with borrowed funds in order to provide subsidies to European countries that have been mismanaging their economy for many years. The issue of the Swedish EU levy in the EU's future long-term budget has been discussed many times in both the Finance Committee and the EU Board, and I have been involved in most of these deliberations. On several occasions I and my moderate colleagues have asked for greater clarity from Swedish ministers and from the Prime Minister. On the contrary, however, we have seen an increasingly worrying picture in which representatives of the government, including the Prime Minister, have sometimes sounded a little well-described and signalled weakness to those EU countries that are pushing for a larger budget. It has been more or less clearly signalled that Sweden is unlikely to be able to negotiate a solution that is favourable to Sweden without, in practice, having to prepare for a substantial increase in the fee. From a moderate point of view, this is an unfortunate way of negotiating. One cannot back down into a negotiation but must be clear with one's line. Unfortunately, the negotiations did not go Sweden's way either. Although we were allowed to keep Swedish discounts on the EU levy, the fee is still increasing by a whole 16% – although an EU country is leaving the Union and the budget should therefore rather be reduced. And on top of it all, the future cost of the previously mentioned recovery fund is added. On the moderate side, we are disappointed by the outcome of the budgetary negotiations and, furthermore, are very critical of the European Recovery Fund, which was even bigger and more expensive than we feared. What are Sweden's costs for the EU per year to come? We were informed by the Minister of Finance at the meeting of the EU Board on 27 November. The usual long-term budget for 2021 – 2027 means that Sweden's annual fee rises from just under 39 billion per year to nearly 45 billion per year, an increase of 16 percent. Then the negotiated Swedish discounts on the fee are deducted. In the case of the so-called "Recovery Fund", the Next Generation EU, it is outside the EU's long-term budget. The full amount of this fund will be raised by the EU with the Member States as guarantors. The money is then distributed as grants and loans to the Member States, but mostly to southern and eastern Europe. The EU is postponing costs, and Member States are to start repaying the loan only in 2028 and continue for 30 years until 2058. For Sweden, the cost in today's monetary value is an extra 4.9 billion per year over these 30 years, or a total of 147 billion. And as usual, we are big net contributors; we pay a lot more than we get back. The paradox is that the EU has decided to call this debt on future generations for today's spending on the Next Generation EU. But the next generation inherited from us is the debt, which is to be repaid starting in 2028 and then 30 years later. Few of today's leading politicians will have to take responsibility for what happens from 2028 to 2058, and it is very practical to use money today that someone else will have to pay in the future. Just as strange is the use of the pandemic as an argument for borrowing this gigantic recovery fund. The money is not distributed at all according to the damage the pandemic has caused each country. Sweden has been hit harder than many other countries and has also among the higher death rates per capita in the EU. Nor do we seem economically to have fared much better than others. Despite this, we receive a very small share of the fund, and other countries that have suffered less from the pandemic receive much more. Madam President, I would like As the EU budget grows too much and the huge recovery fund is on top, the EU will have a total balance of approximately SEK 18 000 billion for the next budget period, 2021 – 2027. It's a huge amount of money. With such a large budget, it is of course particularly important to combat errors, cheating and corruption, and there the EU Court of Auditors has an important role to play. The latest review criticises the fact that the errors and deficiencies unfortunately increased in 2019. At the meeting of the EU Board on 27 November, I presented to the Minister for Finance the call for a sharper wording of Sweden's position on this criticism. We thought the government text was far too cautious and wanted to sharpen it properly. I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Finance agreed to our proposal for a sharper wording. Sweden is a major net contributor to the EU, and the new budget and the additional recovery fund mean that the EU has more of our Swedish tax money than ever before. It is even more important that money does not disappear through negligence or, at worst, through cheating or corruption. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government has obvious problems in taking full advantage of Sweden's interests in the EU. This applies not only to the EU levy and the failure of the recovery fund, but also to other areas. One example is the EU proposal on minimum wages. Another is the threatening proposal on taxonomy, which we are currently dealing with in the Finance Committee and which threatens to hit hard on Swedish business, Swedish jobs and Swedish energy supply. On point after point, it turns out that the Swedish Government cannot resist strong forces in the EU that push for decisions that disadvantage Sweden. For us Moderates, who are fundamentally in favour of Swedish EU membership, it is worrying that the Swedish Government is not doing better. The Swedish people's support for EU membership is threatened by an extension. It is important that the government clearly prioritises EU issues and ensures that ministers get into the discussions early on in the processes and do not let the negotiations be conducted entirely by officials. Madam President, I would like Within the EU, there are now strong voices in favour of introducing what can in practice be called pure EU taxes. From the Swedish side, a large majority of the parties are against this. It will be extremely important for Sweden to try to bring together a majority of EU countries against these proposals. This must not be another issue in which Sweden is folding down. Tax decisions must be taken in agreement, and the Swedish Government must demonstrate clearly and at an early stage that we will not accept giving the EU tax rights, either directly or indirectly. There must be no doubt whatsoever that Sweden will say no to any attempt to grant the EU direct or indirect tax rights or to find other new creative sources of revenue that take money from EU citizens. Madam President, I would like Since the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on appropriations in various areas of expenditure. We are therefore not taking part in the decision on Category 27 and the Swedish EU levy, and instead attach a separate opinion. Madam President, I would like I am now in my 15th year as a member of the Swedish Parliament, and what we have experienced this year is like nothing we have experienced before. In particular, I would like to thank colleagues and officials in the Committee on Finance and the European Council for their pleasant atmosphere, good mood and good creativity in dealing with all practical problems. We have all seen how we are at home at our Skype meetings – everything from my dog interrupting the Prime Minister from Brussels to people having been seen spilling coffee cups on the computer and some other small things. We've had a good insight into each other's privacy. I now wish the President, the officials of the House and the officials of the committee a really nice Christmas leave, of course, in accordance with the current recommendations of the Public Health Authority!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1600	Madam President, I would like Last year's debate on the EU levy was largely about the long-term budget for 2021 – 2027. Most of the parties here in the Riksdag agreed at the time that Sweden's cost would not increase during the next budget period. It was – and is – a low level of ambition. We in the Swedish Democrats for their part wanted and want to reduce Sweden's EU costs and see a slim union where power and obligations lie with the Member States. We have therefore opposed the size of the long-term budget and, of course, said no to the recovery fund. Last week the long-term budget and a huge recovery package were agreed. What Sweden's cost is cannot be predicted in advance, but the forecast is that our cost for the EU fee itself during the future long-term budget will be around SEK 45 billion per year. To put it in proportion, that is more than what the government is investing in the security of our old, that is, Category 11. To this cost will be added our part of the recovery fund. The government constantly repeats that Sweden never received as large discounts as we now have on the future long-term budget. That's good. But despite discounts, Swedes have the highest fee per inhabitant net, i.e. after counting the fees less the grants paid. Nor are we the only country to benefit from a rebate on the EU levy; for example, Germany receives large discounts on the levy. Another kind of discount that we rarely talk about in Sweden is the extra agricultural aid that 14 EU countries receive. This distorts competition for our farmers. France receives enormous aid, followed by countries such as Germany, Spain and Italy. In addition to special agricultural aid, large parts of the EU budget are allocated to agriculture. Today it is so bad that every EUR 3 in the budget goes to agricultural aid. In the best of worlds it is seen that this huge support goes to sustainable agriculture and farmers who really care for good animal husbandry. But this is not the case – France, Italy and Spain have become accustomed to the large subsidies and are putting an end to a new agricultural policy. The result is that the largest agricultural aid is given to the industrial giants and not to family farms – 80% of the aid goes to 20% of the producers. A modern, reduced EU budget – and thus a reduced EU levy – can only happen if all Member States realise that the path we have taken is unsustainable. Madam President, I would like The world was hit by Corona at the beginning of March this year, and there we are still. From the point of view of budgetary restraint as absolutely necessary in Sweden, we have made a patchwork. Now we are increasing our public debt, which at this point is necessary. However, it is difficult to see why today's Swedes and, above all, our children should bear the costs of mismanaged economies in the EU. I am talking about the EU's huge recovery fund, the Next Generation Europe. It has become clear here that some countries, such as large countries such as Spain and Italy, consider themselves entitled to the tax revenue of well-managed industrialised countries. Or worse: for them, it goes without saying that we should increase our public debt to finance their mismanaged public finances. The EU's long-term budget is linked to NGEU, which is why Sweden's costs do not stop at the annual fee to be decided on today. NGEU is an undertaking to be repaid from 2028 to 2058. This is a crisis package of small unreal SEK 8 000 billion in addition to the regular long-term budget. The government and most parliamentary parties have approved the NGEU and thus our financial commitment. In the spring, however, there were quite a few other points of order during briefings with the Committee on Finance and the EU Board. The government was then clear that it felt that the NGEU was not doing the right thing in terms of which countries would receive the most funding. The aim of the Recovery Fund is to support the countries most affected by the pandemic, but the countries that will receive the most support are countries that, even before the Corona, were drawn with mismanaged public finances. Criticism has also highlighted that the NGEU is largely about saving the euro, which, of course, is something that Sweden should not participate in. Finally, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Vice-President and all the members of the committee a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1612	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation that the EU's long-term budget should be negotiated. We believe that less money should be spent on military, border policy and climate-damaging agriculture in favour of recovery policy through social investment, green transition and modern infrastructure. Last spring, the European Commission presented a proposal for an Economic Recovery Fund for Member States affected by the Coronapdemine. The fund contained EUR 750 billion, almost SEK 8 000 billion, and the Commission's proposal meant that one third of the money would be lent while the rest would be given as a grant. The Left Party argued that the fund should be a matter for the euro area countries and not for all Member States. The countries that said 'no' to monetary cooperation in EMU should be excluded. The Left Party is fundamentally in favour of cooperation and solidarity between the Member States, but we are very critical of the outcome of the negotiations on the Recovery Fund. The other Member States did, of course, meet Sweden when it came to the fact that it would be a larger part of the loan – it became a larger proportion of the fund that became a loan, but not by converting grants into loans but by increasing the loan part. Important programmes such as the environment and research were reduced to allow Member States to borrow more from the Recovery Fund. These are loans that they probably won't be looking for because the grants are so large and generous. What Sweden achieved with its negotiations was thus unchanged grants and reduced support for the environment and research, which is something that Sweden should not have said yes to. We believe that the cost for Sweden is too high. We are also concerned that several EU countries will get stuck in debt with demands for austerity policies. During the euro crisis, we saw several examples of how the EU, among other things, forced countries to privatise, reduce labour law and use tax money to save banks instead of investing in welfare. Instead of an EU-level recovery fund, the Left Party sees other options to help countries in crisis. Already heavily indebted countries should not, in fact, be further indebted. In order to make it easier for Member States to recover their economies after the coronapandemy, Sweden at EU level should promote debt write-downs rather than increased loans. One of the results of the agreement reached by the Heads of State or Government in July was on watered down wordings on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. When several countries within the EU are moving in an increasingly authoritarian and undemocratic direction, the possibility of making democratic demands in the common budget is one of the few tools we have to influence. Thanks to Parliament, the wording was tightened up and autumn has been used to get all states to agree to the amendments to the so-called conditionality regulation. However, in order to get all countries to say yes, a statement has been adopted which will allow these countries to continue to delay the introduction of conditionality and respect the principles of the rule of law in order for them to benefit from EU aid funds. It is still unclear whether they will be recovered, as the Prime Minister claims. In order to strengthen the work for democracy, the rule of law and human rights, we from the Left Party have been exercising that Sweden should work to ensure that all EU financial support is conditional on strict democratic requirements. Similar movements have been made by several parties. As there is agreement on this in Parliament, we in the committee abstained from calling for this. However, recent developments and statements show that we have still not reached the end of the road. One area that has received additional funding from the EU budget is security and defence. The Left Party strongly opposes the joint defence work within the EU. We say no to all plans for rearmament and common defence. We believe that Sweden and the work for peace and disarmament benefit from our country's freedom of alliance being guaranteed. Madam President, I would like Today, the European Union is providing our neighbours with financial support to keep refugees away. Instead of having their own rescue ships on the Mediterranean, this is left to Libya. However, there are reports of inhumane handling in these so-called rescue operations and the treatment of refugees in Libya. At the same time, the EU is continuing its cooperation with Libya and will develop it. Voluntary organisations that have ships for rescue operations are at risk of fines and people who save lives are in prison. The Left Party wants to see another policy in which the EU saves lives. We can also see how the way of working in the Mediterranean is getting more people to go to Europe via Gran Canaria, which is a much more dangerous route than the one across the Mediterranean. These are some of our reasons why we believe that the EU's long-term budget should be negotiated. Otherwise, we reject our position on the budget decision itself and set out our considerations in our specific opinion. As everyone has done so, I too wish the President-in-Office and all the President-in-Office a Merry Christmas.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1625	Madam President, I would like We are currently debating the EU levy and Sweden's membership of the EU. The Christian Democrats are fundamentally warm supporters of the European Union. If we had not had Europe, we would have had to invent it. There were three Christian Democrats who laid the foundations for the European cooperation that we have had for so long and who have served Europe as well as a guarantor of peace and who contribute to our prosperity on the basis of the internal market. We believe that the long-term budget needs to focus on genuine cross-border issues. It is about climate action, migration and security, but also about supporting research and development throughout the Union and at the same time promoting human rights, democracy and the rule of law both within and outside the Union. Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that Sweden's EU contribution has, in relative terms, been kept down and that we have been allowed to keep some discounts. However, the path taken by the EU is deeply worrying. The citizens of the European Union have been drawn up with a huge national debt at EU level, which is then distributed in unconditional contributions to countries that have not managed their economies well. This creates friction and division within the EU. It is not protecting the EU's basic mission. We are deeply critical of the instrument that has been established. We now also see that the EU comes with new instruments and new own resources that it wants to use to finance the very large commitments. It is own resources that have not yet been fully materialised, but it is new taxes and charges that are to be imposed on citizens in order to meet the ambitious commitments. It is now very important that Sweden continues to monitor that the EU does what it should do. The EU should focus more on the genuine cross-border problems that we have to deal with together. But we shall do so in a way that is sparing, responsible and fully upholds the European idea, Madam President. I think that Sweden has an important task to counter some of the expansionism that can actually be a threat to the cooperation itself if it is allowed to continue uninhibited without returning the EU to its core business, which is peace work and the genuine cross-border challenges. The framework of Christian Democrats has fallen. That is why we are not taking part in the decision, but are referring to our specific opinion.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1632	Madam President, I would like The EU budget for 2021 is the first budget to come from the new long-term budget, which runs from 2021 to 2027. Sweden's membership fee depends mainly on the budgetary framework set for the long-term budget. It is then broken down into annual frames. Therefore, the most important question for the size of the Swedish membership fee is how long-term the budget will be. Last summer, EU Heads of State or Government reached a new long-term budget. Of course, the negotiations, which many have lifted here from the speaker's seat, came to be characterised by the coronapndemin and how it has affected the economies of the Member States. Therefore, a large recovery package was added to the budget with the aim of revitalising the economy. For the Swedish part, the negotiation of the long-term budget meant several important successes. The overall goal for us, the government's mandate from the Riksdag, was to keep the membership fee down. With the UK leaving the EU, their membership fee also disappears. It was therefore obvious from the Swedish side that the EU budget should be reduced by the same, but it was not as obvious to everyone. We looked with concern at how other EU countries would try to fill that hole by increasing Sweden's fee. During the negotiations, the Swedish Government joined forces with three other countries that had the same entrance as us: Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria. Together with these countries, Sweden's Prime Minister finally managed to rest in port that Sweden's fee is kept down and that discounts are the largest ever. For next year the membership fee is assumed to be SEK 45 billion. What it is exactly becoming unclear is because it also depends on how well the EU succeeds in its various commitments. In addition to keeping the Swedish levy down, the new long-term budget represents a success in linking payments to living up to democratic values. If a country fails to comply with the rule of law, there is now a mechanism in place to allow the EU to stop payments to that country by qualified majority. This condition was also crucial for Sweden to be able to support the proposal for a long-term budget. Safeguarding democratic principles is about protecting what the EU should be. Madam President, I would like For Sweden, EU cooperation is important. Of course, it's about being able to solve things together that we can't solve individually, like the climate. It is also about our citizens being able to broaden their opportunities and at the same time be able to help protect each other. Cooperation like the EU is based on a perception that we are interdependent. We are in favour of maintaining peace and understanding, and we are in favour of economic development. With the European Union, we have the opportunity to jointly regulate markets so that everyone's interests, as well as common interests, are safeguarded. We also have a way of dealing with conflicts democratically with the EU. With the EU, we have the opportunity to have a common, strong voice for democracy towards the outside world. With the EU, we can get agreements in place for trade, cooperation and a rule-based world order that we in Sweden could never achieve on our own as a small nation. Even if we want to keep the fee low, there are good reasons why we pay our membership fee. Sweden is also, as usual, an active member who engages and who makes demands. We want the money to go to the right things such as security, migration, competitiveness, research and climate change, while spending on agricultural policy and cohesion policy should be reduced. We also believe that the EU should address the common issues that are dealt with more effectively at EU level than by the individual countries individually. We are also working to ensure that the EU implements budgetary discipline, where expenditure is financed within the framework or through redeployment. The reasons for this are ultimately that it is citizens' money that we are dealing with and that it is confidence in the European Union that is jeopardised if things are not done properly. It is hoped that in the coming years, with a new long-term budget decided, the EU will be able to begin to take on all the important commitments we have in the Union, now also with a condition that it will be done in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1646	Madam President, I would like The European Union is a cornerstone of European and Swedish international cooperation. We, as a small export-dependent country, can, properly managed, multiply our influence through such an organisation. The fact that Sweden, according to studies, is one of the most valued partners in the EU testifies to that very fact. Sweden is one of the largest net contributors to the EU, despite the large discounts we have on our fee. We also get great value from this fee. Nevertheless, it is of course important to keep costs down. The government's ambitions for a social pillar have already started to backfire and must be vigorously resisted in order to maintain national self-determination and maintain budgetary restraint. One of the Centre Party's main priorities with regard to the EU is that each Member State should adhere to a number of basic democratic principles. If you are privileged to be part of the community that the EU means, you must also respect the inviolable importance of the rule of law, the independence of the courts and the importance of free media. If you do not respect these principles, we mean, and many with us, that you should not have the full opportunity to take part in European funding either. We have repeatedly highlighted this in the past year, and it remains one of our most prioritised positions. That is why we also welcome the regulation linked to the long-term budget and which makes clear demands on conditionality. The fact that Hungary and Poland released their threats of veto against the regulation is a good thing, but until they fully respect the rule of law at home, the other EU countries must continue to act forcefully and unisonfully, not least in budgetary terms. Hungary is going to elections in 2022, and there is a great risk that Orbán will strengthen his grip on power, while weakening the opposition and the media for his own profit. Poland has its parliamentary elections in 2023. It is therefore unfortunate that the Council conclusions adopted last week were somewhat weak and unclear. For example, parts of the regulation are to be examined in the European Court of Human Rights, which can mean very lengthy legal proceedings for up to a year or at worst even more. It is a failure for Stefan Löfven and the government that this could not be achieved more quickly. It is also deeply regrettable that the European Commission has placed such tight restrictions on how – with our own tax resources, not the EU-wide – we can support companies in deep economic crisis as a result of the pandemic. The fact that the government has not managed to explain to the Commission that the advice we have put, which is voluntary, not binding, but still clear and guiding, is still to be regarded as strong restrictions and something for which, of course, one must be able to compensate one's companies, is an understatement to the government. Finally, Madam President, the funds currently available to the EU, both through the ordinary budget and the recovery fund, must be used responsibly. These are staggering sums of money we are talking about. In the same way that we will build Sweden stronger when the pandemic is over, Europe needs to be built stronger. The green transition needs to be speeded up. Vulnerability needs to be reduced in the face of the next crisis, whatever it may be. There, Sweden will of course be leading and driving to continue to multiply our influence.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1656	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! There have been tremendous efforts by the European Union in connection with the Corona crisis. It has also been a time when Europe's countries have gathered together to tackle the Corona crisis and to help each other together to secure jobs and businesses, to avoid bankruptcies, mass unemployment and excessive economic consequences, to ensure that Europe stays together. At the same time, it is important to say that each country has an important own responsibility for how to manage its economy. It has an important responsibility of its own not to shift responsibility to future generations. The EU must not become a body that countries can use as an argument for not taking care of their own economy. It is important to take one's own responsibility. Madam President, I would like It is also important to stand up for the principles of the rule of law and to ensure that countries that do not fulfil fundamental democratic rights and freedoms cannot benefit from the money paid out. It should be an important part of EU policy in the future.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1659	Madam President, I would like Looking at the budget presented and seeing that Sweden's contribution to the EU will increase significantly while seeing that there are actually members of the Union who do not take full responsibility for their economy, one can be provoked and put all their focus on it – that there is a lot of money and that there are problems in the EU. I would like to say that it is then also important to focus on and remember how important and valuable membership of the EU is for Sweden, for the Swedish economy, for our companies and for all of us who live and work in Sweden. EU membership offers us good opportunities to pursue an environmental and climate policy in a much more powerful way. We can act together with others, use the legal tools that exist in the EU and negotiate jointly with other countries, for example. When we are in the European Union, I think it is easy to forget how much it means to our companies that export, import and cooperate across borders within the Union. Following a debate where many people have focused on problems, I think it is extremely important to highlight and remember this – why we pay a membership fee to the EU. During the negotiations that have been over the past year, the Government, on behalf of the Riksdag, has focused on keeping Sweden's membership fee and the volume of the EU budget down. There are parts of the EU budget that I find a little difficult to justify. I see good reasons, for example, for cutting the agricultural budget, but it is clear that there is also much in the EU budget that is extremely important and valuable and that comes back to us in Sweden, in the environmental work and in the research work, for example. The debate on the budget for the European Union has shown the importance of having a set of fundamental common values built into the Union. This has come to light in the discussion about linking the principles of the rule of law to the budget, and it is extremely important that it came about despite persistent opposition from Poland and Hungary, who understand that it is about them. It does. There have been a number of Member States who have stood up for the principles of the rule of law and for them to be linked to the budget. It is extremely important, and I look forward to it being bored all the way through to becoming an active principle so that those countries that do not respect the principles of the rule of law do not enjoy the same rights and means as the other Member States. This is important. We will not let go of this issue. We are monitoring it until it is fully implemented in the way agreed by the Member States. I hope and expect that this will be a situation in which Europe is showing its strength and that there are fundamental values that we do not lose out on. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved. Since this is my last speech here now, I would also like to wish the committee colleagues present and the President a Merry Christmas.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1666	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have to say that it is fascinating to hear an environmental party stand and give a brand speech for the European Union. For us in the Moderates, who have always been an EU-positive party, the problem has been that the Green Party has been so damn negative to everything that the EU has done. But now Karolina Skog says that we need to see the positive too. I find it interesting that this journey has been made and has actually changed so dramatically on this point. On the other hand, I am concerned about the government's inability to succeed in the negotiations in Europe. As I said in my speech, it is not just about the EU levy and the recovery fund, where we think it has gone quite badly. We have the question of minimum wages – where does Sweden end up there? We have the social pillar that Stefan Löfven got into at the famous Gothenburg meeting and that opened Pandora's box to many EU politicians – how will Sweden manage to handle it? And then there's the taxonomy, which we've talked about before. Two weeks ago I asked Mr Bolund a question at Question Time. Then he did not understand that there were any problems at all with taxonomics, but everything was very positive. Last week in the Finance Committee, it was the same thing. At that time, it was very difficult for – at that time – the State Secretary to understand that there were some major concerns about taxonomics. And this week the government is making a complete change and writing a very good statement, pointing out all the problems that we from other parties have been warning about for weeks now. Then I ask Karolina Skog: Why did the government not get hold of this earlier? Why did they not see the problems that actually threaten large parts of Sweden's industry and energy supply? Why didn't they get hold of this earlier? Why don't you wake up until now, five to twelve?
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1670	Madam President, I would like I obviously took the Christmas break a little too soon. I would like to declare that I have always, throughout my life and my entire political career, been very positive to the European Union. I voted in favour when I was 18 years old and a few months old. However, I see that the Moderates are making a very troublesome journey. When you hear Moderates talk about Europe, it is very much about problems and the negative and very little, far too little, I would say, about the positive parts of EU membership, not least when it is Member Ericson speaking. I hope this is not a sign of a reversal. It is popular with the opposition to paint the Swedish government as a passive player in the EU. Nothing could be more wrong; I can testify from within. The Swedish government is an active part of the EU's work, and the work on taxonomics is no exception. We have received information in the Finance Committee about the active efforts made by the Government Office and the responsible Minister during the trip based on the mandate that has been established in the Riksdag, inter alia linked to how it will affect various industries in Sweden. I have not heard any part of this information that gives cause for concern, but it has clearly confirmed that it is active in bilateral contacts directly with the responsible Commissioner and with the various technical groups dealing with this issue.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1675	Madam President, I would like I never thought I would hear an environmental party say that we Moderates have become very negative to the EU. That's not what it looks like. We must look after our EU membership, and we must question things that do not work properly in Europe if we are to retain the legitimacy of EU membership and have support for it from the Swedish people. Then we must have a strong Swedish government that represents Swedish interests in the EU. That is how we defend Swedish EU membership and get support for it. Karolina Skog mentions that the government receives information and material from the EU and so on, but that is not how it should be handled. There must be activity. You have to care. You have to understand the questions. The Heads of State or Government must take the negotiations themselves and not just send down officials. That's where it's obviously broken. We have been informed that this is how it has been done. That's where I'm very worried. How do you figure this out now? We'll see where it lands.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1678	Madam President, I would like I can't comment on what rumors Ericson hears. What we have heard in committee is that the Government has had direct contacts with the Commissioner and that Sweden has been informally and formally active in the process of developing a taxonomy for the EU. As always, it is easy for the negative to take the upper hand. The debate on taxonomics is another example where one only hears about the enormous problems it may create. It completely disappears that there are also Swedish companies that will benefit from a common definition of what is a green investment. This disappears completely in the debate and is a good example of how easily it becomes unrefined and how the Moderates are unfortunately driving when it comes to the unrefined image. There are criticisms, there are things that need to be corrected and the government is very active in getting it in place. We are not satisfied with the proposal put forward by the Commission, but there are also positive elements in getting a taxonomy in place.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1681	Madam President, I would like Through Agenda 2030, the world's countries have committed themselves to a comprehensive resource mobilisation to achieve global goals of sustainable development, the elimination of extreme poverty, reduction of inequality and an ambitious approach to tackling the climate issue. After all, Agenda 2030 is essentially a growth agenda, for all 17 goals and 169 milestones are to be met, resources are needed – ultimately through own, sustainable power. More thought should therefore be given to how prosperity is created. Prosperity is not something that arises but something that people and businesses create, in all countries of the earth. Countries with low corruption and stable institutions, where people know that the money they pay into taxes is being used for the benefit of their citizens, have the conditions for growth and for gaining opportunities for themselves. For the poorest countries, this is about the need for annual GDP growth of 7% and for small-scale agriculture to be induced to scale up its production. It can therefore stand to repeat that Agenda 2030 is a growth agenda. Sweden can be said to be at the forefront in some areas, but at national level we still need to step up properly in other areas where, unfortunately, we cannot be said to be at the forefront. If we are to be credible in our criticism of other countries, we must also dare to be self-critical in the face of our own social problems. An accusing finger can not only be pointed outwards but must also be directed inwards, at ourselves. Madam President, I would like Take target 16 on peaceful and inclusive societies as an example. It is linked to fundamental issues of the social contract and citizens' trust in institutions and government. Its first milestone stipulates the need to reduce all forms of violence and deadly violence, which SCB notes that Sweden does not meet the given increase in lethal violence in recent years. The government in Sweden needs to intensify and raise the level of national ambition where our country is far from achieving the targets. The fight against violence and crime is not only right in substance and requested by the citizens, but it also contributes to Sweden's implementation of Agenda 2030. Madam President, I would like The Coronapendem is changing the world. It has, of course, also affected the conditions for reaching the global targets by 2030. The pandemic has flashed the need for international cooperation, not least the global health work. The economic and social consequences in the wake of how the world has handled the pandemic are difficult to understand, but clearly many companies are going to their knees, growth is falling and for some poorer countries they are so important referrals – that is, money sent home – are falling sharply in 2020. There is reason to worry about starvation, and with the lack of food social convulsions come. More countries will be pounding at the gates of the World Bank. What is interesting is that the same parties and politicians who quickly call for aid to mitigate the consequences of this at the same time demonstrate such an inability to understand that it is even more important to get the economies going quickly and have a policy for increased growth globally. Madam President, I would like The Coronandemine has accelerated parts of digitalisation, which for many people in Sweden who work from home may mainly be reminded by countless meetings via Skype, Zoom, Teams, Kudo and all that it is called. Changes in this area are taking place rapidly. Digitalisation will increase the chances of achieving Agenda 2030, but it will also pose difficult questions about handling everything from ethics to security. The government itself writes that by taking advantage of the opportunities provided by digitalisation, conditions are created for sustainable growth and good competitiveness. ..................................................... Technology companies highlight, among other things, the lack of digitalisation in the final report of the Agenda 2030 delegation. Several other referrals have also addressed the importance of digitalisation, such as our large global company Ericsson. Let me therefore be very clear about the following: the role of companies is crucial for the ability to achieve Agenda 2030. The government mentions the ability of industry to push the agenda forward. The Moderates want to emphasise the central importance of business and see a clearer role for entrepreneurship and innovation in the work on the global implementation of the Agenda. Successful vaccines, innovative climate solutions and smart digital healthcare solutions are created by private companies. Madam President, I would like The issue of climate and the environment knows no bounds. Therefore, the Swedish climate target is anchored in a global perspective, and that is why Sweden's national climate targets must not be achieved by increasing greenhouse gas emissions outside Sweden's borders. Swedish climate policy will make a real difference, and the climate targets in Agenda 2030 will be met. Then this central principle cannot be waived. An important part of the Swedish implementation of Agenda 2030 is the development and development policy. It is not aid that drives development. Measures to promote economic growth, international trade and an improved business environment are crucial to achieving both the objectives of aid policy and the objectives of Agenda 2030. Traditional development aid must have as a long-term goal that one day is no longer needed. But the second part of aid, humanitarian aid, will always be needed. Sweden can and will contribute here. In this context, it is important to note that Agenda 2030 lacks sharp wording on democracy. Sweden therefore needs, in addition to Agenda 2030, to remain a strong voice for democracy, for the principles of the rule of law and for human rights throughout the world. Madam President, I would like It is welcome that the Committee on Finance is proposing an announcement that the Government will report every two years on Sweden's implementation of Agenda 2030 in a letter to the Riksdag. This was something that the Committee on Foreign Affairs also drew attention to in its opinion on the report, and that is something that the Moderates wanted in the motion we raised on this matter – like the Left Party. We can see that we are now bringing the Parliament with us on this. If the results report had only been submitted once per term of office, as the government first wanted, we would have been able to have a situation where only two results are presented before the agenda is supposed to be completed. There is also reason to stress the importance of the government steering the authorities coherently, with clear instructions on how they should work and report on the basis of the agenda. We Moderates want to take Agenda 2030 very seriously. Then the wording must lead to action, and there must be a genuine will to realise the ambitions both in Sweden and globally. Therefore, there is also reason to remind us all of time. In a few days' time, 2020 – which we can say a lot about in parenthesis at these times of the pandemic – will pass in 2021. The clock is ticking towards 2030. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse the Moderates' reservation number 1 on Sweden's implementation of Agenda 2030. In addition, as an early Christmas present, I intend to declare that I will refrain from requesting a reply from my colleagues.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1698	Madam President, I would like Agenda 2030 is a UN programme aimed at achieving long-term and sustainable global development. The Agenda has been signed by all UN Member States. It is not binding, so that everyone has signed it does not mean that everyone will fight for it. When you read about Agenda 2030 in the media you can get the impression that it is only about climate and environment in the narrow sense, but Agenda 2030 is actually very broad. The 19 development goals are about peace, poverty reduction, stopping hunger, quality education, improving the environment, reducing CO2 emissions, increasing equality and equality, safe and cheap energy, economic growth, the need to develop industry, industry and infrastructure – as mentioned by the previous speaker – and reducing economic gaps, securing jobs and more. Sweden has long been at the forefront of most of these areas. The major exception is well the objective of the sea and marine resources, where the Baltic Sea still requires a great deal of action from the countries around it, including Sweden. Let me give you some examples of how good Sweden is: Sweden's emissions per capita of carbon dioxide are 33% below the EU average and 10% below the world average, including poor countries. We can thank hydroelectric power and nuclear power for more than 40 years. Another example is biodiversity. Very few species have disappeared from Sweden. The few species that have disappeared in our country, however, lived predominantly in broken deciduous forests at Sweden's absolute southern border. Great efforts are being made to support such species and their important environments. In terms of economic gaps, Sweden has the lowest share of low-income earners in the EU – 3.6 per cent of employees in Sweden are considered low-income earners. Unfortunately, the proportion is increasing, and that is worrying. I want to show in this way that Sweden is quite leading. Then you can rightly ask the question: should we put gunpowder on Agenda 2030 when we are already in such good shape? Our answer is: Yes, but calmly, and with our own current problems in mind. By its very nature, Agenda 2030 is organised from top to bottom. At the top are the UN and its organisations, which work not least on the aid-related parts of the agenda. At the level of the state Sweden, the government describes in its proposal how it wants to steer Sweden's work in line with the agenda's regulations. The government gives county boards the role of driving regions and municipalities. Madam President, I would like In my municipality, there are parties that talk about Agenda 2030 as a whole pervading the municipality's work. That makes me pretty daft. Agenda 2030 is not a Swedish constitution and should not be so. It is an international expression of will and a programme among others. Sweden's municipalities should be characterised by self-government with the aim of improving life for citizens in the short and long term. In my municipality current issues at the moment – besides of course to afford school, health care and care – are to maintain or close village schools, to increase the quality of school education, to make companies feel comfortable in the municipality so that we get jobs and tax money and to increase the share of locally produced food in the municipality's kitchen because we want to keep the regions open and rich in species. Other municipalities need to give priority to reducing crime and improving integration, which is of course also important in my municipality. All these objectives can be justified with Agenda 2030, but I would like to emphasise that that is not why we are working with them. The point I want to make is that the initiatives should come from below, where you best know what the greatest needs are. Each municipality has its greatest needs. Having said that, many of the municipalities' problems are also contained in Agenda 2030, and we can describe them in terms of the agenda – provided, however, that it does not make the work of the municipalities more difficult. The Government places a great deal of responsibility on the county boards to push through Agenda 2030 towards the municipalities. We think that leads to top control. The regional reform assumes that development work should lie on the regions rather than on the county boards. The county administrative boards are state-owned, but the regions are governed by regional elected representatives, as well as the municipalities by their elected representatives. Therefore, it may be reasonable for the regions and municipalities to carry out the work, but that the county boards have an important role to play in the follow-up to Agenda 2030. Madam President, I would like To go up the hierarchy again and look at the state's work on Agenda 2030, technological development, industry, business and trade are important tasks. Sweden must be a strong engineering nation. If we are to contribute to global sustainable growth, we need to train many more engineers who can develop technical solutions that can be used both here and in other countries. We must also create good conditions for investment in new technologies. The government's support for hydrogen-reduced iron through the Hybrid project is a very good example, but the government's ambivalent approach to the forest sector is a major cloud of concern. Sweden's aid must, to a greater extent than it is today, give priority to helping poor countries to start production that can give them access to the world market and thus sustainable economic development. The government is happy to talk about concrete targets for climate action, and that is a good thing. Unless the government lets the EU put a stop to Sweden's taxonomy for green investments, unless the government itself creates continued uncertainty for forest owners and unless the government itself sets up unreasonable calculations for what is net greenhouse gas emissions, I am fully convinced that we will meet the net zero target of 2045. But in Agenda 2030 there are also other goals that relate to other problems we have Sweden – sky high unemployment among young people, shootings on the open street, robbery of children around their schools, queue to prisons and a corona crisis that has not yet reached its culmination. Global Development Goal No. 11 is about sustainable cities. Sub-goal 11:1 proposes that all residents should live in a safe home by 2030. We have a lot to work with here. According to the police, Sweden has 60 vulnerable areas and 22 particularly vulnerable areas. We need very clear and timely targets here, Madam President. The government wants Sweden to be the international leader in implementing Agenda 2030. Sweden usually tries to focus on internationally high-profile issues. From the Swedish Democrats' side, however, we can actually consider handing over the leadership shirt to Denmark, Finland or Norway. They are right on our heels, but they have less acute social problems than we here at home in terms of corona, failed integration and high gang crime as well as shortcomings in school. If necessary, then we can confidently focus on being a good player in the cluster right behind our good neighbours, while focusing on our acute problems and on issues relating to education, development and the conditions for our business community in the future.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1720	Madam President, I would like The global goals are the most ambitious sustainable development agenda ever adopted by the world's countries. They are there to achieve four amazing things by 2030: to eliminate extreme poverty, to reduce inequalities and injustices in the world, to promote peace and justice, and to solve the climate crisis. The global goals for sustainable development can make this happen. That is something that all countries need to work on. That is something that requires commitment here and now in order for us to achieve the goals in just a decade's time. That I personally crave a little extra for goal number 7 on sustainable energy for all is probably no secret. On the other hand, it seems that the government does not really want to know two of the objectives. Number 8 is talking about economic growth, and number 9 is talking about entrepreneurship and innovation – two parts that are crucial for us to meet the other parts of the challenges. Unfortunately, we need to explain time and again to the government that it would be appropriate to help companies that are experiencing the current crisis. We also need to explain to parts of the government that economic growth is wise because otherwise we cement existing structures and are unable to free up resources for improvement. That is also why we choose to reserve ourselves in favour of the exercise that just describes the important work of the business community in order to achieve the global goals. I therefore request the approval of reservation 3. A more understanding government had placed greater emphasis on these issues. In the bill, the Government emphasises that the agenda should be integrated into regular processes and that the work to implement already decided parliamentary goals is crucial for the implementation of the agenda. Yet the government is not prepared to review the national environmental objectives system that we have in order to integrate the global targets, which all countries are working on, in order to have a broader view of sustainability. Madam President, I would like Agenda 2030 is something that engages many people. Around the municipality, the work has been going on for quite a long time, not infrequently with center parties at the forefront. It is a little surprising to me that the government has not until now managed to present a strategy for implementation at national level. The objectives are to be achieved in just a decade, and there are no small issues we are talking about. It is welcome that we now have an agenda on the table, literally, which, despite a number of reservations in part, has a fairly broad consensus. If the government can listen to all three sustainability criteria, i.e. not only environmental and social but also economic ones, the participation will be even greater and the work will go even faster. I look forward to that in the future. That is precisely why I am pleased that the Committee on Finance is giving the government the task of reporting on developments much more clearly and more frequently than the government itself has proposed. Then we can review the work of the government, no matter who is in power, and push for more sustainable development. With that I can wish colleagues and the tireless Parliament administration a Merry Christmas!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1730	Madam President, I would like When the 2030 Agenda was adopted in 2015, it was an ambitious agreement for sustainable development. Large and far-reaching goals were set to be met in 15 years. By 2030, the world would eradicate hunger and poverty as well as combat climate change and save our seas. These were big words that we can see today did not lead to the action that is necessary to achieve the objectives, and it is time to walk the talk. The Left Party welcomes the Government's proposal on Sweden's implementation of Agenda 2030. It is good that Sweden has a clear plan for how to work towards achieving the goals, and with ten years left and grand goals we understand that it is necessary to have a clear way forward. The Left Party, on the other hand, believes that the level of ambition in the work on Agenda 2030 is too low. If Sweden is to remain at the forefront, we need much better tools and a higher level of ambition, while the government can clearly show that the agenda's objectives are moving in the right direction at national as well as international level. The government can do that difficult today. In Sweden, economic inequality is increasing. Most of the national environmental quality objectives are not achieved, and many also go in a negative direction, while violence and violations, which to a large extent affect women, are not reduced either. In the follow-up motion to the bill, the Left Party proposed that the follow-up to the 2030 Agenda should take place more frequently than proposed by the Government. We are pleased to have received a response and a consensus in the Riksdag on the need for more frequent reporting from the Government to the Riksdag. The follow-up to implementation is an important part of the work on Agenda 2030, as it allows states to be held accountable for implementing the commitments arising from the agenda. Through a more frequent reporting of results every two years, we will have a clearer path towards achieving our goals. Anything else is unthinkable. Implementation and follow-up also require that all sectors of society and stakeholders interact and are involved in problem formulations and solutions. Civil society actors are indispensable for the promotion of human rights, democracy and sustainable development. The Left Party therefore shares the proposal of the Agenda 2030 delegation in its final report on the bill that Sweden needs an Agenda 2030 Forum. The proposal means that the Government organises a national forum to anchor the reporting and acquire knowledge from different sectors and actors before the occasions when Sweden submits in-depth national reporting to the UN High Level Forum. The Left Party also believes that we need an actor who has the necessary overall perspective for us to manage the implementation. At present, there is no such thing. In its response, the Agenda 2030 delegation proposes a committee tasked with continuously producing information to the government by 2030 in the form of follow-up, evaluation and proposals for measures. The Left Party shares the delegation's view that such a committee is needed. The need for a holistic approach is also evident when one talks about the agenda's target conflicts, but also the political and societal conflicts with the agenda. Although 17 years have passed since the PGU was adopted, and at the same time the Riksdag stated that Swedish policy must be coherent, it is clear that Swedish development policy is still not exactly that. The major conflicts and obstacles remain. Examples include arms exports, EU agricultural policy and tax evasion. During its term of office, the Government has taken or announced political decisions that go against the objectives of the PGU. The unwillingness to support country-by-country reporting at EU level, the agreement with Turkey to stop people fleeing, the tightening of Swedish asylum laws, export efforts aimed at dictatorships, the sale of Vattenfall coal mines and the inadequate legislation to restrict arms exports are some of the problems. The Agenda is not just about global development policy, but the commitments contained in the Action Plan also apply at national level. In Swedish domestic policy there are today major target conflicts with a negative impact on the implementation of Agenda 2030. These include tax reductions for the well-off who undermine welfare and increase inequality, which Oxfam in a new report also showed is a significant factor in driving further climate change. It is about the conflict of objectives between continued growth, how we achieve a prosperous society after 2030 and what we need to do in order to cope with the climate. It is also about the objective of sustainable consumption and production patterns and the change in labour law in relation to the Agenda's objective of decent working conditions for all, to name a few. The Left Party notes that despite the fact that Agenda 2030, with its 17 global goals for sustainable development, has gender equality both as its own goal and as a perspective that will permeate the whole agenda, a feminist analysis of the Government's proposal for Sweden's implementation is lacking. Women's rights are a crucial key to development. It is crucial that women in poor countries are allowed to put the agenda for work on gender equality in development policy and that Sweden works to ensure that women are represented and included in all forms of decision-making. Violations of women's rights are the most common and widespread violation of human rights. The Left Party therefore believes that the government, which claims to be feminist, should come back with a feminist analysis of the implementation of Agenda 2030. The Left Party notes that Agenda 2030, with its 17 objectives and 169 sub-targets, is not a buffet where it is possible to choose to implement the measures needed to achieve the objectives that are most easily achieved. To start picking the low-hanging fruits is well enough, but eventually Sweden also needs to deal with the big questions beyond the words. Sweden, as mentioned earlier, does not even reach its own set environmental targets. They are objectives that, if we reach them, would make it possible for us to reach more or less the 2030 Agenda targets on climate, the environment and water. With regard to the climate, economic inequality, job security, people living in exclusion and good education for all, we are not moving in the right direction. Sweden has been a leading country on these issues. The government and the Riksdag need to keep up this work to ensure that it continues to be so. The 2030 Agenda highlights what some see as a cliché, but in this case it is so true: Only together – all citizens, all parts of society and ultimately all nations – can we go to the goal of Agenda 2030. Then let's do it. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1751	Madam President, I would like We depend on each other. We have a responsibility to each other. That responsibility goes beyond cultural and geographical boundaries. We Christian Democrats believe that it is essential to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development economically, environmentally and socially. It is therefore an important thing when the House votes through an overall parliamentary objective that anchors and clarifies Sweden's commitment to implementing the 2030 Agenda with a coherent policy. But what is happening in this House is not enough. Implementation must take place every day, by all of us. We need to work hard to achieve the goals at global, national, regional and municipal level. Much is being done today. Many initiatives are being taken to increase inclusion, to reduce vulnerability and poverty and to combat the climate threat. But we still have a long way to go. If we look at Sweden, we can see that SCB in its follow-up to Agenda 2030 last year notes that there are major challenges in the implementation. One of these is inequalities between different groups. They do not decrease but increase in several areas. Therefore, in this year's report SCB focuses entirely on the issue of inequality based on the principle of not leaving anyone out of it. A dark picture is painted, not least as regards the situation of the children. Children's health in Sweden is not equal. It is estimated that 10 per cent of Swedish children may have been subjected to psychological or physical abuse or neglect. Many children experience cyber bullying. It is something that no one should have to suffer. SCB also shows that the level of education, gender and whether you live alone or not have a significant impact on life expectancy in Sweden. Highly educated, cohabiting women live longer. But women and girls are also more often affected by mental illness. This also applies to persons who do not work, who are low-income or who have an intellectual disability. We can also see that more people are concerned about attacks and threats in areas with socio-economic problems and that there are more serious crimes there compared to the other areas. This is just a sample of the inequalities revealed in the report. It is very worrying reading which shows that we need to commit ourselves to working even harder to achieve the goals. Madam President, I would like To debate and discuss issues related to Agenda 2030 cannot be more topical, especially from a global perspective. Record heat in Australia, forest fires in California, and cyclones in Mo ç ambique are just a few examples of how extreme weather resulting from climate change has recently caused devastation and driven people to flight. The Lancet's latest annual report on the impact of climate change on global health shows a bleak future. Scientists warn that if we do not stop climate change now, we will see more food shortages, heat-related mortality and increased incidence of infections, waterborne diseases, storms and fires. The pandemic has, of course, temporarily reduced climate emissions, but there are other effects of the pandemic that are worrying and that are at risk of lasting adverse health effects and increased poverty. This week Save the Children reported that many years of work against malnutrition is at risk of being lost as food production has decreased during the pandemic and food prices have been pushed up. School closures have meant that many children have lost not only the valuable schooling but, in poor countries, perhaps their only meal a day. The acute hunger is estimated to double this year due to the pandemic, to affect 265 million people. This year's Nobel Prize winner World Food Programme is needed more than ever. It is good that they are now investing heavily in counteracting this development and that Sweden supports this work. Unfortunately, there are a number of developments that are going backwards. The World Bank estimates that between 88 and 115 million people will end up in extreme poverty in 2020, and the figure continues to rise to 150 million in 2021. It's a trend break in the wrong direction. Over the last twenty years, poverty has steadily decreased, but now it is increasing. In addition to more people being forced to live in extreme poverty, the consequence is that we are also backing down in other areas. Save the Children warns that more children end up in child labour and marriage when families are forced to find different ways to make a living. The IMF warns that the pandemic can add to conflicts and social unrest as competition increases for resources. They show that past pandemics have created a vicious spiral of economic distress, increasing inequality and social unrest in the most affected countries. Besides creating human suffering, growing poverty also affects us. The World Bank estimates that eight out of ten of those now slipping back to extreme poverty live in middle-income countries. These countries are important parts of global value chains and will be able to have a major impact on Western economies as well. Madam President, I would like The economic crisis is also getting worse and harder to combat in many poorer countries. In addition to the decline in economic activity due to restrictions and shutdowns, the influx of money into the countries is decreasing. On the one hand, so-called referrals from relatives living and working in wealthier countries are reduced, and on the other hand, aid risks to theirs when donor countries are also going through economic crisis. We need to do what we can to counteract that. I am proud that we from the Swedish side continue to stick to the 1% target. At the moment, it is particularly urgent. We are also dedicated to the work on Agenda 2030 today. Of course, we are not alone in this work. We can only combat poverty, avert the climate crisis and achieve the other goals of Agenda 2030 together. It is therefore positive that the future President of the United States has announced that it will be re-joining the Paris Agreement. A wide range of countries report positive things in connection with the implementation of Agenda 2030. But there's still a lot to do. We need to review debt write-offs for the poorer countries in order not to put a heavy burden on already. We have seen that those countries have had less chance of borrowing for the kind of strong economic stimulus that we, the Western countries, have been able to do. The IMF reports that covid-19-related incentives in sub-Saharan Africa amount to about 3% of GDP on average. It is of already low Bnp figures and significantly less than other countries' incentives. It will, of course, hit long-term growth and development opportunities and jobs, entrepreneurship and innovation in those countries. We now need to do what we can to help those people and those economies get on their feet so that we and they can return to the positive trend in poverty reduction that prevailed before the pandemic. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats welcome the government's intention to take the work on implementing the 2030 Agenda further. However, we believe that the new objective of the work should be followed up and reported to the Riksdag more often than the Government proposes. Instead of once per term of office, the report should take place every two years, as is currently the case with Sweden's policy for global development, PGU. It is therefore good that the committee has agreed and agrees on this. It is also in line with the Christian Democrats' motion. Since the new objective of Agenda 2030 replaces some but not all of the objectives of the PGU, we from the Christian Democrats also want to highlight the importance of these other elements, in particular the objectives and orientations of development cooperation, not losing in terms of follow-up. Ensuring that this work is followed up and carefully evaluated is central for us. Effective and effective assistance for those most in need is based on the possibility of monitoring and evaluating policy implementation. I therefore support our reservation number 7. The Christian Democrats' starting point for politics is based on the value and right of every human being to dignity, which is not limited by national boundaries. This conviction of our joint responsibility for each other is needed to do what is necessary to implement Agenda 2030.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1771	Madam President, I would like This year is the first year since 1998 when extreme poverty is increasing in terms of the number of people on our planet. In October, it was estimated that this year there will be as many as 115 million people living in extreme poverty. After the Corona crisis, the figure will have increased from around 8 to around 9 percent. There are terrible numbers of people living in an incredibly vulnerable situation and an extreme lack of freedom. For it is clear, Madam President, that the one who is extremely poor and does not have the resources to manage is also the one who is perhaps the most unfree on our planet. Madam President, I would like We also face extremely great challenges in terms of the climate as human beings. It is no secret that Sweden has an ambitious climate policy, and that is a good thing. But it is also clear that both we and the whole world need to do more, work harder, innovate more, engage more and increase our prosperity so that we can invest more if we want to save the climate, but also if we want to lift people out of poverty. Madam President, I would like It is strange that there are growth critics in Sweden – people who are critical of us having more resources to spend on lifting people out of poverty and for us to have more resources to build climate-smart energy solutions and to lift us people out of our pitiful state when it comes to climate change. When people work it is called economy, and when people produce more this year than we did last year it is called growth. And, Madam President, if we are to solve the climate crisis, lift people out of poverty and achieve every one of the so important objectives of Agenda 2030, we will need proper growth. Madam President, I would like I am also concerned about this from the perspective that the Corona crisis has hit hard not only on economies and people who have been socially or economically vulnerable from the outset, but on the economy throughout the world. This means that many countries are thinking about their spending, and aid is being put in the balance for too many countries that should be involved in helping to lift people around the world and to achieve the 2030 Agenda targets. I am pleased that the Liberals are one of the clearest votes in the Swedish Parliament for the one per cent target for aid. But I also believe that, as living in a well-functioning democracy and as a country that is an important part of the world's economy, we will have to move on and push on other countries – in order for the economies around the world to remain open so that we can have more resources next year than this year, but also for others to take responsibility in development policy as well. Madam President, I would like Liberals have a reservation, number 5, and smoothly enough it's also about goal number 5. Of course, I am in favour of it. It's about equality. If we are to lift people out of poverty and ensure that more people around the world receive education and live their lives in freedom and that several of the other objectives of Agenda 2030 are achieved, much more work will be needed for gender equality. Madam President, I would like There is criticism of the 2030 Agenda targets, and that is not so strange. It is not straightforward when all the countries of the world are trying to agree on common goals for sustainable development. Of course, some things are hard to put on such an agenda. One such area, where Agenda 2030 is not really enough, is the demand for democracy. There are some objectives that concern democracy, but this is not clearly addressed in the agenda. To achieve democracy and work on the issue of democracy within the framework of Agenda 2030 – spread democracy and thus provide people with the tools needed to create freedom – it is completely inseparable from the issue of democracy to also work more with gender equality. We have suggestions in our reservation about how Sweden can drive the gender equality agenda, both in the UN and towards other countries. It is about taking important initiatives for women to have a greater and more significant role in constitutional building and democratisation processes around the world. It is about women being more represented in parliaments around the world. And, Madam President, it is simply about giving people freedom, no matter what gender they happen to have. Madam President, I would like This is another reason why the issue of aid is so important. It is against the background of the need for democracy, both for economic freedom and to achieve the other objectives, that it has been such an important part of Liberal policy and the Liberals' contribution to the aid policy of the January parties to lift democracy there too. Madam President, I would like In addition to our reservation, the Liberals welcome with open arms that Sweden is now getting a proper strategy to achieve these goals. We think it is good that, at the request of the committee, the government will report more often. This is an agenda that needs to permeate Sweden's policy and that needs to be taken seriously. If we are to lift people out of poverty and ensure that people around our planet are saved from climate change and have a sustainable future with equality and democracy, great efforts will be needed, both here at home and in the world. Madam President, I would like With those words, I wish those who may be looking at this, the Presidium of Presidents and the few colleagues who are left here a really good chrismukkah. It's only a few days until Hanukkah reaches its peak, and it's not that far until Christmas. It is therefore appropriate to say: From all of us to all of you – a really good chrismukkah!
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1784	Madam President, I would like "Sustainable development" is a development that meets today's needs without jeopardizing the potential of future generations to meet their needs. This was formulated in 1987 in the report "Our Common Future", the so-called Brundtland Report. Under the leadership of Norway's then Social Democratic Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, the Brundtland Commission had been commissioned by the UN to prepare proposals for a better environment and sustainable development. The report became an important starting point in the global work for sustainability. Not least, the basis for what was to be the next step was laid: the adoption of Agenda 21 by the United Nations at the Rio de Janeiro Conference in 1992, in which the world, with a view to the 21st century, would tackle environmental degradation and the fight against poverty and strengthen democracy. The ambitions of Agenda 21 were extensive. The idea was that it would not only be a desk product but would become a work that characterized the whole of society. Sweden took the work very seriously. The commitment was evident with the government, in the municipalities and out among associations. During my own schooling in the 1990s, we learned about Agenda 21. We were asked to consider how we could contribute ourselves, and the teaching was characterized by getting to know the world and taking responsibility for it. It was simply a solid public education effort for democracy and sustainability. The UN subsequently also adopted the so-called Millennium Goals. The aim was to eradicate poverty and hunger by 2015 and strengthen education and health with a particular focus on children. Now that we are about to implement Agenda 2030, we are taking on a job that people have done very ambitiously and meritoriously ahead of us. With Agenda 2030 we grab the baton for the next stretch. Sustainability has long been defined according to three dimensions: environmental sustainability, social sustainability and economic sustainability. The overall objective of Agenda 2030, now adopted by the Riksdag, includes this. We say that Sweden will implement the 2030 Agenda for economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development through a coherent policy at national and international level. We also assess that Sweden should carry out work that contributes to sustainable development in society nationally and internationally. The balanced and integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainability is central. This is good and right. There is also reason to think a little more deeply about the goal and the assessments. It is not straightforward to determine what is sustainable. What we are now committed to with Agenda 2030 is to analyse and evaluate the policies we are pursuing from the point of view of sustainability. As a guide, there are 17 objectives and 169 milestones. Each country decides on the basis of its own conditions how the objectives are to be achieved, and each country has the task of ensuring that all the different policies are consistent. Agenda 2030 also becomes a tool for identifying when they do not match, and it is a tool for identifying when different goals conflict with each other. The fact that there are goals conflicts is nothing unusual and nothing that can be completely avoided. Target conflicts are a natural part of political everyday life. Our task is to see them and understand them from all the essential sustainability angles and then make a political assessment of what is the most reasonable decision in the individual case and what boils together to the best whole. An important task is to achieve a broad social commitment behind Agenda 2030. This is not supposed to be an expert project that spins above people's heads, but vice versa. So we need to consider how we are also making sure that students are involved this time. We must help create pressure behind the international trade union work on human rights. We must evaluate what democratic arenas we have in which social debate can take place on equal and fair terms. Success in getting community involvement in the issues is important for our overall ability to make good analyses. We are unlikely to always agree on how things should be seen or what balance is right. Nor is that always the purpose. On the other hand, the method, transparency and commitment can mean that more people have the opportunity to opinion and influence and that decisions taken can gain greater legitimacy. A not insignificant UN ambition here is the higher democratic aim. A society governed by democratic principles and not only by the interests of the rich and the strong will be fairer and more peaceful. Democratising the world means being able to resolve conflicts and create improvements. This is also where international cooperation comes in to strengthen a democratic world order and to achieve the objectives of the agenda. Madam President, I would like Developing society for the better requires that we do not let dystopin eat us. It is important that we build faith in the future, that we believe in man's will and ability, and that we look optimistically at technological development and how it can help us. With the right policies, we can move in the right direction. There are several important examples of this in Sweden. Some examples are the Hybrid project in Luleå, where steel will now be produced without coal, LKAB's investment in Kiruna in fossil-free production and of course Northvolt in Skellefteå, this huge factory that will produce batteries for the growing market. This is about highly productive, competitive and green jobs that create growth, develop the economy, give tax money to care and contribute to the transition. This is how we combine sustainability aspects. To be successful in this classic Swedish structural change policy requires investments for new jobs. It also requires a generous unemployment fund, a broad labour market policy and plenty of training places, so that people can take the new jobs – because it is the people we work with. It is directly counter-productive to society's ability if some can cope with luxury consumption while others are forced to stress between insecure low-wage jobs. Justice is a prerequisite for the success of Agenda 2030. I myself am convinced that it will be fine. Sweden has several exemplary examples to point out from both yesterday and today. Now it is important that there is even more workshop. With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations. I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas and thank you very much.
i-d8f60b2d6de9cced-1801	Madam President, I would like Building a better world often feels difficult. This year hasn't made it any easier. When the pandemic spread around the world, it was not that the problems and challenges we had before disappeared. Rather, they have increased. 2020 is coming to an end. There are many of us who hope that next year will bring more sparkles of light than this year has offered. Now developments in many parts of the world are going backwards. People are forced to leave their homes in the wake of climate change when impregnable areas of forest burn up and heavy rains and floods leave the ground unusable. In addition, a deadly virus is spreading, not only taking people's lives but also putting millions of people in acute and extreme poverty. Building a better world often feels difficult. But it's a little easier when we do it together. With Agenda 2030, the whole world has agreed on a concerted effort to achieve the 17 goals, which in itself will enable us to achieve social, environmental and economic sustainability. We must do so despite the setbacks. Now, instead, it is more important than ever to stick together and switch up. Therefore, it is also so good that this bill is now in place, so that our work, Sweden, can be focused and the goals achieved. The Agenda is an action plan with objectives for the transition to a sustainable society for people, the planet and prosperity. The world's countries are committed to leading the world towards a sustainable and just future by 2030, to eradicating poverty and hunger everywhere, to combating inequality within and between countries, to building peaceful, fair and inclusive societies, to ensuring that everyone is able to enjoy human rights, to promote equality and the empowerment of women and girls, to take efforts to reach those at risk and to ensure lasting protection for the planet and its resources. The fact that no one should be left out is a fundamental principle based on a rights perspective for the individual. Reducing inequalities both within and between countries is a prerequisite for giving all people access to basic public services such as housing, good health care, education and economic empowerment. Human and civil rights must be respected, and democracy is an invaluable tool. Madam President, I would like Building a better world often feels difficult. But starting where you stand is often a good start, and we will live up to the commitments we have at home. That is why I am concerned about the fact that Sweden's work on implementing Agenda 2030 is going much too slow. Last year, the Static Central Bureau produced a situational picture of how the work is progressing, and the results of it are nothing we can be satisfied with. It is noted, among other things, that our current instruments are not enough to meet environmental and climate objectives, that inequality is increasing rather than reducing, and that there is no reduction in violence and violations. It is absolutely crucial that our work on the three points should shift and take shape in the policy that we in this House decide. If we are to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030, it is not possible to lower taxes for the rich or to make it cheaper to release; we have to do the opposite. But we don't just have our own goal fulfillment to think about. Sweden also has a responsibility and a great opportunity to help more people achieve their goals. Sweden's work in the world will also be permeated by the overall idea of Agenda 2030. In the footsteps of the coronapndemin, the work is in danger of sounding off and being completely replaced by emergency measures. But in order to create long-term work, it is important that the pandemic does not become a brake block but rather a reason to work more, harder and wider. It is important to restart with new and better conditions to meet the challenges of the future. A green reboot. Before the pandemic, in September 2019, a group of independent scientists appointed by the UN presented a progress report on the world's implementation of Agenda 2030. The report shows a slowdown in the pace of progress and that the world's countries were already a long way from achieving the targets. At the same time, the report shows that there is an opportunity to reverse this trend. Then we'll have to tap up. Sweden will continue to be a driving force in the EU and in international bodies for ambitious global implementation. This will be done in several ways, such as through trade, international cooperation, knowledge exchange, higher education, research and innovation. Sweden contributes through the participation of public, business, universities, colleges and civil society in several arenas, both bilaterally and multilaterally. We have a feminist government that pursues a feminist foreign and development policy. We do this because it really makes a difference in the lives of millions of women and girls. But we are also doing so because by strengthening women, economically, with more education, with more power over our own bodies, we are also getting closer to achieving the other goals, and not just that of equality. The same applies to the climate challenge. We do not have many years if we are serious about tackling the climate crisis. We get worrying reports every week now that things are going too slowly and that we need to do more. For economic development to take people out of poverty, there must also be a world in which to live. There are no jobs on a dead planet. Madam President, I would like Working inclusively and comprehensively can be difficult sometimes in our systems, which are largely built as drain pipes where each area is handled separately. Now we have to learn to work differently. We in the Green Party have always argued that different policies are interrelated and much more interdependent than is apparent at first sight. That's what the world's seen now, too. The Agenda is also about promoting and making visible the importance of coordination and coherence between all policy areas, both globally and nationally. The proposal put forward by the government underlines this. It is about how we take important steps in the management of processes in government, what is the role of the authorities and that we need to be clearer in procurement. The goal should also be parliamentary. That is why we will have to stand here in the late evening and debate this in order to anchor and clarify Sweden's commitment to implementing the 2030 Agenda both nationally and internationally. The Agenda extends to 2030, but work on sustainable development needs to continue beyond that, especially after the challenges of recent years and backlash. The fact that the world has common goals makes it easier. Now we're just going to achieve them, and we can only do that together. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
