i-34f7b5fece3a611c-0	Madam President, I would like When the Liberals' parliamentary group asked for a special debate on freedom of the media and culture, it was a very hot issue. It was about safeguarding the independence of public services and strengthening the freedom of culture. There were examples of politicians trying to interfere in culture. It's been a few weeks now. In the middle of Coronatimes, it feels like we're living in a completely different world. But the issue of freedom for the media and independence for culture is hotter than ever. We see a time when many have lost their income from one day to another. We see a situation where concerts are cancelled, where pieces that have been repeated will never reach the audience, where cinemas and museums are empty and where newspapers see advertising revenue collapse. When the economy is weaker, the risk of dependence is greater. This places even greater demands on us politicians. I am pleased with the urgent package that we have agreed with the government. I'm also happy about how it was designed. We let experts give the money to those who need it most, and politicians keep arm's length away. That is the central point, Madam President. Arm length must prevail. Politicians should not interfere in the media and culture.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-4	Madam President, I would like In times of crisis, our ability to gather and act is tested. The spread of the Corona virus is a major threat to our society. It is primarily a threat to people's lives and health. A number of people, a large number of people, will be severely affected. Many will become ill, some severely ill. Some will even lose their lives. People throughout our country will have to live with the grief of losing a beloved grandmother, father, or companion. The emergence of the Corona virus is also a threat to people's dreams and future plans. When society stops, we see how people are forced to revise their life plans. Existence is paused. The whole life's work is gone. Madam President, I would like It is our duty as a society to do everything in our power to protect those who are at risk of harm. As the Prime Minister said in his speech to the nation, there will be a few crucial moments in life when you must make sacrifices, not only for your own sake but also to take responsibility for your environment, for your fellow human beings and for our lan d. That moment is now. That day is here. And that task applies to everyone. That's exactly what it is. It is now our capacity for unity, solidarity and action that are being tested. My Minister's colleague, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, talks about the fact that we have financial resources in the barns. That's good. It is resources that come in handy at a time like this. But we also have something else in the barns: a reserve of human trust, solidarity and concern. It is from this gold reserve of human concern that we are now extracting the power of our society, at the moment when it is most needed. Madam President, I would like Our collective efforts give rise to reflection. Why is it that together we are making this tremendous array of forces to protect our society? Of course, it's about life and health, about caring for our fellow human beings. But it is also about protecting everything we appreciate in humanist and free society. It is about us being people, that we want to live our lives in freedom and have the opportunity to flourish as we are. That is precisely what we can do in culture. Churchill is said to have said: If not culture, what are we defending? Art is not just a cozy decoration for those who have a well-stocked wallet, Madam President. It also has an inherent power. It can tell us something important about what it is like to be human, can be a critical look at our society, can expose what we do not see with the eye and sometimes even dare to ask the critical questions. For that to be possible, art and culture must be given the power of freedom, exploration and independence. Protecting free cultural life, in times of crisis and calmer times, is therefore a fundamental task for any politician who understands the protection of an open, democratic and dynamic society. Then it is important that this discussion also takes place in times of crisis, perhaps especially then. It is precisely in crisis that humanistic and libertarian values are at risk of being obscured. In times of crisis, it also becomes clear how dependent our society is on independent and professional journalism and on reliable information that reaches the whole country. At the same time, the role of the media is as important now as ever. Politicians, authorities and rulers must be watched critically but objectively. Powerholders should not be able to settle down just because there is a crisis. Madam President, I would like Last Friday I was able to present a support package for culture. Cultural Sweden is a cultural ecosystem, a web of cultural creation made up of small and large organizers, a web that arranges performing arts, concerts, festivals, readings and film screenings in a diverse mosaic. There are big and small actors, from the small independent theatre group to concerts that attract audiences in the thousands. In recent days, the government has also launched strong measures to support business and businesses throughout our country. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the Liberals who have initiated this important debate. I would like to thank the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party for their constructive work on the support package and the other parliamentary parties for their commitment to the value of culture at this time.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-15	Madam President, I would like It is inevitable today to think about what a society is without all cinemas, theatres, sports halls, cultural houses, libraries, restaurants and cafes, museums and galleries. They're meeting places. Society would be completely oxygen-poor, desolate and empty without them. Madam President, I would like Now we are living in an exceptional time. The infectory has forced the historic decision to limit general gatherings. Instead, national cohesion and solidarity can be demonstrated by distance between people. Of course, all the priority now is to combat the infection and protect human life. However, today we are also seeing authoritarian regimes using the risk of infection in order to impose restrictions on civil and political rights. In the heart of Europe, the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, has tabled a bill to govern the country by decree for an indefinite period of time. Hungary is the EU country that, according to the Freedom House, can no longer be described as a democracy, this in the midst of our Europe, in one of the Member States of the Union. Orbán has managed to take control of civil society, public services and the choice of universities. Voluntary organisations, human rights activists and journalists are actively threatened. Madam President, I would like This is exactly what free cultural life and independent media are all about. It shall be free and independent, reviewing and criticising, investigative and provocative. In this way society is revitalised, and power is given eyes of scrutiny. I am proud of our democratic and free country, of our strong cultural life, of our independent media and of the trust in expertise, science and the ability of democracy. Historically, we Social Democrats have always fought for these libertarian principles. It is in the task of the Social Democracy to continue that struggle.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-20	Madam President, I would like I thank the Liberals for the initiative for this important debate. For us Moderates, it is self-evident that high-quality free and independent media as well as a free culture play a crucial role in democratic dialogue. It is the tick that holds our society together and has an especially important role in times of extreme concern. By the time this debate was initiated, the Corona virus had not struck the whole country with full force. Today, however, concerns about life and health for ourselves and relatives and concerns about their own business or work are a reality. We carry this with us each and every one of us around the clock. The cultural and media sector has been hit very hard. The uphill will be very heavy when this nightmare ends. It is more important to make quick decisions from the Government and the Riksdag than with precision when taking measures. The already high level of social insecurity in cultural and creative industries, not least because of difficulties in calculating SGI, is now becoming extremely evident in these professions. Madam President, I would like Free media are fundamental in a democracy and in a free and open society. The Moderates safeguard robust constitutional protection for freedom of expression and the press, as well as rules of the game that guarantee the independence of the media and allow for diversity and competition. Our view is that public services play an important democratic role in our society, while the mission of state broadcasters should have a clear focus and be limited in scope. Politics, that is, we here, are designing the permit conditions for public service but should stay away from the journalistic work and leave the review to independent bodies. The policy is not to decide which programmes are to be broadcast or which content is to be produced by public service or other media. There is much to compromise in politics. But there is no room for compromise when it comes to fundamental principles of freedom of culture and the media. For us, it is a core task to do everything we can, both in government and opposition, to strengthen the constitutional protection of the institutions of free society. But there must be no fear of touch. It must not be the case that any serious and critical discussion of, for example, public service is being discredited as authoritarian development. Madam President, I would like The concept of media pluralism is extremely important. I will come back to that in the next round.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-29	Madam President, I would like After all, what are we humans? I, for my part, am a computer engineer. The quote comes from a newspaper clipping that often caught my interest when I was little. It's true and humorous. We humans, however, are more than our profession. We are not just computer engineers – or doctors, who are now, by the way, carrying out heroic efforts around the world to nurture infected people in the coronapdemine and limit the spread of infection. Let me pay tribute to all of them and to the branches of civil society and cultural life, along with the business community, which are now fighting in one way or another the direct or indirect consequences of the pandemic plague. Here we see how freedom and independent hooks arm with national collection and public power – people and elected hand in hand. We humans are cultural beings. As long as man has shaped civilizations and communities, we have cultivated cultural expressions and means of communication. Since the entrances of writing and printing, radio, moving image and IT, we have communicated, interacted, mediated news and examined those in power on the basis of freedom of expression and press. Swedish freedom of the press legislation is one of the oldest in the world. Let us be proud, but not satisfied. Today's cultural and creative industries, the diverse media landscape, the relationship between, for example, the general public, elected representatives, the profession, science and debate, and not least the formation versus breaks of political doctrines that classical educational and cultural institutions should enforce as minions in the government's building of society are centrifugal issues in Swedish cultural policy. The concept of arm's length is increasingly taking the form of a soufflé in which we parliamentarians have increasingly different definitions. We increasingly disagree about whether or not the arm's length distance prevails, although we seem to agree on its importance and needs. Today we are experiencing a cultural conservative renaissance. Community, cohesion and civil dialogue are becoming increasingly important alongside increased commitment to public art and the interaction of classical beauty values with the human environment. It is clear that this concerns representatives of the norm criticism that has become the norm today. It gives room to new expressions and criticisms of familiar notions and perceptions, such as that no one should like the value-driven cultural policy that has prevailed for decades – one refuses to acknowledge that no cultural policy is value-free. Let me be clear. The Swedish Democrats are carriers of cultural policy objectives that we believe would both strengthen the role of cultural life in society and start a journey towards a freer art and cultural life along with the public's responsibility. Last autumn, the undersigned presented a specialization programme for a media landscape where diversity and freedom of expression are key words. It is not in contrast to, but is borne by, national cohesion and popular support. All power emanates from the people, decrees our constitution. At this time, we do not have experts just to give us recommendations. They should also be able to show models and explain how they reason. The same is true in the field of culture and media – people, elected representatives and professionals hand in hand.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-35	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Sweden has a wide range of media is important and in many ways crucial for a functioning democracy, including for the review of leaders and for opinion formation where several perspectives have the opportunity to be brought forward. Then we need both public service and commercial media, side by side, to provide a variety of perspectives. Not least are we seeing this these days with the difficulties we find ourselves in. It also clearly shows what societal benefits the media have in informing about what is happening and how to protect themselves, but also in critically reviewing how politicians, authorities and others deal with the situation. Public service plays a major role in the reflection of the whole country. A broad public service mission is central to the continued relevance of the offering to many people in Sweden. Public service media SVT, SR and Utbildningsradion are funded through a public service fee. The independence and impartiality of public services are important for credibility. We have in Sweden a system of responsible publishers and a review board for public service. This review and follow-up of the media should keep a clear distance from policy. The new broadcasting permits for the public service broadcasters are also important to mark the independence of the companies. A m steam of perspective is a search for free media. Independents in you are needed for a multifaceted scrutiny of power. It is the task of the media to examine power. It is in no power to review the media. The importance of independent media cannot be overestimated. But it requires good and fair conditions for the media throughout the country. We are also living in a time of increasingly differentiated media and newspapers under economic pressure. There must be resources for media coverage throughout the country. It's an emergency right now. It is a matter of coping with this crisis here and now. It is a political issue. It is about information and accessibility. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the libraries that exist throughout the country in all municipalities. They play an important role both as information and cultural intermediaries but also in education in a broader perspective. Libraries also have a mission to reach not only those who speak Swedish, but libraries become an important link for more and more people in our society. They are also for those who have not spoken Swedish as their mother tongue or who need other opportunities to take in a text or information. We see this need even more today in the wake of the pandemic. Madam President, I would like It is central to a broad and free cultural life throughout the country. At the same time, some form of political governance in the area of tax-funded culture is reasonable. But it is important to define what politics should govern. It should then be about the allocation of resources to different areas such as performing arts for children, for example. Let us safeguard the independence of the media and a rich cultural life in the future!
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-46	Madam President, I would like This debate is about one of the most important things in our democracy, the freedom and independence of the media and a cultural life that can operate freely. Hopefully, we all agree on the importance of this so that we can leave and have been involved in strengthening democracy further today. Free media must never be taken for granted. We see around the world how opportunities to report freely, ask questions and review powers are easy to prune. It may begin with some media being called ugly names or being lost at press conferences. It can go so far as to end up with a single state-controlled news channel with a controlled reporting. Madam President, I would like We are currently living in a very serious situation. We are in a crisis caused by a pandemic in which all the resources of society are put to the test. Here, the media have a very important role to play in being involved in disseminating information about how we are going to overcome this crisis. But at the same time, they will review and report what is happening. Media and cultural life also face great threats of their own. They struggle with their own existence at a time when advertising sales and ticket revenues dive. How will all the cultural practitioners and all the staff working in culture who do not currently have a secure job be able to make a living when their exhibitions, sets or other assignments disappear almost overnight? It is about most of the free cultural life where there will be a great deal of support. Local journalism must also be mentioned here. They are the ones who report a lot about our local and regional policy, which is closest to people. There is good local knowledge here that allows citizens to participate in the political debate at home. Here we also see a declining advertising market and that smaller newspapers will have a very tough future. The government has worked quickly with support for different parts of society. It should have a lot of praise for that. But many of these efforts are also needed for the media and culture industry, where there is absolutely no shortage of work, at least not in the media right now. It is therefore important that the support that can also come to the media and culture industry in the future should end up with those who need that support most and not just go to the media's big owners.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-53	Madam President, I would like Rarely has the value of having free media been more evident than in these times. Covid-19 has made us all big consumers of information. The fact that we then have the media shouldering their responsibility to bring forward factual information while critically reviewing it is extremely important. Public service plays a central role here. Public service is simplified public service television and radio. We Christian Democrats believe that the mission of Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio plays an important role in our democracy and our open society. We have expressed ourselves in a motion as follows: Christian Democrats are in favour of an independent public service capable of providing independent and objective news media. One of the basic prerequisites of public services is independence from political and commercial influence. These are clear, strong and important words. It follows that we naturally welcome the fact that there is a lively discussion about how that mission is managed and carried out. Silence can never be an option, censorship definitely not, but conversation. The fact that we as elected representatives can talk about how public services manage the mission we have given them, together with more than SEK 50 billion for the current period, is not only a good but an obligation as soon as possible. In this there is no threat to the free media, because conversations and censorship do not thrive. They are, if we think about it a little, the opposite of each other. Free media are threatened with silence as a matter of urgency, not conversation or discussion. We Christian Democrats have been clear that we want to review the mission and narrow it down so that the focus is on the core business. Entertainment productions such as dieting programs for dogs and dating series for priests, I am a priest, can be carried out with advantage by commercial actors and create space for us to strengthen regional surveillance. Madam President, I would like Finally, I note that the Party Executive of the Christian Democrats in November last year wrote the following: Public service also plays a very important role as an intermediary of pure social information. This applies in everyday life but even more in difficult times, such as in crisis or war. We know today, when the concerns of all of us about how this pandemic is to develop, how valuable and important our public service is.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-59	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that it is wonderful to hear that so many are talking about the importance of the media and culture in the time that is now. They are probably needed more than ever at the same time as they face major challenges. Right then, it is most important to safeguard freedom and independence. Madam President, I would like When you listen to the debate in this House but also in society, you sometimes get the impression that everyone feels the same. Actually, it's just the reality description that separates. You're trying to control, says one. No, I'm not, but you're the one trying to control, says the other. You can see the mote in the other's eye, but you can't see the beam in your own eye. Madam President, I would like Let's get a little bit out of this. There's a difference between what you run as a politician. If you say to a newspaper editor: You should comply with environmental legislation, that's okay. But if you say to a newspaper or a newsroom: You should review the climate crisis from a particular perspective, that's not okay. If you tell the theater director to make sure girls on stage aren't harassed, that's okay. The theatre must comply with the legislation on health and safety at work. But if you say to the theater director, you're going to put up pieces with feminist orientation, that's not okay. There's a difference between what you control and what you can't control. It is no wonder to demand that media action and others comply with legislation. What goes wrong is when you say that articles, plays or exhibitions should have a certain political tendency. There's a big difference in how to run things. We're supposed to have arm's length between politics and content. Why is this so important? It's because the media and culture have such an incredible inherent power. For man is a narrative being. Whoever has control over the stories also has control over how we interpret history, how we see the present and what dreams we have about the future. Anyone who wants to govern the future and the present will benefit greatly by also having the ability to control the narrative institutions, the media and culture. That is also why we are seeing historically and today how those who want power over people are attacking these very institutions. A society does not only have a physical infrastructure in the form of roads and railways. We also have an intellectual infrastructure. And anyone who has control over intellectual infrastructure, Madam President, also has control over people's thinking. It sets the framework for what you can think and what you can't think. That is what we see examples of some politicians trying to change in exhibitions. That's what we see examples of when you try to influence media engagements. That is what we see examples of when you want to stop lectures on LGBTQ issues. This is what we see when you want to control which literature libraries should buy. These are examples of trying to limit people's thoughts and lead them in a certain direction. This is what we should be looking out for. Madam President, I would like If you want more freedom in society, you have to start by safeguarding the freedom of the media and the independence of culture.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-69	Madam President, I would like What threats do we see to the freedom and independence of culture and the media today? Christer Nylander mentioned this a little bit in his speech. We see threats and hatreds against free artists and journalists that lead to the risk of silence of the free culture and professional practitioners of the free word. We see the tough working conditions of artists and journalists, low fees, tight deadlines and impossible working hours that make professional practitioners have to turn themselves in and out of themselves and may still not be able to make a living. We see authoritarian tendencies in powerful politicians who understand the power of culture and order and therefore strive to direct art and the media to strengthen their own position and cement their own worldview. Madam President, I would like It is also a harsh, sometimes unforgiving, climate of conversation that is not perceived as allowing dissenting voices with the disappointing result that conversations no longer take place. These are some of the threats. They have different characteristics, but unfortunately the end result is the same: silence. When the conversation, the free art and the questioning and sometimes uncomfortable journalism stop, we are all losers. Silence leads to narrowness and intellectual wantonness. And then, Madam President, democracy loses its power. Madam President, I would like The government has done a great deal to strengthen the independence of the media and increase their ability to conduct professional journalism throughout the country. Public service independence has been strengthened. We have secured a broad public service that is relevant to everyone, which is important not least in times of crisis. The media and media support system has been reformed so that more money is allocated to the media while a new support for journalistic coverage of white spots has been introduced. We have set up an investigation for, among other things, constitutional protection of public services, and the VAT for digital newspapers has been strengthened. Even in culture, things have happened. We have taken steps to strengthen the conditions for cultural creators. The relatively new Museum Act establishes the principle of arm's length distance and the status of museums as independent knowledge institutions. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has been given an important task to investigate how the principle of arm's length distance is respected both in the state support to cultural life and in regional and municipal activities. These, Madam President, are important steps. I am prepared to take further steps to strengthen the freedom of culture and the independence of the media, and I very much look forward to this further debate.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-78	Madam President, I would like The concept of media pluralism is often mentioned by most parties in this House. A well-functioning media pluralism can only be achieved with fair and clear rules and a balance between government companies operating and the independent commercial media sector. Here it will be an observatory for politics to pay attention to so that the balance is not upset. There's one thing a lot of people from the media in the country get in touch with me about. It is the new waste paper regulation. It must be stopped and lifted. It is absurd to impose this burden on the media industry, which would cost the industry a total of SEK 465 million. Then you should also know that the collection rate in Sweden is already 90 per cent over time. I would like an answer to this.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-80	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I share Lotta Finstorp's view that media pluralism is absolutely central. We need a broad public service, and we also need a diversity of independent commercial media. This applies not least to newspapers and news media in writing that are able to reach out to everyone around our country who may not have the digital opportunities that many of us have. As far as the issue of paper collection is concerned, this is something that the media have also brought to my attention. We need to find a balance between good collection systems so that we increase the collection rate of all fractions, including paper magazines. But of course we must also continue to strengthen journalism in Sweden. There the government has said that we will continue to work to do just that. The issue of the paper-paper regulation is something that is still under preparation, and we are aware of how important the issue is for the media.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-82	Madam President, I would like Let us continue with media pluralism. I know that there is a proposal from newspaper publishers and others about the media and press support for the smaller newspapers. They receive the aid once a month. If, instead, it could be paid out for the whole year now that it is such an emergency, the newspapers might survive. We in the country need our smaller newspapers.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-83	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis has certainly demonstrated the importance of independent media reaching out to everyone. I met representatives of the media industry the other day, and I have received many different types of suggestions on how we can make it easier for them in this emergency situation. We are looking at them now, and this is one of the proposals that has been made.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-84	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture, for an important and so far constructive debate on how we gather together and nationally stick together for culture and civil society in these times! I would like to touch on an issue that is precisely about a free, diverse and independent media landscape. We see that a few large international commercial companies are increasingly in control of our democratic infrastructure. It's about Facebook, Google, Youtube and other great giants who not only have the ability to collect big data, as it is called, but who also have the ability to control which voices may be heard or not heard in the broad flow of social media and so on. How does the Minister view this problem and the restriction of media freedom that it can actually mean?
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-87	Madam President, I would like This is an important perspective that Aron Emilsson raises. I believe that the position and conditions of global media giants will need to be discussed more. This is true, for example, now that we have the situation with Corona and when the advertising market is failing for many of our domestic paper and news media. This raises the question – and it has also come to me – of, for example, the taxation of these global giants. This is something we are working on from the government within the framework of the OECD to try to find a reasonable system for. It has also highlighted the responsibility for, for example, hatred, threats and violations of the law. We see how many of the actors have taken greater responsibility for eliminating pure violations of the law, and I think that is important. At the same time, we are going to balance it all, and it is important to say that freedom of expression is, of course, absolutely fundamental in Sweden.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-90	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I would like to put another question on the subject of media policy. It's just a public service issue. During the debate so far, we have heard many agree that talks are not censorship but rather the opposite of censorship. This is a sentence that I share and which I expressed early on following the well-known invitation of the public service broadcasters to the Committee on Culture. Is it the Minister's view that we can discuss the broadcasting licence, which already contains supply and content, without calling calls for censorship?
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-93	Madam President, I would like We will certainly have a political discussion on broadcasting permits. It was very intense during the year that passed. There were differences of opinion, and I'm glad we landed where we did. Then I maintain that it is wrong to call public service managers because they have views on individual programmes and the like. I think it is important to keep the arm's length distance between parliamentary policy and public service. Of course, there should be contact areas to be able to get answers to questions and the like and to conduct a dialogue but not on the basis of individual views about publications.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-95	Madam President, I would like This debate was called for after the Swedish Democrats requested that the managers of the public service companies be called to the Parliament's Committee on Culture because the Swedish democrats seem to want to control the programme and comment on the programme leaders for their possible political stance. A number of other political events had also taken place in this context. Sofia Lenninger, former head of culture and library in Sölvesborg Municipality, wrote in DN Debate that she had to leave her position because she opposed the Swedish democrats' illegal policy of restricting the library's service to people with mother tongues other than Swedish. Another example is the police report drawn up against Norrköping City Museum's exhibition. A third example is the 26 managers who have left Hörby municipality since the Swedish Democrats took over the government a year ago. Employees in various newspapers testify to harassment and attempts to establish a culture of silence. Madam President, I would like The examples are becoming more serious and, unfortunately, they seem to be increasing. Aron Emilsson is in the speaker's chair here talking about versatility and that this should characterize cultural and media life. But where the Swedish democrats rule, they actually restrict the same. We Social Democrats cannot stress enough how important it is that we have a free cultural life and the importance of independent journalistic – especially in times like these. The actions of the Swedish democrats here in the autumn but also in the aforementioned municipalities should be seen as a clear warning flag. The question is whether the Moderates and Christian Democrats will henceforth sharpen their vigilance towards the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like Socially, we are currently in a very different situation from that which called for this debate. The world is fighting a pandemic, and Sweden is no exception. The country's public activities now have far-reaching economic consequences, but despite this, culture and sport in Sweden have been set up, and for that they should have a recognition and a thank you.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-103	Madam President, I would like As a former student in history and political science, I am a friend of source criticism. I can begin by informing everyone who is watching and following this debate that the Swedish Democrats have never called the heads of public service companies to the Committee on Culture. On the other hand, we wanted the Bureau of the Committee on Culture to deal with the matter and then have a discussion and discussion on it with the Committee. The fact that one may then choose to abandon the parliamentary order and discuss the issue in the media rather than in committee, I do not make any further comments than that it can be seen as remarkable.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-104	Madam President, I would like And I have a law degree and have carefully reviewed what it was that the Swedish Democrats did. It was hoped that the public service directors would be called to the committee for comments on the content of the programme and the various political positions of the programmers. In view of this, the Bureau did not wish to proceed with the matter, which is quite right. Therefore, my continued question is how the Swedish Democrats will live up to their desire for versatility when one wants to comment on the content of the programme and the programme leaders' possible political positions.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Redar, for giving me the opportunity to clarify this once again! I believe in conversations, and I believe that conversations are the opposite of censorship. That is our contribution to versatility. I also hope that the Social Democracy can appreciate the value of the fact that more new, strong voices in cultural and media life can be heard and that one can allow a free debate to flourish and not be stifled by too many pointers and von oben-attitude. I believe that democracy requires a free exchange of views.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-109	Madam President, I would like These days I have received many e-mails from the elderly who very much want a stronger cultural offering in public services play services when they are at home in quarantine. In the light of globalisation, digitalisation and technological development, I think it is high time we really strengthened the media policy debate on how we can finance and support Swedish media in the time we are in. I clearly believe that we will need to strengthen the Swedish media supply.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-111	Madam President, I would like Free arts are one of our most important means of safeguarding freedom of expression. We look with great concern at all kinds of radicalisation and extremism with anti-democratic pre-signs, whether religious or political. In these contexts, cultural policy can contribute to increased dialogue, good conversation and dissemination of knowledge. Culture concerns everyone. It is a question of education and a prerequisite for democracy. But it also gives us the tools to explore who we are as humans and what context we are in. I appreciate culture as an excellent path to social inclusion. Culture is not a pipe of its own, but it is the kitt that holds us people together and builds bridges between us. Madam President, I would like Creating good conditions for art and culture is also about highlighting how cultural policy is related to all other policy areas. We need to see culture in a cross-sectoral context, and there is much more to do here. The cultural policy objectives set in 2009 indicate the direction that the state should set for cultural policy. Culture should be a challenging and untying force on the basis of freedom of expression – this is something we have to protect every day – but the scope for interpretation seems to be huge. For the Moderates, it goes without saying that the arm's length approach between politics and cultural practitioners means the most fundamental thing, that is, that art should be free and protected from political mischievousness. The arm's length approach must be a reality. The state should not go in and rule and condition. But I wonder if my arm is shrinking.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-116	Madam President, I would like The conflict between us and other parties in cultural policy lies in the fact that in many respects we have a broader culture view and take into account the different cultural concepts, their intrinsic value and instrumental values and characteristics. We want to see all the nuances of culture. Culture is largely about communication, and it becomes strange when the January parties say in words, above all, that they look at the intrinsic value of culture while at the same time making use of the instrumental values of culture in action. The ability of art to challenge, provoke and help people grow are instrumental values, and to promote provocative art is to promote a particular cultural instrumental value. We can only say that. It is clear to us that both the humanist and the anthropological cultural concept must be discussed in cultural policy. We reflect on the different dimensions of culture and the importance of dimensions for communication. There is no contradiction between the cohesion of culture and democratic values because communication is a prerequisite for democracy. We need to understand each other in order to make good decisions for Sweden. It is clear that we are gathering around symbols in times of crisis and concern. More and more people are now replacing the party symbol with the Swedish flag on the jacket team, and the government is now speaking in front of the Swedish flag and not the EU's. It is positive that we politicians are rallying around our common symbols in the difficult crisis that the country is currently in. The conflict in the debate on artistic freedom and media freedom lies for us to some extent in the expert power where other parties want to allow the profession to decide how public funds for art and media are to be used. It is clear to us that, in addition to this, we need to strengthen democratic anchoring. The media landscape needs to be freer in order to highlight more perspectives and the world's complexity. This means a less long-term dependence on public funds for commercial operators and new systems to strengthen objectivity, transparency and relevance as people can choose for themselves what cultural values and perspectives they want to highlight. With a decision-making system that in itself strengthens cohesion, it becomes a
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-120	Madam President, I would like I think that Aron Emilsson was into something very interesting when he said that the cultural views of the Swedish democrats differ from those of others. In the next step he said that the Liberals and others are instrumental because we want to use culture and see it as a way of liberating people and challenging thoughts. My question is: is it not also instrumental to want to use culture to strengthen cohesion in Sweden?
i-GwAH9Lc86SkwtCBxGmL9mf	Madam President, I would like Answer yes.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-122	Madam President, I would like Then we come back to this that I see that my own control is right and that other people's controls are wrong. This is precisely the idea of Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats: They want to use culture to steer the way they want people to think. As long as it strengthens Swedish, as long as it strengthens cohesion, it is right. But if you challenge people to think freely, then it's wrong. That's the big difference. I want free cultural life and free media. The Swedish Democrats want to use culture more to control people's thoughts.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-124	Madam President, I would like If there are any who have thought freely in the cultural debate in recent years, it should be the Swedish Democrats who come in with new perspectives that can be debated in this House. That should be extremely positive for the cultural debate in that case. I also believe in a free and diverse cultural life and that a provocative and free art can exist alongside the public's responsibility to actually strengthen civil dialogue and popular support. We have to stop looking at this as separate drainpipes, as if popular anchoring and civil dialogue are one thing and the will of the profession is another. The elected representatives, elected representatives and professionals need to go hand in hand.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-126	Madam President, I would like The free culture and free media are basically about our constitutional freedom of expression. The importance of a diversity of perspectives, of reflections, of source criticism and of education is always great for a well-functioning society. Not least is this evident in a social crisis such as the one we are currently experiencing. We humans have a need for culture and a wide range of information channels. It does not end in times of crisis. On the contrary, we see how the creativity and commitment that are now emerging are amazingly beneficial to many of us. Cultural workers and institutions are now finding digital ways to reach a broad audience in these times when we should not meet so many in the same place. Madam President, I would like In some countries and also in Sweden, nationalist and populist parties and leaders are slowly but surely trying to undermine trust in our liberal democracy by attacking the independent and cultural institutions of the media. It is a frightening development that I and the Center Party will counteract with all the power that exists in our party. Culture has great value for us humans in its own right. It should not be directed to influence a society in a particular direction. We need public funding in order for everyone in society to have access to culture, but one must be free to turn and turn the perspective of their artistic works and processes. Madam President, I would like A broad and free cultural life throughout the country together with more free media is important and in many ways absolutely crucial for a functioning democracy. Thank you for the floor, and take care of each other!
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-132	Madam President, I would like A large part of this debate is about public service. For the Left Party, public service is the entire country's and all residents' companies. There should be something for everyone, from the smallest to the oldest. It's supposed to reflect the whole country. You should be able to recognize yourself. You should hear your dialect in the various public service channels. You should be able to see people and destiny that you can identify with. You should also be able to take part in large cultural events, such as galas, in public service. If something happens, you should also know where to turn if you need quick information that is reviewed. We will never all be satisfied with everything that is written in the newspapers or that is broadcast on television and on the radio. However, as elected representatives of the people and as members of political parties, we have a great responsibility not to undermine confidence in public service by raising our own ideological criticism or expressing great distrust of the independence of the media or journalists. Madam President, I would like We are in a serious crisis, as very many debaters have, of course, mentioned today. In such times, it is incredibly important that the media and the population are good at reviewing sources and do not spread further errors or myths. There have been reports that during the situation with the Corona virus there is both mythology and a poor source review in many media. For me, who is usually on the Committee on Defence, this is a very important issue. We must be able to have a society in which we are critical of what is being written and we are also good at reviewing and searching for information. That is my final call: always be source critical! Don't spread myths!
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-137	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have in recent weeks put forward a series of sharp proposals to help among the crisising companies in Sweden. Among other things, we have highlighted the situation of media houses, where advertising revenue has now quickly disappeared in a situation where journalists are really needed more than ever. There we now have a proposal which we hope the government and its support parties will adopt, namely pay support for newspapers. It is important that we do something, and it is important that we do something quickly. Today I am replacing our cultural political spokesperson Roland Utbolt, who is unfortunately ill and bedridden and therefore unable to attend. The debate we have today is not only about the media but also about culture. I would therefore like to read out what Roland Utbolt wrote in a recent debate article, in which he highlights both of these perspectives in one of the evening papers: The independence of the media should be protected and the entire cultural life should be free! ..................................................... On the eve of this debate, of course, I was thinking about what culture is. It's very hard to sum up. For many of us, I think that a concert, a book, a TV programme or a music lesson is a concrete expression of what culture can be in your and my everyday life. But I do want to touch in some way on what is the basis of culture. We Christian Democrats see that culture helps you and me to broaden our reality and our imagination. Culture helps us grow as empathetic people, so it is an important part of a cohesive society. Culture, like morality, holds together communities. It is involved in creating the conditions for a good society. The political objective must therefore be to support, not to govern, and to give everyone the opportunity to participate in a strong and independent cultural life.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-144	Madam President, I would like There are some who have raised the discussion that talks are not the same as censorship. I really agree with that. But it is clear that when you have the money bag in one hand and the legislative power in the other you have to be very careful also when talking because you then have an influence that is quite large. Of course, if you have great power and strength, you have to be particularly careful. This is perhaps particularly true in the situation we are in right now, where many national populist forces and other forces in the world are moving forward and trying to limit culture and the media. It happens in Europe, and it happens in Sweden. One must be particularly careful in a situation where there are those who say: Paint over that artist's work, because we do not like that! Get those books out of the library because we don't like them! Have the right angle in the story! Madam President, I would like We must do more to strengthen freedom and independence for the media and culture. We need to maintain arm's length. We must have greater economic diversity so that we are not dependent on just one bag of money. You have to be able to turn to someone else if you want to do something that is not appreciated by the person who finances you in the first place. We must have a political debate. That is why I should like to thank you very much for the debate we have had today. It has been important, and we must continue to have that debate. We politicians need to get our act together. We have to understand that we have power, and people will be affected by us. Therefore, we should be extra careful when exercising this power and when discussing what we think should happen in the cultural world. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that the politician who has to want opinions on works of art or books can rather become an artist or writer than try to use political power to influence himself.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-151	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the initiative in this debate. The discussion we are having here today should be more and more serious in our country. It is very alarming when discussions are silenced in a democracy. I would like to take this opportunity to put a question to Christer Nylander, the representative of one of the January parties. Many call and worry: When will the money arrive?
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-154	Madam President, I would like Right now, the problem around Sweden is that the money doesn't seem to come anywhere. A lot of people have problems. Companies don't get paid, newspapers don't get advertising revenue, freelance and cultural workers get to see everything cancelled and cinemas close. We have taken this issue very seriously in the January parties, and we have already introduced a large cultural and sporting package. The money will come out as soon as possible in society so that it will do as much good as possible. It should be done through the expert authorities so that the money is deposited where it is needed.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-156	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that it is important that it be done as soon as possible. Culture should be free, and there should be no political pointers about how the money should be distributed.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-157	Madam President, I would like As much as possible, as soon as possible and as freely as possible. We are in complete agreement on that.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-158	Madam President, I would like I know that the Liberals have been characterized by being a freedom-based education party that stands for knowledge and education. I basically believe that Christer Nylander is responsible for this. When choosing to hook arms and support the Green Party as a government party and governing cultural policy, is Christer Nylander in any way problematizing the trend towards debate museums, which even liberals have expressed in the free media over the last two years?
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-160	Madam President, I would like I think it is problematic and wrong to try to control politics and the media, no matter where it is done. That's why I stand up for increased freedom and arm's length. That was also one of the reasons why I thought it was right for the Liberals to support the agreement made with the government. It would have been much worse if the Swedish Democrats had gained a decisive influence in the Swedish parliament, not least in terms of culture and the media.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-161	Madam President, I would like So Nylander still believes that it is a problem today that more and more knowledge institutions – museums, cultural schools – are transformed into running normative activities? However, their work is based on the fact that there is a party in charge of cultural policy in the country, which, not least by the parties in this House, has an instrumental view of establishing a break over cultural policy as a whole.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-162	Madam President, I would like When one thinks that there is a standard governing knowledge institutions and educational institutions, the answer to that criticism is not to put forward another norm, but to increase freedom.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-163	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you very much for the initiative taken by the Liberals and Christer Nylander. We have had to stand here today and talk about media and culture. This is what I'm thinking is the point. However, why I asked for the floor is that I felt that Christer Nylander was suspicious of the openness of the discussion, which we Christian Democrats, too, stand for, about how public services live up to the mission that we, as elected politicians, have given them.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-165	Madam President, I would like I do not suspect, but I want us as politicians to be aware that when we take part in such talks we have more power than others. That is because we have the opportunity to use legislation and the budget. When you have more power, be very careful.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-167	Madam President, I would like Then I can see that Liberals and Christian Democrats are in complete agreement here. I would just like to emphasise once again that the Christian Democrats, and therefore I, believe that censorship never lives well in a culture in which we talk, discuss and show respect for each other's views and where we dare to problematise when the situation is given. It is silence that is the great enemy of free culture and the media.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-170	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Mr Eklind on this. I might add that we also need to problematise the risk of self-censorship. For this reason, it is important that we politicians be careful because we have power and money. Then there is the risk that others will adapt to our views and concerns. That is why we politicians should be very careful when we speak on various issues of substance policy.
i-34f7b5fece3a611c-172	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking all Members for the debate. It is important that we discuss cultural policy in this House, and it is important to have a lively debate on the freedom of culture and arm's length in general. It is also important that we conduct this debate honestly. I want to raise another perspective about freedom of art. The debate sometimes hear voices that the solution to a free culture is a lack of public funding. That would solve the problem. I would like to point out here that excessive unilateral dependence, whether it is on the state, on the market or on private financiers, is not good. We must promote a broad funding base for culture and, of course, media pluralism. Public cultural policy is important for this. We're not abdicating. We play a strong and important role in protecting artistic freedom in so many ways.
