i-df564da4f89ac162-5	Madam President, I would like I would like very briefly to highlight reservation 7 from the Left Party. It is about something that may sound boring and boring but which is very central and important to the state authorities. It's about the price and salary recalculation. The state uses a model that can be said to mean a constant saving on the authorities, since the wage model used involves, for example, private call centres. There is a certain difference between working in a call centre to carry out the exercise of authority, which entails a very large and extensive responsibility with rights and legislation in a very comprehensive way. That is why we believe that a review of this model needs to be carried out, so that we come from a way of working that means that we must constantly keep on cutting backs in the state authorities.
i-df564da4f89ac162-6	Madam President, I would like This report deals with many motions in a number of areas relating to state administration. I will be brief and say that the digitisation that is now coordinated by D igg, the Swedish Digital Administration Agency, has a very important job to do in order for public Sweden to meet the challenges that we, as citizens, are putting on society and the services that we expect to be able to take our fair share of. Already today we live in a contemporary with artificial intelligence, for example, and in the coming years public Sweden will also make more use of this type of technology but also secure the right to privacy and legal certainty. Transparency and efficient management continue to be important to maintain confidence in the state and its activities. I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-df564da4f89ac162-9	Madam President, I would like I'm going to be even more brief. We Moderates, of course, support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 3.
i-df564da4f89ac162-10	Madam President, I would like Digitalisation and IT in the state administration are, of course, very important issues, not least the question of the possibility of getting government mailed electronically. The Christian Democrats have very reasonable and balanced proposals here. I therefore request the approval of reservation 5.
i-df564da4f89ac162-12	Madam President, I would like A lot of people are worried right now. It is a very dramatic and uncertain time in which we find ourselves. We now face an extraordinary situation as a society. Of course, the spread of the Corona virus and the increase in the number of people who fall ill in covid-19 worry us all. The virus is, above all, a danger to life and health throughout the world and in our country. At the same time, this has led to a very serious economic situation, both globally and at home in Sweden. We see growth falls and forecasts that we have not seen for a very long time, not since the financial crisis and perhaps not even then in all aspects. The whole of society is economically affected at a very rapid rate. That is why we must act together quickly and together to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. The proposal that we have today at Parliament's table is about this very thing, about Swedish jobs and companies around our country. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are now facing urgent financing needs. The liquidity of banks and credit institutions needs to be provided to fundamentally viable companies. Therefore, we want to enable the state to issue credit guarantees of up to SEK 100 billion for loans from the banks to primarily small and medium-sized enterprises. The state, i.e. the citizens and taxpayers, should take on credit risk. Then more money can also come out and save companies from going down and thereby also protect Swedish jobs here and now but also create the conditions for growth forward. Madam President, I would like This isn't our only effort. On the contrary, it is a measure in the line of very many. First of all, the disease should be combated with all the necessary resources. We have already announced that the state will bear the extraordinary health costs of the regions and municipalities due to the Corona virus, while at the same time providing more resources for state authorities working against the infection and the spread of the disease. Lack of money should not, and must not, stand in the way of health care work. We have also presented large, powerful crisis packages to save jobs and businesses, in addition to what is currently on the table, with great support to lift costs away from businesses and with very comprehensive credit guarantees. In addition to today's credit guarantees, for example, efforts are directed directly at small and medium-sized enterprises through increased lending opportunities from Almi. A new system of short-term lay-off is also being introduced. This reduces the wage cost for the employer by more than half. In addition, the State will assume the cost of sickness pay, and employers' contributions will be reduced. For particularly affected sectors, the government will also contribute to reduced rental costs. These are very strong efforts to lift costs away from the pressured companies. On Monday, we were also able to present measures to deal with the rise in unemployment. It is not least a question of strengthening the financial security of those people who, despite all their efforts, will still lose their jobs as a result of the Corona crisis. The threshold for unemployment insurance is lowered while the level of benefits is increased. More people, including those in precarious employment, should be able to benefit from insurance cover. So we are making a huge effort to save jobs and to strengthen the security of those who still lose their jobs. Madam President, I would like The economic policy of recent years has to a very large extent been about equipping Sweden and the Swedish economy. Now we are going to use our strong public finances to secure well-being, businesses and jobs. There is no doubt whatsoever that we have a heavy and trying time ahead of us. But, of course, we're going to get through this too, and we're going to do that together. I support the committee's proposal.
i-df564da4f89ac162-23	Madam President, I would like The Corona virus is primarily a threat to human life and health. All the efforts that are now being made should primarily be about reducing the spread of infection and caring for those who become ill. Unfortunately, we have to prepare for a much worse situation before things get better again. But together we will get through this too. Measures to reduce the spread of infection have also triggered an economic crisis, which we have unfortunately only seen the beginning of. If we make mistakes, we will lose thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of jobs. People have their security and livelihood in their jobs, which will be lost if we do not do the right thing. We now all need to be helped to cooperate for the good of Sweden. We also need to come up with proposals to mitigate the effects of this crisis. And we must reduce the spread of infection and improve the conditions and conditions for health and social care workers who are currently working under tough conditions and, Madam President, will face even worse problems and challenges in the coming months. We must also protect Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. Let me say that it is a good thing that the government is listening to the proposals we Moderates put forward and that we urgently come back to Parliament with proposals on the very things we have proposed. We Moderates will do our best to get the Government's proposals through the Riksdag as quickly as possible. They should be dealt with and decided promptly, and measures should be put in place to mitigate these effects. Many small and medium-sized companies with a high staffing density – we are talking about restaurants and hotels – and where many people have their livelihood, Madam President, have very few guarantees. Right now they are also without revenue. This means that there is no commercial bank today that lends money to them. We have to deal with this in some way. The proposal before us today, which from the outset is the proposal that we Moderates put forward on a business matter, is precisely intended to deal with this. These companies will not be able to borrow money as it stands today. However, with a business case, the risk of the loans issued by the banks can be largely taken by the State. Then the banks can carry out the type of lending that we want them to do, even though they do not currently have either revenue or collateral. We will have the credit granting through the National Debt Office and in this way ensure that the banks can be the ones that lend the money, manage credit granting and rating, but the government takes a large part of the risk. Unfortunately, the Government's proposal differs on two points from that presented by the Moderates. First, it is simply a question of the State taking 90% of the risk in the moderate proposal. The government and the cooperation parties have reduced it to the state taking only 70% of the risk. In addition, the government demands full payment from the banks, which will then pass on the costs to the companies of the risk that it entails for the State to take these credit guarantees. We Moderates thought that the state would heavily subsidise that particular charge, because what we are looking at now is a major economic crisis where the risk to the state will be significant and the charges for these loans therefore very high. What does this mean in the end? Well, that means that fewer companies will dare or have the opportunity to take these loans because they become too expensive. This, in turn, means that more companies will go bankrupt and that more jobs will be lost. Madam President, I would like The government does a good job, comes forward quickly with proposals and listens to the proposals that we Moderates put forward, among other things. But very often the proposals get too bureaucratic. They become too expensive for companies to use. That criticism comes in agreement from various organisations representing the business community, and it comes from us in the political opposition. If it becomes too much bureaucracy and too expensive for companies to take part in the support measures, we will lose jobs and lose companies that were viable before the crisis, and that is very unnecessary, Madam President. This business thing could've gotten better. All parties of the Riksdag could have been consulted before returning to the Riksdag with the proposals. Now it's not done. At the same time, we urgently need to get these measures in place. This means that, at this point, we will be in favour of the proposal, but it could have been improved. Let us work together for the best in Sweden! Let's protect jobs and businesses all over Sweden!
i-df564da4f89ac162-35	Madam President, I would like In recent weeks it has been about jobs, jobs, jobs, almost 24 hours a day, to do what goes to secure Swedish jobs and companies and above all make sure that public Sweden does everything to protect life and health. Today, we are debating another step in our efforts to protect Swedish companies and jobs. These are opportunities for liquidity via commercial banks, where a proper part of the risk is taken by the state. 70% of the commercial banks' risk taking in the new borrowing via the facility that we are about to decide on is taken by the state. It is the right thing to do, but it must be seen in context. We are working on a relatively broad front right now. It is about raising costs from employers and ensuring that as few companies as possible are forced into redundancies and bankruptcies. It is about the abolition of sickness pay and the short-term lay-off that is now being used to a very large extent at a substantial cost to the state. It is also about the reduction in employers' contributions that has been presented and decided on here today. In the last two weeks, we have broken a new Swedish record in tax cuts, simply because we have to lift costs from the job creators we want to keep after the Corona crisis. We follow this, day by day and hour by hour. It is not at all impossible that we must continue to work with relief to protect Swedish jobs and companies. What we are debating today is part of what has been done to strengthen liquidity. We have now secured new sources of liquidity in a short time through the tax account – you can get back the tax you have paid to strengthen liquidity in the short term. We have strengthened Almi, the Export Credit Board and other state actors that already exist and function today and are an important support for Swedish companies. They should have the best opportunities to continue to act. But for most companies, not least for small businesses, the bank itself is the main and easiest source of liquidity. The banks' relatively strong balance sheets have to work. We must see continued lending to our companies so that they continue to act. Therefore, it is now reasonable for the state to go in and take a large part of the risk that banks will dare to act. This also means that we must now see that commercial banks, not least the big banks, are taking their social responsibility. Now it's about keeping the wheels running and ensuring that you follow up on good old customers, business contacts and companies and that this continues to work in these very tough times. It is up to the evidence of our Swedish banks. They must show that they are also social players to be trusted in this very tough situation. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the bill.
i-df564da4f89ac162-43	Madam President, I would like You can agree with most of what Emil Källström said, maybe even everything. It's a matter of having some guarantee... maybe he said something that I didn't pay attention. I think it is very good that we are trying to work towards coherence in this serious situation. You can see how the crisis is sweeping the world. This morning we could even see Donald Trump very taken by the gravity of the moment. The perception that this epidemic is very serious is starting to sink in there too. Even Bolsonaro is beginning to see the problems that exist, both in his country and around the world, although he seems to have a piece left to walk. A while ago when I came here, I called my mother. I call her every day, but in these times I get to call a little more often than otherwise-- now it's going to be several times a day. There are a lot of people sitting alone at home, so I'd like to send with you all: Call more often! Send a letter, and create jobs as well! Do what you can to break the loneliness! This morning, for example, the newspaper was able to read about what was called coronafika. Neighbors opened the doors, sat in each of their apartments and exhibited a small coffee table at each door, and so they sat there and spoke at a stable distance so as not to meet too close. You find new ways to hang out safely, and it's good to see. The reform we are now discussing could well be said to be classic Swedish. It's about credit guarantees, where the government goes in and takes risks. The companies benefiting from the loans will have to pay a fee for this. The State believes that the loans should be both amortisation and interest-free for the first year and eventually expects a repayment of the loans when the economy has reversed. So it has worked before, and so it hopefully will work again this time. A credit assessment is carried out in the manner that should be carried out before a loan is granted. The fee is set on the basis of the risk assessment carried out by the bank of the company. The State has also decided that companies taking part in the loans should not be allowed to make dividends or apply additional bonus schemes during this period. It is also a good measure, because if taxpayers go in and take risks, the owners cannot, on the other hand, be supposed to withdraw money from the companies. The very thing about taking money out of the companies is, I mean, a problem. We can look at what it has looked like in Sweden for quite a few years. Share dividends have been very large as a proportion of the profits made. Yes, even when there were losses, dividends have been collected. This makes the companies very fragile, and they also find it much more difficult to face a crisis and even more difficult to face a crisis like this, which would have been difficult even if they had retained some of the dividends in the companies. So we get more fragile companies with the large dividends that have been, and I hope that this will lead to some kind of reflection and change among the owners of the companies. What we're doing is saving jobs and viable businesses. This package is one way. I also appreciate very much that the proposal on the unemployment fund has finally arrived; we have been asking for it for a long time. It is about people who lose their jobs and must have financial security. The reductions in the regulatory framework and the increased levels of remuneration have been necessary for a long time. Our starting point is that they should not be temporary. We need security in society, which is why we need a good unemployment fund. I would also like to make two other points. What is still missing is money for the local government sector. There are still cuts and savings, and we also see that there is a need for extensive training in the care of the elderly, not least in order to prevent the spread of infection, but also targeted at all those who are now running as substitutes in a hard-on business. There would therefore be a need for a large, permanent package of supplements to the local government sector. What I also lack are measures against the overcrowding that is around our country. When you live very crowded, the risk of transmission is greater. I still haven't seen anything there, and I hope it will come. Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the committee's proposal, and I support it.
i-df564da4f89ac162-56	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a difficult position. We have a very serious spread of infection, and we have a particularly serious economic situation. People see their life's work merge in front of their eyes. We have premonition figures at historical levels that we have never seen before. We have declining growth and forecasts that unemployment will increase very strongly. The crisis has a magnitude that is very extensive. Its speed is only matched by its depth. This now requires very strong, rapid action, and it requires the measures we take to be effective and scaled up to face the crisis so that we can eventually restart the economy and there is something left to restart. I have been critical of the government on some points. A great many things have been done that have been good, but not enough has been done in relation to certain measures, especially lay-off aid. There we will have the opportunity to come back and discuss what more can be done in the context of this and other support. Today, however, we are discussing the issue of credit guarantees for loans to companies in connection with the Corona virus. I think that the government and its partners are doing a very good thing here; this proposal is a good one. We Christian Democrats saw early, when the credit market dried up and the Riksbank's facility of 500 billion to be put at the disposal of the banks did not reach and did not come to be used in the way that was intended, that government credit guarantees were needed to lift risk in a system where everyone is currently fleeing risk. This is absolutely necessary to do, and it is good that it is now being proposed that the state should take a greater share of the risk – lift it away from the banks so that this money can benefit, provide liquidity, give companies a relief and thus save both businesses and jobs. That's excellent. It is also a good thing that these loans should be initially free of interest and amortisation so that they become a real injection and a liquidity boost that actually works for the companies in crisis. Of course, when the state enters and makes this commitment, it is perfectly reasonable that there should also be a requirement that bonuses, gratifications and such proposals should not occur within companies, nor, of course, large, excessive dividends to owners in a situation where the state goes in and takes this risk. I therefore support the proposal. It is good that the guarantee fees exist. It is important that we protect taxpayers in this situation so that we not only lift risk from the banks and that these are then the only ones to benefit from any profits but also ensure that profits can partly go back to those taxpayers who take part of the risk. Madam President, I would like This is an important and essentially well-designed proposal, which I support.
i-df564da4f89ac162-65	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for the efforts made every hour in Swedish healthcare. Nurses and doctors are making great efforts for our country and to ensure health and well-being at this appointed time. What we are dealing with here is about economic policy and the other side of the Corona coin, namely how it hits the Swedish and global economy. This is a very serious situation. If we do not take action, we are on the brink of mass unemployment and major social consequences. We know that when mass unemployment strikes, it means that people leave the labour market to never come back and that we have a society where cohesion is getting worse and where certain towns and regions are being knocked out and confidence in the future disappears. This is incredibly serious for a society. It is therefore important that we on the political side signal that we are prepared to do what is necessary to secure jobs in Sweden. We are now abolishing employers' contributions for four months for all Sweden's companies. We remove sickness pay liability, which means that we remove costs from Swedish companies. We do this because we want to avoid bankruptcies and secure jobs in Sweden. We make sure that people feel safe by now enabling more people to take part of the unemployment fund, not least self-employed people, who can now get unemployment benefit without having to put the company into bankruptcy forever. They can now temporarily take part in unemployment funds and then start up the company again when the demand is back. Madam President, I would like Some things that have not worked and which we are dealing with here and now are about lending from banks to our small and medium-sized enterprises not working. It's no wonder. At this point, for perfectly clear reasons, the banks do not want to take on any risk as we do not know how long the Corona crisis will be or how serious it will be. Then the state needs to take greater responsibility, a greater risk and a greater part, and that is what we are dealing with right now. I think it is an important balance and starting point that the state is doing what it can to save jobs and ensure that companies do not go bankrupt. I think it is an important starting point that the state is doing everything it can to ensure that the banking system works, that the SEK 500 billion that the Riksbank has made available to the banks now come out to the subcontractor in Karlskoga, to the small business in Gothenburg and to the new high-tech company in Lund and that the money comes out where it is most useful and used where it will be used to secure Swedish jobs and avoid future bankruptcies. Madam President, I would like I believe and make the assessment that we will have to do more. I think that developments in the world around us indicate that we are facing a serious situation now and that it will last for some time. My assessment is that we will have to do more on the political side. It can be about ensuring that municipalities and regions get more money so that staff do not have to be laid off at the next stage, it can be about more measures for Swedish companies and it can be about more measures to ensure that the labour market works better. If this is the case, then we will have to come back at the next stage, but I think it is important that the policy at this stage sends the signal that we are prepared to do what is necessary to secure Swedish jobs.
i-df564da4f89ac162-72	Madam President, I would like It is strange to stand in this speaker's chair without talking about the Corona. Both the spread of the virus and the economic effects of the virus are hitting our country. At the same time, of course, what was a problem prior to the virus's rise has not suddenly stopped being a problem. These problems remain and need to be addressed. Today we are going to debate the Barnpornography crime report and the limitation of offences against children. Madam President, I would like I should like to start by saying a few words about the child pornography crime. In substance, it is proposed to increase the minimum penalty for serious child pornography offences from six months in prison to one year in prison. It is also proposed that the person who depicts a child in a pornographic picture should be able to be punished for child pornography offences even if she or he has not had any intention but has been negligent about the fact that the person portrayed is under 18 years of age. These sharpenings are good. Madam President, I would like Reading the bill was not a pleasant reading. I had to take a break several times to be able to read on. Several organisations, including the World Childhood Foundation and Ecpat Sweden, testify to the fact that child pornography offences have increased not only, but also more and more often relate to abuse material with younger children. Among the tips on child pornography online to Ecpat Sweden's registration page was the proportion of complaints where the abuse material concerned babies 8.5 per cent and 9 per cent respectively in 2016 and 2017. It's almost impossible to understand. A Canadian organization, which has developed a method for analysing abuse material, has estimated that nearly half of the children found in the abuse images are younger than eight years old. The words are not enough to describe the cruelty suffered by these children. Madam President, I would like Several referrals point out that the name of the crime is not appropriate because the word pornography denotes legal images of adult people. Therefore, the use of the word child pornography risks reducing the abuse of children. A criminal code that several referral bodies advocate instead is documented sexual abuse of children. The exact criminal code to be applied, if it is to be changed, needs to be investigated first, of course, but we share the view that the criminal code today is misleading and does not reflect the seriousness of the crime. Therefore, the Moderates support reservation 3 that an investigation would be desirable in order to find a more appropriate and clear classification that reflects the seriousness of the crime. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about limitation. It is to be welcomed that the government is now proposing the abolition of prescriptions for rape offences and genital mutilation offences committed against children. But more crimes need to be exempted from prescription. As far as offences against children are concerned, this is particularly important, but more offences against adults should also be exempted from or extended time for prescription. As more crimes can be solved after a longer period of time, the reasons justifying the current time limits for the limitation of offences are decreasing. In our opinion, there is also reason to take much more account than today of the victim's need for redress. The provisions on limitation are also old, and both the technology and the view of several crimes, in particular crimes against persons, have changed over time. In fact, it is offensive that it is possible to avoid punishment by staying away from a certain number of years. We therefore believe that there is a need to set up an investigation to carry out a complete review of the provisions on limitation. Madam President, I would like I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Moderates, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number four.
i-HyaUJyCNmzuGGrJCCcfzYW	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Justice Committee's report 22 on the government proposal concerning the child pornography offence and the limitation of offences against children. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. Sexual crimes and crimes affecting children are among the most abominable and reprehensible acts that criminal law has to regulate. These are acts that should be followed by the most severe sanctions. Today, images are distributed via the internet incredibly much easier than when the legislation was originally developed. For the victim, it means a very severe suffering and a feeling that the abuse does not end, as the images continue to spread. Any act that goes unpunished or where the penalty is too mild is a failure in our joint work to protect our citizens from the crimes we have committed ourselves to counteract. We Swedish democrats are therefore in favour of the steps taken in this bill. We welcome all measures aimed at making it more difficult for offenders to receive too mild a penalty or even to avoid liability by hiding behind the rules of limitation. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes in the bill a stricter minimum penalty for child pornography offences. That's good. The Swedish Democrats share the view that sexual offences generally face far too low penalties compared to the suffering for the victim that the actions entail. A series of penalties in other areas have taken place in recent times, often on the initiative of the opposition through announcements, which have led to a twitchy and biased proportionality. This is something that should be addressed. We therefore propose, in line with previous proposals, an overall revision of penalties for sexual offences. The starting point should be that all scales of penalties should be reviewed in order to better match the level of blame for individual acts and to ensure compliance with the principles of proportionality and equivalence. Motion requests for this do not fall within the scope of this case, but we would nevertheless like to stress the importance of such a review being carried out. As regards the limitation of the Law Council's criticism in this part that the currently proposed exceptions to the general principles would undermine the system and lead to intransigence. The Legislative Council also argues that such a regime could lead to a reduction in the predictability and acceptance of the regulatory framework. Sweden democrats, unlike the Swedish Law Council, believe that a system in which serious crimes against children are not prosecuted – even if technical or other evidence emerges long after the crime was committed – is rather that which leads to a decrease in acceptance of the regulations. In particular, technological developments should serve as a basis for revised basic conditions for limitation. That is why we believe that the prosecuting clause should be revised. In addition, penalties should be excluded for such offences. There is also reason to examine further whether the sanctioning prescription is an institution worthy of preservation. I assume that the question of the abolition of the penalty will be covered by the investigation of the abolition of the limitation institute announced by the government in the bill. It should not pay to stay away from the execution of your sentence, no matter how long you hide from justice. The sentence imposed shall be served.
i-df564da4f89ac162-93	Madam President, I would like There are few things that feel so keen to debate in this House as what we are going to debate today, namely the child pornography crime, despite or perhaps thanks to pandemics. I read with horror in the media and read alarm reports from organisations and authorities about how vulnerability to children online is increasing at this time. People take advantage of the fact that children and young people now spend more time in quarantine times in front of the computer. At the most, I think the company Pornhub, the world's largest porn site. They are helpful in these times: They offer a free trial subscription to the Italians, to have some movies to watch while they are home so much. One should know that the company Pornhub was recently investigated by the British Sunday Times, which revealed that Pornhub conveys documented sexual abuse of children and has contributed to sex trafficking. I shudder. Madam President, I would like How is the situation in Sweden? According to Netclean, which works closely with authorities to provide detection tools for child pornography material, work computers are widely used to look at child pornography material. Previously, the police focused on prosecuting the perpetrators, that is, those who look at the material. However, it is not only enough to nail the perpetrator, but we must also prevent the material from even coming into existence. Detecting is a help to track and prosecute this, unlike porn filters that are a blocking tool. Porn filters, however, also have a function in the right environment. But we must find both the vulnerable children and those who produce pictures and films and those who watch them. Surveys from Netclean show that 1 out of 500 computers in a workplace contain abuse material. Often the material is found after holidays or long weekends. 1 out of 100 computer users actively seek this, and 1 out of 35 commits crimes. Every week, child abuse is committed in the public sector. These are incredible numbers. I shudder. Madam President, I would like Even though the world sometimes turns out to be pretty bad, I'm still hopeful. The good forces are infinitely greater and stronger, and we are many more. It is only a matter of showing ourselves, standing up for the vulnerable and making legislation and preventive work much better than today. We are taking such a step today. It is gratifying that we are now taking important decisions to protect children from abuse. The Center Party welcomes the fact that the lowest penalty for serious child pornography crime is now being raised from six months in prison to one year in prison, which is the lowest penalty. It is a more proportionate starting point for the scale of penalties for this crime, and it is a change that we have long advocated. It is also good that, with today's decision, we are ensuring that the intent for child pornography offences is in line with what already applies to other sexual offences against children. An offender shall be able to be convicted even if he claims negligence in the fact that the child has not reached a certain age. No one should be able to walk away from responsibility or hide behind the claim that one did not realize that the victim was a child. Madam President, I would like The Center Party also welcomes the abolition of the prescription for rape offences and genital mutilation committed against children. We think it is good that the government is now announcing a broader general review of the definition of limitation periods. In order to maintain confidence in the rule of law, it is important that the rules of limitation are broadly based on general legal awareness. Technological developments require a review of the question of the prescription of criminal offences. Evidence can be secured for much longer today than before. Madam President, I would like On the part of the Center Party, we have reserved ourselves in two respects against the proposal put forward by the government. On the one hand, we want an investigation to be set up to review the name child pornography crime. On the one hand, we want the crime to have a different placement in the penal code. We do not believe that the current name, child pornography crime, fully reflects the seriousness of the crime. This is about documented sexual abuse of children. The description of the offence should be made clearer. The government should therefore set up an investigation with the task of giving the crime a different name that better expresses the seriousness of downloading, watching or spreading depictions of sexual abuse. Madam President, I would like Child pornography crime is a detestable crime in so many ways. In addition to being subjected to tangible abuse, a child is also subjected to a violation every time someone takes part in pictures or films of the abuse. But despite the fact that the crime is so incredibly offensive to the individual and is one of the most serious attacks on the personal sphere, it is now considered a violation of public order. It is directly misleading and, in our opinion, totally unacceptable. When one of the most defenseless individuals in society is subjected to such a deeply offensive crime, it should be treated as a crime against a person, with the rights it entails for the victim. The individual victim must be put before administrative systems. We understand what is described in the bill – that with today's legislation there are certain problems for the judiciary – but then we have to change that. Pre-trial announcements can actually be changed by decision. This is a question of human dignity and of giving victims respect and redress. Madam President, I would like I support the Centre Party's two reservations in the report.
i-df564da4f89ac162-108	Madam President, I would like One of the most important tasks of society is to contribute to the positive growth and development of children and young people. For us Christian Democrats, children and children's rights and protection are always the first priority. Audits from Aftonbladet and Svenska Dagbladet have shown how tens of thousands of Swedes loaded ne d child pornography. It has been difficult just to read this type of review. It is even more terrible to imagine these terrible abuses. Bringing in the reality that so many children live in is difficult. It is repugnant to think that people are capable of harming children in such a cruel way. But the questions have to be on the table. According to a report from Save the Children, about 20 percent of 6,000 young high school students surveyed report that they have been subjected to some form of sexual abuse. Society therefore urgently needs to highlight and act against sexual abuse and child pornography offences against children and young people. In today's debate, we highlight the government's proposal, which raises, among other things, the minimum penalty for serious child pornography offences from six months in prison to one year in prison. What we are now discussing is legislation against child pornography offences, which have not always been a criminal act. It is enough to look back more than 20 years. During the late 1990s, the issue was raised by the Christian Democrats on the basis of high-profile legal cases. The debate at that time was not as united as the debate we are having today. Voices both in politics and in society questioned the need for and purpose of legislation that criminalises child pornography offences. I am proud today of the Christian Democratic politicians, Alf Svensson, Inger Davidson and Ingvar Svensson, who urged, so that legislation became a reality at the end of the 1990s. But it is time to move forward with further legislation when we see how the situation escalates. Madam President, I would like The proposal is a step in the right direction, but in our opinion there are no important elements in the legislation. We Christian Democrats want to go further and see more changes in this area of justice in order to combat crime and thereby also protect our children and young people. Today, the overwhelming majority of those convicted of child pornography offences are fined. For example, in 2018 only 20 out of 119 were sentenced to prison. That is not acceptable. Anyone who deals with child pornography commits a very serious crime. The Christian Democrats want to raise the minimum penalty to six months in prison and abolish fines on the scale of penalties. The Christian Democrats want to review the props needed to have someone convicted of serious child pornography crime. The fact that what is required today is hundreds of thousands of files to be convicted is not acceptable. It is the roughness of the material that should determine, not the amount of images. The police themselves testify to this problem. It takes 200 000 sexual abuse files for the crime to be considered serious. We also want to increase the maximum sentence for serious child pornography offences to ten years in prison, the same maximum sentence as for aggravated rape of children. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the approval of reservation 1 from us Christian Democrats. As many speakers have mentioned, the child pornography crime today falls under public order. Anyone who downloads an abuse film does not commit an abuse on a specific individual, but any contact with child pornography is illegal. If the crime was transferred from a crime of public order to the Code of Criminal Procedure and regarded as a sexual offence, the vulnerable children would also become plaintiffs with the possibility of counseling. Perhaps this would also lead to the police giving a different priority. In Norway, 20 times more people are convicted, and there child pornography is a sexual crime, not a crime of public order. If the name were changed, it would make it clear to the perpetrator, the child and society that this is a sexual crime. In 2016, several major international organisations such as the United Nations, ECPAT and Europol agreed on the name. We believe that the seriousness of the child pornography offence is not fully reflected in the current designation. The government should therefore set up an investigation with the task of considering whether the crime should be given a different classification that better expresses the seriousness of downloading, watching or spreading depictions of sexual abuse of children. Madam President, I would like The police themselves have alerted the problem that the child pornography crime is not a sexual offence. As such, it lacks victims. Together with the low penalty value, this means that the crime can become a low priority. Child pornography crime is a terrible crime that can affect the vulnerable child for the rest of its life. We therefore want to move child pornography offences to Chapter 6. The criminal code, that is, the chapter on sexual crimes. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that we believe that the public has a particular responsibility to protect the sexual integrity of children. Children who are victims of sexual crimes have to live with lifelong trauma. Such crimes against children can have devastating consequences for children's ability to feel trust in other people. It is important that children who are victims of these crimes dare to tell and then also report. However, it is processes that can take many years. With reference to this and technological developments, we believe it is necessary to review whether the limitation period for all sexual offences against children, including child pornography offences, should be removed completely.
i-df564da4f89ac162-121	Madam President, I would like It is a very urgent proposal that we are discussing in the Committee on Justice's report 22 this parliamentary session. These are essentially matters such as tightening up the minimum penalty for serious child pornography. It's not that hard to understand why it's important. We are talking about very disgusting and unpleasant abuses that are also going on over time in the digital age. These abuses are spreading over and over again. Such a proposal is easy to accept. We are also changing the legal framework as regards the elements of guilt from proving that it was known that the persons were under 18 years of age to that it was enough for the offender to have been careless. You should not be able to blame anything; you have a responsibility; if you intend to look at pornography, you should know that the people are adults. This is also easy to approve. It should well be added that we are not changing the burden of proof in the sense that it is prosecutors who should show negligence. But you shouldn't be able to get away the same way. In the case of other sexual offences against children, we have changed the burden of proof in such a way that the perpetrator has an obligation to find out the age of people. This too is easy for us Liberals to approve. Then there is the question of the limitation of rape offences and genital mutilation where children are victims. It's very important. Although the Law Council wants to warn a little, it is crucial that we later have a broader and longer discussion about limitation. The traditional idea of limitation is process economy. It has been very difficult to investigate these crimes historically as time goes on and it is ever longer since the acts have been committed. Perhaps there has also been an underlying thought that time would somehow heal all wounds. This must be set against the new technology that exists not least with DNA and tracking records that allow us to clear up crimes after quite a long time. There is no reasonable morality, we Liberals think, that people who have committed serious crimes should be able to walk free and feel secure after 10, 15, 20, 25 years and, so to speak, be free from guilt. It's a strange morality. That is why this is also easy to approve. We can add that there is a very great risk that people who are not convicted or have undergone prison treatment will relapse into crime because nothing is happening. Not all people who have committed this vile type of crime automatically cease to be potential perpetrators after a served sentence. But at least there's an increased chance. We have a view that the penal services and much of the Swedish penitentiary have a very strong content when it comes to trying to get people better out and get to grips with their criminals and, in this case, severely morbid behaviours. It is also easy for the Liberals to approve. I am in favour of reservation 3 in this report. Of course, I could have called for a number of them to be approved. We believe that the description of this type of crime, so-called child pornography, could be better done. But it requires an investigation. It is the same with regard to its placement in the penal code. In addition to this request for assent to reservation 3, I also support the Liberals' proposal in the report.
i-df564da4f89ac162-130	Madam President, I would like I would have liked this particular report, which deals with the child pornography crime, to have no connection whatsoever with the crisis we are in the midst of right now and that Corona and Covid-19 should leave Parliament for just a moment. Unfortunately, I'm just starting right there. For now the police report that the online paedophiles share more child pornography and that perpetrators increasingly contact children to exploit them sexually. Children who will feel hope for the future, only be children, play and stochy, are now exposed even more to this abominable crime. Child pornography crimes – only the word makes you hate. Of course, there are many crimes that arouse strong feelings, but I think this is one of the worst. The government's new legislative proposal means that the minimum penalty for serious child pornography offences is raised from six months in prison to one year in prison and that anyone depicting a child in a pornographic picture can be punished for child pornography offences even if he or she has not had any intention but has been careless of if the person portrayed is under 18 years of age. In addition, the limitation period for rape offences and genital mutilation committed against children is abolished. Our committee fully agrees with the government on these issues, and it is good that stricter legislation is in place. We are, I would say, touchingly agreed that the crime is despicable and that the punishment should be tightened. The differences are a little more in different ways of looking at the crime or perhaps more accurately on the victim versus the offender. One of the discussions concerns the placement of the crime. We Social Democrats believe that the penalty has to protect both the victim and children in general from the violation of child pornography. One argument for moving the crime from Chapter 16, violation of public order, to Chapter 6, sexual offences, in the Criminal Code is to strengthen the child's position, which of course is extremely wise. But the backsides we think are worse for both victims and to prevent crime. There is a risk that the scope for investigating underlying sex offences will be reduced if more and more resources have to be spent trying to identify and contact children in the child pornography investigation. A suspect could have several thousand different pictures of hundreds of children. That is why we consider that there is a risk that effective prosecution of those guilty of child pornography offences will be prevented and that serious sexual abuse cannot be detected and prevented. Because there is a connection between child pornography offences and child sexual abuse. Persons convicted of child pornography offences are also convicted in many cases of sexual offences against children. In a research report from 2017, it turned out that of those convicted of child pornography offences, nearly half, 48 per cent, were convicted of sexual offences against children. Madam President, I would like Another thought that I can't let go is that when it comes to sexual crimes in general, whether it's against children or women, we end up in the victim. Of course, it is incredibly important for the victim to receive redress and for the perpetrators to be convicted. But we should also discuss the perpetrators. What makes 1 117 suspects in the last year have had thousands of images of child pornography? How do we get to this before the child is taken advantage of? What are the underlying reasons, and do we dare to see and take it to heart? Could one reason be that porn as a phenomenon is one of the problems? It may be that those who watch a lot of porn don't think it's enough with the ordinary porn because it just doesn't turn it on, but need coarser porn, which among other things children porn is an example of. Madam President, I would like Again, it is of course very important that the perpetrators are convicted and that the victims are seen, restored and, above all, given the help they need to cope with their trauma. But we also need to start focusing on the perpetrators and, above all, on why. When we talk about gang crime, terrorism and juvenile robbery, we only focus on the perpetrator and the reasons why. But when we talk about child pornography, men's age against women and sexual crimes, we focus on the victims. To protect children and young people, women and girls from exposure, we need to do much more. Finally, Madam President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs' report No 22 and reject all reservations.
i-df564da4f89ac162-142	Madam President, I would like You don't dare crack your arm in these times, but I don't have any symptoms. The defence committee, with its two reports on civil and military defence – Resistance – The focus of the total defence and the design of the civil defence in 2021 – 2025 and Värnkraft – The focus of security policy and the design of the military defence in 2021 – 2025 – has laid the foundation for a strengthened Swedish defence capability. It is based on what we Moderates are working forward to get a really good total defense in Sweden. Today I intend to highlight two issues. One is about total defence and the other is about the defence industry. The security situation is serious. The defense committee notes that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Madam President, I would like However, I am rather concerned about the part of the total defence that is about civil defence. If we pass the whole – if we meet the demands of the war – we are also better equipped to face crises. Then civil defence needs to move in line with military defence. In the light of the coronapandemia that affects country after country, and which also affects Sweden greatly, it becomes clear that there is still a great deal to do with civil defence. We will come back to that later in April, but I would still like to take this opportunity to highlight my concerns here today. This is something that must be included in the budget work during the spring and in the work of the Defence Committee. Madam President, I would like The second issue I would like to raise here today concerns the defence industry. We Moderates want to see a new material supply strategy – the current one is almost ten years old and was written in a completely different security policy situation. Such a new material supply strategy needs, inter alia, to clarify the link between essential security interests, security of supply and war-important companies. As early as 2018, we received the report The Swedish Armed Forces' long-term material needs from Investigator Ingemar Wahlberg. It notes that several major rolling stock systems need to be put into effect and shortcomings need to be addressed in the period after 2025. This report shows that the Swedish Armed Forces will need to prioritise the removal of material after 2020 in order to remain in the unchanged economy due to, among other things, cost and turnover needs. It also shows that the acquisition of new materials is underfunded and that material maintenance costs increased by over 300 per cent from 2012 to 2017 and is expected to increase further until 2025. Finally, I would like to quote from the investigation. The report states that there are risks of additional costs in relation to current planning within the material envelopes, which in such cases will require re-priorities. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like We need an efficient supply of equipment when and where it is needed. At the same time, we need to ensure that we have an internationally competitive defence industry. The defence industry has been transformed over the last 20 years from being largely state-owned to being completely private today and also owned by foreign stakeholders. This has been positive, and it has helped the industry to survive and shift to a greater export focus. But now that Sweden is changing from an intervention defence to a focus on national defence, the rationality of eternal peace cannot continue to apply in relation to the defence industry, because the demand line must now also include wartime conditions. There will have to be clearer requirements on supply capacity than in the past. Returning to the order that existed between the state and the defence industry during the Cold War is not the case; ownership is quite different now. Moreover, technological development is accelerating, making it impossible to maintain competence in all areas where we need defence equipment. Madam President, I would like Sweden is currently in a position where we must gather together to regain the ability to defend our country. The obvious thing is, of course, to increase the resources for the Swedish Armed Forces, but it is all about so much more. An important component is our ability to supply equipment. This applies to the entire chain, from product development to maintenance and repairs. To meet our needs, we need to be prepared to think again and see how the defence industry in particular and the industry in general can strengthen our defence. The proportion of foreign components has increased from 25 per cent to 75 per cent. Some of the countries from which these components come are strategic partners to Sweden, and some are also in case of increased preparedness. On the other hand, there are subcontractors at the other end of the scale who operate in countries that are not at all interested in Sweden's prosperity. This needs to lead to reflection on what components we want to see in our defence equipment in the future. We therefore want Moderates to identify relevant international partners. In other words, which countries should we cooperate with, and with whom should we not cooperate? On the same theme, we also want to see that Sweden identifies from a broad perspective Swedish technical strengths that can form the basis for cooperation with other countries and guide projects within the European Defence Fund. In this connection, I would like to support the Moderates' reservation 9 in paragraph 7. Of course, we are also behind our two movements.
i-df564da4f89ac162-160	Madam President, I would like Today, the debate is about defence policy, particularly with a focus on the military component. As has just been said, the debate on 16 April – if I am not mistaken, Madam President – will be about civil defence and emergency preparedness. I am therefore leaving this largely now and waiting until the time of that debate. There will certainly be a lot of hot things there. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are a very strong supporter of the Swedish defence industry. This has been well known for many years, and it is evident not least from the priorities that we are doing. What is the basic attitude of the various parties when it comes to developing material plans and so on? If you have a priority – a bottom plate – that can easily be understood as the priority the Swedish Democrats or any other party do, it becomes much easier to understand. Let me give you some examples of this. Among other things, we write that research and development of armaments should be carried out continuously to ensure that excellence is maintained in Swedish industry. Then what does the government write? We have three points each. The first point I left, because there we have exactly the same letters. The government states that new procurement, when necessary, should primarily take place on the market of existing, fully developed and proven materials. This is where we split up. What else do we say in the Swedish Democrats? We say that new purchases of armaments should primarily be directed to the Swedish defence industry, second to suppliers where the Swedish defence industry participates in some part and thirdly should be procured on the market. There's a difference between this and this. How other parties write this is their own account, but this is very clear. I think it is very important that the parties are clear about what they want and how they prioritise. Here it is crystal clear: We prioritise the Swedish defence industry in the first place. We also prioritise continuous research and development in these areas. Sweden is a world leader in many areas, not least in sensor systems. This is well known among you who sit here. The government states that development should only be carried out when the needs cannot be met in the above-mentioned way – i.e. when you cannot buy what you want on the market. In my opinion, this is to declare the Swedish defence industry dead in the long term. Sometimes voices are raised saying that there are procurement rules and that we have to do this or that, but that is not quite right. When we have discussed these things, I have referred to France, which places its orders with its defence industry. Sometimes I get the answer that it depends on how you interpret it, but then let us interpret it as France does and place our orders with the Swedish defence industry. Secondly, we can place orders where we can participate in the development of, for example, various anti-aircraft systems on the corvettes when they will be mid-term modified. That is what the Swedish Democrats think, and that is our focus – clarity! Now we have started the work of the Defence Committee again, Madam President, and we have agreed that we should not open up and talk about what we are talking about in that paragraph. But at least I'd like to make a few points before the Defense Committee begins. Even though those parts are being addressed here now, we have said the t before, and then we feel a freedom in mentioning those parts. With our policy, a re-establishment of war units will take place in one of the places that have reported their interest: Östersund, Sollefteå, Härnösand, Falun and artillery shooting field in Villingsberg. We're going to go through with it. That's our focus. With Swedish democratic policy, it becomes a unit in Central Sweden in one of the designated places. That's what I said before, and I can tell you now, too, so it's done. We are visiting these areas now to look at environmental permits, infrastructure and other conditions to cope with this. Then I would also like to mention that in connection with this we want – we exercise about it for the fourth year in a row – to open an office for example in Luleå for recruitment. It's important. We will continue for the fourth year, and eventually, Madam President, perhaps we will agree in this House that a recruitment office is needed in Norrland. Let's see. We're not gonna give up. How do we view a strong total defense? That, of course, requires many elements, including an economy, Madam President. We see the defence force as a goal: this is the goal for you on the military side. To achieve this objective, financial resources are needed. If the Swedish Democrats had been left alone to decide in here, we would have told the Swedish Armed Forces that defence force is the goal to work towards. The budget for this until 2025 has been agreed. With price compensation, as it says in Värnkraft, it will certainly pass just over 90 billion. It's hard to say exactly. Then, Madam President, the Swedish Armed Forces will work towards 2030 when we want 2 percent of the bnp. We say, "Go ahead and lay out the plan for this!" Report to us perhaps every three months what the plan is like and how to achieve the milestones so that this money is available in 2030. That is the defence policy of the Swedish Democrats. Money that is over in September, October and November may, of course, be postponed until the following year instead of being returned – but one must not exceed the limit of the budget until 2025 and then until 2030. I know for myself that at the time I was an officer, everything was done to spend the money on the fall edge so as not to have to return the money. Everyone knows that. This must be stopped. In addition, we want the statute of law to ensure that the 2% of the bnp is constitutionally protected. As the journey progresses, changes will take place towards the goal of defence force. Research and development are progressing and there will be proposals to make some adjustments in this context. But it should be approved by the Riksdag eventually. Madam President, I would like Finally, we are in favour of our reservation 14 in this paragraph, and I would also like to remind you that we are clearly rejecting NATO and clearly rejecting an EU army. Of course, we are in favour of bilateral agreements, but when there is a crisis in Europe and other parts of the world, we also see in the civil field that we are closest to ourselves. Regardless of what agreements we write and whatever we think others will help us with, you close the borders and use the protective equipment or what it is for your own population, because the mission is primarily to protect your own population. There we see the effect of the whole thing. The conclusion is that we ourselves must build up our reserves and become strong ourselves, both militarily and in this respect. As I said, I will come back to that on 16 April, Madam President. Nat o is dead as the French President said. We also want to continue along the road that the government and the Minister for Defence have gone so far, and I think they have done well in some parts. Otherwise, I think the paralysed government is not so much to cheer for, but I think the Minister for Defence is an exception. In fact, I think he's doing a good job in some parts. I would have said that, as usual, although I will have many reasons for further criticism. A defence association with Finland is also something to strive for in the long term.
i-df564da4f89ac162-182	Madam President, I would like Nä r The Defence Committee in December 2017 handed over the report Resistance on total defence and the direction of civil defence proposed many concrete measures to collectively strengthen our preparedness and capabilities. All areas of our political work were concerned: communications, energy supply, logistics, inputs, food supply, heat, supply of goods, business and, not least, health care. During this extensive work, the Defence Committee met several central representatives of our agencies who spoke about what it looked like and what needed to do to develop our preparedness. We met representatives from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and from the pharmaceutical side. The vulnerabilities are and will be many for our society to deal with. What we put forward in the proposals in these reports that have been presented from the Defence Committee is about strengthening our overall defence capabilities, our preparedness both for managing crises in everyday life – major crises – and higher preparedness and war. The serious development of the coronapndemine and the progression of the disease in recent months show how quickly it is changing and how quickly it can become a very large crisis. We can now conclude that we bear costs because we have overlooked taking action on time when it comes to strengthening our emergency preparedness and our overall overall defence preparedness. The whole world is affected, and it is difficult to predict what the consequences will be in the long term and how long this will continue. Given that the security policy situation has not improved in these months, we also need to be prepared to continue to deal with more crises, including security policy crises, and also to have the resources to deal with several crises at the same time. We do not know when the battle for resources will strike and how the scenarios will develop in the next six months around our neighbourhood and the rest of the world. Often our society tends to focus on one major crisis at a time. Then an investigation is set up, and measures are taken afterwards. Our overall task as defence policies responsible for total defence, civil and military defence, is to work towards taking timely action to strengthen our overall preparedness so that we do not have to evaluate afterwards and then discover what was missing. The defence committee has put forward clear and sharp proposals. It is important that this should be widely prepared in all policy areas for future budgetary processes in order to also have an impact and practical implementation. The security situation certainly justifies this. It is not for nothing that the Defense Committee writes so clearly that an armed attack cannot be ruled out. Madam President, I would like It is high time that preparedness issues were given a higher priority when it comes to healthcare priorities and the country's governance. The civilian and the military are interdependent and interdependent. One cannot stand without the other. Field hospitals are a very good example of how the Swedish Armed Forces support the civilian work when the resources are insufficient. We are now, in parallel with dealing with the pandemic, in a negotiation process. The defence committee is called back, and dialogue is underway for future orientation decisions. For the next six, seven or eight weeks it will be sharp. It is about next five-year planning, the direction of our overall total defense, but also the years after. The Center Party has long pushed and pointed out some important priorities that are also included in Värnkraft, the report that the Defence Committee presented almost a year ago. Today's report focuses on some of these. One priority is strengthened defence capabilities throughout the country. It's central. We need a war organisation that is decentralised, present and based in all parts of the country. We see that it also has value in dealing with and supporting civil crises. Not least, we need staffing around to deal with our different conditions from north to south, from east to west, in the country, in the air and at sea. The Center Party supports the need for the establishment of regiments in several regiments. Some have already been confirmed with the Defence Committee's report. This applies to Arvidsjaur, Uppsala and Gothenburg. But we also need to go further in lower Norrland and Svealand to re-established in some places. In future defense decisions we see that two new regiments are needed and a clear focus is needed to increase the proportion of conscripts in our defence. That is why we support the number of conscripts to be 8 000 and that the Recruiting Authority urgently needs to be tasked with setting up a third recruitment office, in order to enable this extension. We also see that it is very reasonable to re-establish activities in some of the four locations included in the Defence Committee's report and mentioned earlier in the debate – Sollefteå, Härnösand, Östersund and Falun. The focus should be on expanding the work and mission of the army in our country. In view of the feedback provided by the Swedish Armed Forces in November, regarding economics and the Swedish Defence Committee's proposals, there are many challenges to handle in order to achieve a wise priority in order to develop what we have, increase the training rate and exercises, and not least in terms of the base plate for various materials within the Swedish Armed Forces. In addition, it is important to increase artillery capabilities. We want division artillery. Then what the Defense Committee proposes is central. You should be able to train artillery in more places. Kristinehamn and Villingsberg have been mentioned as appropriate areas, in order to be able to go back to previously operated places. Madam President, I would like We will probably have to increase the appropriations even after 2025 in order to have a reasonable planning horizon for the final lap of the negotiations. We have achieved a common ambition in terms of large increases in funding for the years 2021 – 2025. But we need to do more to enable as wise and early priorities as possible so that it becomes realisable and cost-effective to carry out procurements and other things in order for this to become a reality. The next few months will determine how we can achieve good predictability over the next ten years. It is also an important security policy signal to the outside world that Sweden prioritises total defence, civil and not least the future work of the military. I request the approval of reservation 4. Like Mr Richthoff, I will return more specifically to emergency preparedness and other work in civil defence in forthcoming debates.
i-df564da4f89ac162-200	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating defence policy. I would like to begin by calling for reservation 2 under paragraph 1 on the development of total defence. The Christian Democrats have six reservations. Of course, we are all behind them, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 2. I am going to talk mainly about military issues, but given the time we live in, it still feels urgent to say something about civil defence. As another speaker mentioned before, it is a good thing that the Swedish Armed Forces had the resources to help with a military hospital. It was first planned to be set up at Ärna in Uppsala but then ended up in the exhibition halls here in Stockholm. But what Dagens Nyheter reminded us of last week is worth remembering; in the early 90s we had 50 such field hospitals with 200 seats on each. So we had 10,000 medical places. It is a reminder that Sweden had the world's best civil defence in that particular area. But when the idea of eternal peace rolled in, we were very fast. In the debates, all parties in the Riksdag and the media were all aware that it was not necessary and if needed, it was far away that we were going to help. Now we see how important it is to restore the Armed Forces. We have a long way to go. We must also ensure that we impress on future generations: do not repeat the mistakes! Sweden can't just be rigged for beautiful weather, if you can put it that way. We must overcome crises, conflicts and, at worst, war. It is therefore important that the proposal of the Defence Committee be implemented, so that we have better resources for future crises. As far as the medical centres are concerned, what we have is good. But we need to think ahead so that in future we have more resources to help if we end up in crises and at worst war. Madam President, I would like What we said in the Defence Committee was that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. All eight parties agreed on that. We also said that we see a tougher security policy situation and that the Baltic Sea region is an indivisible operating area in the event of a conflict. In the event of a conflict, Sweden will be involved, whether we like it or not. For example, in the event of an attack on Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania, Sweden will be directly involved. Since we are part of the European Union, we have said that we have a duty to stand up. We also expect help if a disaster, act of terror or war strikes us. Similarly, we are expected to do so. That is why we will be involved. It is important that it does not stop at mere words but that what is said in the Defence Committee's report becomes a reality. It is the starting value of the Christian Democrats. This shall be implemented. Let me repeat a little what we actually said in the Defense Committee. The army must be strengthened. The entire Armed Forces need to be strengthened, but it is the army that is most under the ice. That's why we said three brigades of 5,000 men, conscripts, are needed in each. They should be in Skåne, Skövde and Boden. It should also be a light brigade here in Stockholm, and the one we have started up on Gotland will be strengthened. Throughout our history, Gotland has always been important, and it will continue to be, Madam President. That is why we must ensure that the proposal is implemented, but it will take time. Daniel Bäckström was previously aware that we must have a ten-year perspective. We were quick to tear down, but it will take time to build up. We must be persistent, dare to make decisions and add the money. As has been said before, the budget must increase to 2% of GDP. That is what Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are already on, and that is what Poland is on. Our neighbours are on their way up to that figure. The proposals that we agree on, which will apply until 2025, will cost 11⁄2%. Then the sum must increase by 2030 – if we are to implement the proposals. These comments concerned the army. Now I'm going to the Navy. The marine capacity is good, but we must also have an ability in Gothenburg. It is the most important port not only for Sweden but also for Finland. It is also a reserve port for Norway. If you want Sweden bad, that's where an attack will happen. That's where we all get our supplies. That is why we must be able to defend ourselves on the west coast and the east coast at the same time. Finally, we have the Air Force. In a large country like Sweden, the Air Force is of central importance. Therefore, what we agree on is important, namely that we stick to six divisions and that Uppsala becomes a flotilla. We must also use our side bases. As good as our JAS aircraft are, they must land and receive fuel. Therefore, there must be side bases that prevent us from becoming so vulnerable. Then there was another thing that was important in the work of the Defence Committee, namely investing in logistics. It's been neglected. In a crisis situation or in a war, the logistics of supplies must work. That is why it is so important that it is not neglected. All of this will be war-responsive. That is the very idea of our armed forces. It's supposed to be war-resisting. That is why we must ensure that the proposal is implemented. We agreed in the preparation that the proposal would be calculated in 2019's monetary value, and it would be listed. Everyone understands that 1 crown today is not worth as much in 2030. That is why we need to list the value if the proposal is to be implemented. I was on the issue of paying earlier. This is nothing we can send on count to the next generation. We have to bet the money, just like our world around us. This is fire insurance, and we have to pay the premium. It's not so much fun to pay home insurance, but we have to do it. If we're responsible, we'll do it. Similarly, we must have a defence force that receives the necessary money. It is therefore important to continue with the appropriations. Another speaker mentioned that Sweden should not join NATO. The Christian Democrats are of a completely different opinion and want to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. Defence cooperation with Finland is great, but we must be completely honest and say that it is not enough. It's not deterrent enough. Sweden is today an important partner of NATO, and we should upgrade it to full membership. Then we could really have defence cooperation. It is better to prepare with one's friends in good time than to have to improvise if the worst happens. It would therefore be better for Sweden and our neighbouring countries if our country were to become a member as well. Just as Norway, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Germany and Poland are already members, we should also take that step. In these words, Madam President, I once again call for the approval of reservation 2.
i-df564da4f89ac162-215	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that there have been quite a few speeches with many wise points of view which have been made in today's debate on defence policy and which many of us can support. It bodes well for the work that is jointly ahead of us to develop a specialization proposal for the Swedish defence in the autumn. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, let me start in a more comprehensive and broader perspective. Defence policy is part of foreign and security policy. Together you form a whole. When foreign policy focuses on maintaining peace, we have defence policies to consider how we prepare for the war. Together, ultimately, it is about upholding and defending values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights and freedoms. Basically, it is about our way of life and perhaps even the Swedish welfare model. Our policy – foreign and security policy and defence policy – must of course be shaped according to our circumstances, our perspectives and our values. But, of course, it also depends on the changes of the outside world and on the actions and sounds of other countries. Before Folk och Försvars konferens i januari I read an article in Helsingborgs Dagblad where Annika Nordgren Christensen aptly expressed the security policy situation: Uncertainty has become greater. No flashes of light can be seen. That is the reality we are living in today. With the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea, the European security regime has been put under pressure. We see the struggle for control over the fairways, particularly with regard to the Arctic and the melting ice. We see an anti-Western policy, authoritarian tendencies and an armament in our neighbourhood. Increasing conflicts in our neighbourhood can mean that Sweden is also being drawn into such a course of events. For this reason, the Swedish Defence Committee has written in its two reports Resistance and Värnkraft that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be excluded. On the basis of this, there are also completely new demands on Swedish foreign and security policy and, not least, on defence policy. We are now in a formative phase. The defense committee's reports have turned their perspectives around. When we have been discussing crisis preparedness for many years, that is, the ability to restore society's functions quickly in the event of a crisis, we are now discussing a total defence tank, which is about maintaining society's functions over time and at low levels. This means that we are now going through major investments in total defence. Military defence is in a phase of growth. We have agreed an additional EUR 25 billion by 2025, and we are discussing civil defence, which is a central part of the concept of total defence. This is in order, among other things, to support military defence, as it already enters earlier when the grey zone problems arise and in the event of crises. Not least in the current situation of our country and large parts of the world, a pandemic, we see the challenges and shortcomings of civil defence and therefore also in the Swedish total defence. If, over the years, we have equipped our military capabilities, civil defence has largely been dismantled. The idea of eternal peace, when democracy made achievements, when authoritarian states fell, motivated the steps that many countries chose to take – including Sweden. In a combination of neoliberal policies and economic doctrines on precisely in time and lean production, emergency stocks have largely been completely abolished. This is something that today's News has presented beautifully in a couple of articles recently. It is particularly clear in these times that we lack food supply, energy supply, pharmaceutical supply, fuel supply and so on. Madam President, I would like In today's debate, like many other representatives, I could draw up a list of measures that I and we Social Democrats find important. I could talk about the importance of 8 000 conscripts, about the supply of personnel to the defence, about the ability to increase civilian preparedness, about the supply of equipment and about the need for artillery, further brigades and so on. I choose not to do so because I do not want to anticipate the political talks that are now taking place. With the Defence Committee's reports, the Armed Forces and Resistance, with the now reactivated Defence Committee, with the ongoing political negotiations that we are in with the agreement of an additional 25 billion to the military defence, there are good conditions to put a defence policy proposal on Parliament's table this autumn with broad political support. Madam President, I would like With this, there is also good reason to approve the proposal in the Committee on Defence's report 6. Let me conclude, Madam President, by saying that success is based not only on agreements but also on the ability to keep them over time. The disarmed military and civilian preparedness and capability will take time to rebuild. It will require patience. It will require focus on the task. But it is my hope that with a common and stable basis based on the Defence Committee's reports it is quite possible. Now it's up to us.
i-df564da4f89ac162-226	Madam President, I would like I was actually going to abstain from today's debate. However, I would like to mention a few words about our reservation 14, which I also support. The reservation is simply about us seeing a need for the government to decide to shut out companies directly linked to non-democrats' intelligence services that want to invest in critical infrastructure. This may, for example, be the case for investments in 5G networks. What do I know? That could be the case. It is quite important that we do this. Everyone in here understands the implications of foreign, undemocratic intelligence being linked to companies investing directly in 5G networks in Sweden. It is not difficult to understand that problem. With regard to critical infrastructure, we also believe that the government should be able to review and stop direct investment in and the purchase of infrastructure of the type we have seen in recent years, for example in ports, rail networks and the like. We believe in reservation 14 that the government should have the opportunity to review this. The defence shall have the opportunity to question, and the government shall be able to make decisions that prevent direct investment and acquisitions from the companies and interests that exist in ports and other areas. We think that goes without saying. Madam President, I would like I was pleased when I read the other day an article from the Liberals that goes completely in this direction. I agree with almost every word in that debate article, and the Liberals should in fact be able to agree with every word of our reservation. I hope that this afternoon's vote will do so and support reservation 14, which is in fact fully in line with the debate article. There we have three points, and all three points are represented in our reservation. Of course, one can try to wriggle in order not to have to support the reservation. But that would be a pity, I think, because we have an important job to do together to deal with these problems. I can say this, straight up and down: had the Liberals had a reservation based on that debate article, we Swedish democrats would have had no problem at all to support that reservation. That's it.
i-df564da4f89ac162-231	Madam President, I would like This is, of course, an extremely urgent debate. For liberals, the ultimate protection that the Armed Forces and our defence capabilities represent is always the most important task of all the state's tasks. There is really nothing higher priority, and in times when we already have to make tough political priorities and move towards even tighter financial frameworks and greater need for priorities, the Armed Forces and our overall defence capabilities – including civil defence of course – will continue to be the top priority for us liberals. Without defence forces, without defence capabilities and without civil defence, we cannot protect our civil liberties, and that is ultimately the main task of the state. Madam President, I would like It has been said very well in this debate, and I do not want to repeat too much. However, I would like to draw attention to a discussion that has taken place where some people seem to believe that in times of crisis and seriousness and in times when we cannot rule out an armed attack, as it has been formulated here before, we would need less cooperation. Madam President, I would like I am of the opposite opinion. Sweden needs more cooperation in times of concern in the world, in our surrounding world and in the world at large. I think that the crisis that Sweden is facing now with the Corona virus shows that. It shows that it would have been unreasonable for each individual country itself to develop vaccines and research without having contact with scientists in other parts of the world. It shows that we need to work together across borders. This shows that we in Sweden need to take advantage of inventions that have been made. We in Sweden need to save lives with ECMO machines invented or produced in other countries. It shows that our cooperation with an international body such as the WHO is more important than ever. It also shows that if cooperation is to last in times of crisis, it is necessary that before the crisis you have reached an agreement, have trained and practiced together and have developed and deepened cooperation so that once it blows up you have very great ability to stick to those collaborations. For this reason, I and the Liberals still want us to join NATO. We can't make it without the help of others. It is impossible for us in a small country like Sweden to develop everything ourselves a, to produce everything ourselves a, a t t t defend ourselves entirely in a troubled world if, for example, we face an armed attack. It's impossible. It's a naive dream. That's never gonna happen. We need to be part of the world, too, when it comes to our defences. In this debate, however, I do not want to call for NATO in particular, but rather for the approval of our Amendment No 11, which deals with enhanced cooperation on defence in the European Union. We want Sweden to participate in and deepen the cooperation in Pesco but also to take the initiative for new collaborations because our troubled time admonishes us to deepen our collaborations with others, train with others, stop contacts with others and make sure that the systems are playing with each other so that when the crisis comes we will be prepared to face it together. If we want to face the threat of strategic takeovers that we are facing, in a few weeks' time we can vote on our reservation in the FU7 report.
i-df564da4f89ac162-239	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to go up, but when NATO was raised, I do not want to leave it completely undisputed. The fact that the Liberals were a fighter in the implementation team that destroyed civil defence is a fact. You were part of the implementation team that completely destroyed the civilian and also military defence – just so that the legacy is not forgotten in the debate. You want to join NATO and sit there with your friend in Turkey, Erdo中an. Do not forget to mention it also when you talk about NATO countries. I'm sure Mr Erdo中an will welcome your Liberals. But we don't. We do not welcome cooperation with Turkey. Let me make this difference clear, but fight on you. As far as agreements are concerned, and so on, in this crisis, we see that there is a stoppage in the supply of protective equipment and other goods from the European Union. Why? Well, everyone wants to protect their own population, and they need these things themselves. That is not to say that we should not have cooperation and agreements. But a little more realism of the Liberals would have been dressative. We say no to an EU army. Surely you cannot reasonably want both to have NATO membership and to build a parallel organisation, an EU army. Here you have to think about what you're doing. More cooperation? Sure. Coordination? Good. But do not forget that we need to build up a good degree of self-sufficiency in terms of food, fuel and so on. That's the foundation.
i-df564da4f89ac162-246	Madam President, I would like It gets a little silly when there are such inappropriate attacks from the Swedish Democrats, but I feel that I still have to deal with them. The Liberals have probably always been the party in the Swedish parliament that has pushed the hardest for increased defence grants. That is also why it has been the easiest for the Liberals, of all parties, to demand first and most clearly that Sweden join NATO. In fact, we have already requested the level of defence appropriations required to be a member of NATO. Madam President, I would like It is of course sad that Turkey is a dictatorship, and I condemn the abuses that Turkey is committing against its people and those of others. However, the fact that membership of NATO would mean that anything Turkey wants must be put in place is a gross misconception, if not even fake news. In fact, membership of NATO means that if you are subjected to an attack by someone else, you get support and protection. Sweden is currently participating in NATO-led operations, and we have also done so historically. However, we have done so on a voluntary basis, and so will membership. The difference is that if we are exposed to something, NATO will come to the rescue. Madam President, I would like As far as international cooperation is concerned, I think it is a good thing if we have established contacts with other countries and can help with training, equipment and other resources. It is just like now that doctors with training in other countries, ECMO machines manufactured in other countries and hospital food produced in other countries. Does Mr Richthoff say no to these things?
i-df564da4f89ac162-251	Madam President, I would like If anyone is inappropriate in the debate, it is the Liberals and Mr Forssell. I don't think he knows his own story. As early as 2014, the Swedish Democrats wanted to be the only party to invest 2 percent. Then the Liberals, at their best, collapsed the civilian and military defenses. Read on, is my call to Member Joar Forssell. In the debate on 18 January 2017, I said that we were the only party to invest 4 billion in civil defence. Liberals didn't bet a penny. Listen to that debate so that at least you have a story that you can rest on. NATO must be there, says the honourable Member. Yes, but if Turkey is attacked, Sweden as a member must also help Turkey. The liberals can surely not believe that Sweden will get help in an attack but be able to choose who we in turn want to help. That's not how the system works. If Sweden wants help when we are attacked, we must also be prepared to help Turkey with Swedish soldiers, for example, if Turkey is attacked. We in the Swedish Democrats are working for it. Nor do we believe that membership of NATO is necessary if we build a strong Swedish defence and join a defence alliance with Finland. Then we build a great and strong defense ability that becomes a hard nut to crack. As far as the collaborations listed are concerned, we have no problem cooperating.
i-df564da4f89ac162-257	Madam President, I would like The rest of us in this House may have some leniency with the Swedish Democrats because they have never cooperated properly with other parties within the framework of parliamentarism. If you as a party have not participated in government and budget cooperation, it is difficult to understand how such cooperation works. Let me therefore take this opportunity to tell you that the Liberals have always been a driving force in all collaborations for the Swedish Armed Forces to be strengthened and given greater funding. We were the first to say 2% because we want to join NATO. We have been the driving force for the entire broad defence in Sweden to have increased resources. But when you work with others, you sometimes need to compromise. It is easy, like the Swedish Democrats, to sit up in the gallery and shout loudly when you do not cooperate with others and do not participate in this type of budgetary cooperation. But what have the Swedish Democrats achieved? Nothing. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats' opening speech was very much about us doing everything ourselves here in Sweden and not cooperating with others. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats want healthcare to use ECMO machines from other countries, for doctors trained in other countries to help in healthcare and for hospital food to be produced in other countries. Madam President, I would like This is hypocrisy from the Swedish Democrats. Cooperation is needed in every policy area. Liberals also want to see enhanced cooperation with Finland, but that is not enough when the crisis is at hand.
i-df564da4f89ac162-262	Madam President, I would like It's interesting to listen to Joar Forssell. With his falsification of history and the description of a reality that does not exist, he is probably one of the greatest hypocrites in this House today. In fact, the Liberals did not want to cooperate. You talk far and wide about cooperation, but you have shut us out and did not want to cooperate. Joar Forssell babbles on about cooperation but in fact does not want to cooperate. The liberals do not have much support from the Swedish population. Many more are voting for the Swedish Democrats. It is a reality to relate to. Why is that, Mr Forssell? I do not think the honourable Member understands that there is a connection. People vote for a party because they think the party's policy is good, and therefore our support is many times greater than yours. Liberals have very little support, and that should call for some kind of reflection. Listen to the debate of 18 January 2017! In your motion, you also said that you wanted to cut back on price compensation. Read the story! We have no objection to cooperation. Now we work together within the framework of the Defense Committee. That's where the parties work together. We're breaking views. So the reality that Joar gives here is not true. Then there is this worship of NATO and that we should cooperate with Finland. There we have completely different opinions, and that is the case.
i-df564da4f89ac162-268	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating citizenship. Let me begin by saying that Swedish citizenship is not an undemanding community. Swedish citizenship needs to be upgraded. Swedish citizenship is an obligation between the state and its citizens and between the individual citizen and the state, i.e. it includes a form of community that involves some obligations. We therefore want moderates to increase the requirement of residence for citizenship from five years to seven years. We also want to link requirements for self-sufficiency, requirements for knowledge of the Swedish language and requirements for approved results in basic social studies. This should be the basis for obtaining Swedish citizenship. Madam President, I would like I will be brief in this debate. I usually talk a lot longer, but these are special times right now. There is also a reservation in the report about protecting minors who are at risk of being married. Today, parents who plan to marry their young daughters – there are also cases where they marry children away, but they are mostly girls – free their children from Swedish citizenship and thus completely remove the Swedish state's ability to defend the rights of minors and bring them back to Sweden. We want cases where a parent wants to free his or her child from Swedish citizenship to be examined in a Swedish court.
i-df564da4f89ac162-273	Madam President, I would like In order for voting not to be so long, I choose to vote in favour of reservation 4 only, but we naturally support all our reservations. The current pandemic is a revolutionary time for all of us, all over the world. It is a reminder of how fragile our society is and how little it takes for a functioning everyday life to turn into a crisis – a crisis that puts things at its head even in Sweden and shows how important it is that we all work together as a people. And even if people are afraid, we can be proud of the cohesion we have shown so far. Unfortunately, however, we have also seen signs of how wrong it can be when misplaced political goodwill turns out to be problematic in practice. Madam President, I would like In an article in Expressen last week, the Swedish Somali imam Hussein Farah from Rinkeby sounded the alarm: Several Swedish Somalis had died from Corona. As many as 40 per cent of Stockholmers who died at that time were Swedish Somalis. The explanation was that they had not been able to take on board information from the authorities on how to protect themselves and how to prevent the spread of infection. They have not followed in Swedish media, and they have not had contact with Swedish authorities. As a result, they themselves have been infected and relatives and friends infected. In Expressen on Monday the news was followed up with the angle that the City of Stockholm has been too slow to inform in different languages in vulnerable areas. The number of Swedish Somalis who died as a result of Corona is now more than double that of last week. Several are still seriously ill. Madam President, I would like In pandemic times, of course, we must be pragmatic and reach everyone we can, in any way we can. It's about people's immediate security. It is important for society as a whole that the spread of infection is prevented in every way. In the long run, however, it is quite unreasonable for authorities to have an obligation to translate information into dozens of different languages or to provide interpreters at the expense of taxpayers. Many Swedish citizens are currently outside the information flow because it is in Swedish. Our naive view of migration and integration has encouraged people to live in parallel societies. There are tens of thousands of people living in Sweden without really being a part of Swedish society. Deaths due to language shortages are a tragedy. I think we all agree on that. But even if we are still in the midst of a paralysing crisis, we politicians must try to look ahead: What can we do to make Swedish society better prepared the next time something similar happens? This points out how extremely important it is for integration that we dare to make demands. If we really want people from different parts of the world to become part of Swedish society, we have to explain right from the start what is important. The road to the Community must not only be there, but must be illuminated and visible to all. In the good folk house, it must be an essential element that everyone who lives here – everyone who is allowed to live here – should become and should be part of our community, our society. That is why we must make demands. We do that out of concern, not out of meanness. It is not about building barriers, it is about a willingness to include more in the Community. Madam President, I would like This debate is about citizenship, and I will try to tie the bag together. There must be incentives for foreigners who come to Sweden to learn the language. Learning how society works and how authorities work must become a natural part of integration. It is our responsibility as politicians to combat parallel societies in the best way possible. If we want everyone to have a real chance to avoid exclusion, we do it best by making basic and clear demands: If you are going to settle in Sweden, we take for granted that you want to become a part of Sweden. And in our community you speak Swedish and get an understanding of how Swedish society is unique and different from others. This is not an obstacle, but a framework that makes it easier to understand what is needed. For this reason, we propose simple basic requirements for those who are to become Swedish citizens. Our view is that if we had had these demands in the past, far more people would have been an integral part of Swedish society today.
i-df564da4f89ac162-286	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that it is high time to upgrade citizenship and start making clear demands for obtaining it. Citizenship is a goal, not a means. I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 7. When someone applies for a Swedish citizenship, it should be seen as an expression that Sweden is the country that the applicant sees as his new and permanent home country. That very affinity is something that is also expressed in the portal clause that exists for citizenship. But Swedish citizenship is not only symbolic but also real. With citizenship, you get the right to vote in the Parliamentary elections, you can apply for services in the police, military and court, the unconditional right to reside in this country but also that you can get consular help if problems arise abroad. We Christian Democrats have a reservation in which we want to investigate and enhance the importance of citizenship. We want to review the requirements for Swedish citizenship. Madam President, I would like Citizenship gives far-reaching rights. That is why we believe that it is reasonable that there should also be clear requirements for citizenship. In a number of other EU countries, citizenship can only be envisaged if the applicant can support himself without financial support from society. Half of the EU's 28 Member States have some form of citizenship test. It may be that the applicant should have a certain level of language knowledge as well as a certain knowledge of the country's society, culture and history. Some countries also demand some form of commitment that expresses an ambition for integration and loyalty to the country and the fundamental values of society. We Christian Democrats have highlighted demands for language skills. We want it to be introduced already when applying for a permanent residence permit. It is well founded that knowledge of the Swedish language is of great importance for integration – we all agree that integration does not work as we wish. A certain amount of knowledge in Swedish makes it easier to assimilate an education, get a job and get into the community. The Christian Democrats want to increase the incentive to learn the Swedish language. We therefore propose that language requirements already exist for permanent residence permits. Then there should be another requirement for citizenship. In addition to the language, we want to require that you have received instruction in social orientation and passed an approved test. It is our firm conviction that, with language skills and a good knowledge of Swedish society and of the values and values of general human beings that have characterized and still characterise our Swedish society, we can ensure that cultural divides are reduced. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a welcoming country and an inclusive country. This is precisely why it must be clear that those who come to Sweden also have their own responsibility to learn the language, respect the law and gain an understanding of how Swedish society works if they are to become part of society and take part of the benefits that Sweden has to offer. Those who learn Swedish and who understand our society and our values are easier to live with – not next to – the majority population.
i-Dat7kRrmWNPeKaD2waT3NT	Madam President, I would like I and we Social Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal in SfU16, Citizenship, and rejecting all reservations. The reservations include language and social studies tests, self-sufficiency as a condition for Swedish citizenship and extension of the period of residence, as you have heard here in the debate. Citizenship has both symbolic value and real value in a time of increased cross-border mobility. Since 1 April 2015, according to the so-called portal clause of the Citizenship Act, Swedish citizenship is a legal relationship between the citizen and the state that entails rights as well as obligations for both parties. Citizenship unites all citizens and stands for belonging to Sweden. Citizenship represents formal membership of Swedish society and is a basis for democracy, for popular government. Furthermore, it is now mandatory for municipalities once a year to organise ceremonies for new Swedish citizens in order to celebrate their new citizenship. The welcome is voluntary for the individual and may be designed according to the different conditions and conditions of the municipalities. The question of changing the residence requirement has been raised in a number of motions. The committee considers that the residence requirements applicable to different categories of persons to be granted Swedish citizenship are well balanced and should not be changed at present. This issue is also discussed in the parliamentary committee dealing with the future Swedish migration policy. It is about the relationship between permanent residence permits and citizenship and what should apply to them. Madam President, I would like With regard to requirements for knowledge of Swedish and Swedish society and the liberation of citizenship, the committee notes that in October 2019 the government commissioned a special investigator to produce proposals to pass tests in Swedish and in fundamental social sciences should be required for Swedish citizenship. The aim is to strengthen the status of citizenship and to promote an inclusive society in which the individual is strengthened and increases his or her chances of becoming an active citizen of society. It is reasonable to make demands for certain knowledge of Swedish and Swedish society in order to obtain Swedish citizenship. However, the mission also includes examining the extent to which exceptions are required for certain groups. The investigator will also make proposals on how to strengthen children's rights in cases of exemption from Swedish citizenship and how to extend the possibility of rejecting an application for exemption from Swedish citizenship. Madam President, I would like With regard to children's rights in matters of exemption from citizenship, I would like to stress the importance of presenting proposals that strengthen the child's rights as soon as possible. No child should be able to be taken abroad to be married against his will. It is also important here to highlight that last week the government submitted a bill to the Riksdag with proposals to increase protection against honour-related crime. A new crime, child marriage crime, is introduced. It can lead to prison for up to four years. It is a new penalty for crimes with honorary motives and a new tool – an exit ban. I look forward to us passing in Parliament the laws proposed by the government in this case.
i-df564da4f89ac162-302	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in this report on citizenship, which we are now debating. Then I have to say, Madam President, that I am very pleased that, at the end of October, we had an inquiry into the introduction of a language and social studies test for Swedish citizenship. This is something that the Liberals have been fighting for a long time. We presented a proposal for a language test for citizenship already in the Parliamentary elections 2002. It's taken 18 years. Finally, the first steps are now being taken to implement this. Why is it so important? Well, if you do not have a basic understanding of the language of the country where you want to be a citizen, you risk being left out. It makes it harder to get a job. It makes it more difficult to know your rights, to understand the public debate, to access information and so on. It is incredibly central for a person who wants to become a citizen of Sweden to also understand the Swedish language, speak it and make themselves understood. But it is also about understanding: What are the rules that apply in Sweden? How does this society, basically, work? Therefore, a language test needs to be combined with a test in social studies. This is not to point people out in any way or create some kind of crack in Sweden, but just the opposite: This is incredibly important for the community in our country, for people to be included, for you to be an active citizen of society and for you to be aware of what rights you have. Some exceptions may be needed for people who are perhaps very old or who have a disability that makes it difficult to pass such a test, for example. Of course it is. But basically it is still so that for those of you who want to take the step of becoming a citizen of Sweden, that citizenship must also be loaded with a content and a value that helps you in your integration into Sweden. On the Liberal side, we are therefore very much in favour of this, and I see in the report that there is now a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. It didn't always. The Liberals have tabled these proposals year after year and have been voted down. But now there is this support, and it is also thanks to the other parties that have concluded the January agreement that we are now having this investigation. Madam President, I would like There is another issue in the report that is very important and that the investigation should also look at. It is about no child having to risk being taken abroad and being married away. Today, the Swedish law does not give children adequate protection against this. There is a serious gap in the legislation on citizenship in Sweden, and that is that the law in practice gives parents the right to apply on behalf of their children for their Swedish citizenship to be terminated. This can, for example, be about a person in Sweden who lives in an honorary culture or context. The parents take the child abroad, marry the child away and can then terminate the child's citizenship. If the person is over 12 years old, which we hope, the person will sign the form. But if the person is not domiciled in Sweden, how will our authorities be able to ensure that the child has had his or her opinion? How can we ensure that the child is not subjected to threats and coercion from his family or from his parents? It's impossible to do that today. That is why the Liberals in our committee motion believe that there must be a judicial review of the existence of these reasons if a child is to be deprived of his or her citizenship. If there is no such thing, the child is without protection from his or her parents, and we cannot have such a situation in Sweden. This is, as I said, something that the investigation should also look at. Madam President, I would like I think that we in Sweden should also look a little at some other countries where there are good systems for upgrading citizenship. We have come a bit along the road in Sweden with citizenship ceremonies and other things, and that is very important. Basically, citizenship is a legal contract whereby the individual's relationship with the state is regulated in matters such as military service, voting and such. However, that is not enough. Citizenship is not just something on paper. Being an active citizen of society also requires understanding of one's society and being an active citizen of society. That is precisely what we want to promote.
i-df564da4f89ac162-313	Madam President, I would like We are debating in this special and turbulent time the report of the Social Security Committee 2019/ 20:SfU16 on citizenship. Being a citizen of a country means both rights and obligations. It is a special relationship that means the right to vote in all elections, for example, when you are 18 years of age and also to stand as a candidate. We always have the right to enter Sweden, and we have the absolute right to live and work here. We can represent Sweden. We also have obligations to assist society in times of crisis. Citizenship is a fine thing. Sweden, like other nations, would be nothing without its citizens. The most common way to become a citizen of Sweden is to be born in Sweden and have one or two parents with Swedish citizenship. It is also possible, of course, to acquire citizenship as a child or as an adult. Today, over 1 million people who have been born with another citizenship have a Swedish one. That Sweden has grown in this way is a strength for our country. Madam President, I would like There have been reforms in the past on citizenship. A few years ago, the rule was introduced that Swedish municipalities should organise ceremonies for new citizens. Many had already taken such an initiative on their own. At the moment, an investigation is in place and is reviewing the regulations on citizenship and its status. In this context, it is particularly relevant for me and the Green Party to highlight what concerns strengthening children's rights and removing the possibility of giving up Swedish citizenship, for example when children are at risk of being married away in another country and are in extreme danger. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-df564da4f89ac162-319	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Moderates, we would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5.
i-df564da4f89ac162-320	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate whether new directives are needed for the report on labour immigration, the investigation that the government decided on 6 February. I shall begin by calling for the reservations contained in the SfU25 report, because I believe that the investigator should be allowed to continue his important work without delay. An interim report is scheduled for 1 February 2021 and the full report for 1 November 2021. The investigator will consider, among other things, how to design a new basis for residence permits in order to make it easier for highly qualified people to work in Sweden, as well as measures to counteract so-called competence expulsions and the exploitation of labour immigrants. Labour immigration is important for Sweden, which is a country in need of international competence. It is also important to be able to offer good employment conditions and that the system is not abused by certain employers. The mission is based on an agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, the investigator will make proposals on how a new basis for residence permits should be designed for highly qualified people who intend to look for work and for people who want to start a business in Sweden, to consider whether the rules on residence permits for the pursuit of business activities are appropriate, to carry out a broad analysis of the legal situation and its consequences in relation to the so-called skills deportation of labour immigrants, including as regards deviations in the employment conditions of a former employer and the application of the concept of industry practice, and to consider whether further measures should be taken. The investigator must also consider whether there is a need for rules to protect a worker who cannot be granted an extension of a residence permit for work. The investigator shall consider whether to introduce a supply requirement for the family members of labour immigrants, identify how and to what extent the labour immigration framework is used for organised abuse, identify the extent to which part-time labour migrants, in particular in labour-intensive sectors, are exposed to exploitation, assess whether intentional procedures enabling entry into Sweden can be carried out on the basis of residence permits issued on incorrect data and whether this should be punished. The investigator shall also identify the existence of trade in residence permits for work. These are just some of the issues that the investigation is going to review. I share the committee's view that labour migration is important for Sweden, which is a country in need of international competence, as I said at the beginning of my speech. It is therefore important to resolve the issue of, for example, skills deportation and to counter the abuse of the labour immigration system. We Social Democrats think that the investigative directives cover this in a good way, so that a solid and comprehensive investigation can be carried out. Madam President, I would like Nor does it seem that there is so much agreement between the four parties that have worked together to make an announcement to the government about new directives, because they have written each their particular opinion where one can read: However, we would have liked to have seen... We would have preferred... We would have liked to have seen... Furthermore, we believe that... So it does not seem that the four parties fully agree on what these new directives should look like. In order to get a good investigation that is not delayed, I maintain that it would be good if the investigator could continue his important work.
i-df564da4f89ac162-332	Madam President, I would like The ongoing corona epidemic affects many large parts of society, not just this one about labour migration. In this context, I would like to highlight the green industries, which are totally dependent on immigrant workers. It shows that immigrants are very important, not least in terms of green industries and the forest industry. This means that many of the country's green companies are having a difficult time right now. I have made this point to the Minister for Rural Development and that the government must do something that is important at the moment. Madam President, I would like The parties behind the January agreement agree that the problem of competence expulsions must be resolved. It is stated in the investigation directives that a special visa for highly qualified people who want to apply for a job or start a business should be introduced. It also states that the current rules on labour migration must be respected. At the same time, there have been disturbing reports that there is, of course, fraud and exploitation of the system and that organised crime is linked to labour immigration. Cheating, the exploitation of systems and organised crime do not belong in our society, and it should in no way be linked to labour immigration. The Center Party therefore considers it important that we overcome this problem. The system should not be used by people, and people should not get caught. This is, of course, important to resolve. What we are going to do at the same time, and which we take seriously, is to protect today's system. The proposals on full-time requirements and a certain wage level will hit serious entrepreneurs hard. We need to find ways forward to find solutions that do not harm companies that are completely dependent on labour migration. Consider that just last year, labour migration brought in SEK 34 billion in increased production revenue and SEK 12 billion in increased tax revenues that can go to school, health care and long-term care throughout our country. And in these days when we really need revenue for not least these areas, it is important that we help to ensure that we also have continued labour migration. Many Swedish companies can only find the right skills among immigrant workers. That is why we must implement proposals that stop fraud and ensure that organised crime really disappears. But we also need to consider how we do it and how we do it properly, because it is important that the system works properly. Within the framework of the January agreement, we have jointly landed in an investigation directive which combines and protects in a balanced way the development of the system, while, of course, we must tackle fraud and crime. Because of the concern that the new directive that we are going to adopt today extends the time for implementing the necessary measures, we reject the committee's initiative, and I call for the reservation in the report to be accepted under paragraph 1. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I and we in the Center Party must note that the proposal on which we have a position today does not differ significantly from that contained in the existing investigation directive. Instead, it seems that it is just a matter of criticising rather than actually achieving the right results. Let me also remind you that today's system of labour immigration is, in fact, a bourgeois alliance reform that is absolutely necessary for the Swedish economy, for our Swedish companies, which are actually those who create income for our country and for our common welfare, not least now that we are facing a very difficult economic crisis, which I began by saying.
i-df564da4f89ac162-341	Madam President, I would like The Social Insurance Committee has, through the possibility in the Parliamentary Order, taken a committee initiative to announce its opinion on the directives for the recent study on labour immigration. The majority who have voted to do so were the Moderates, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. One should not exaggerate the meaning of what this constellation has agreed upon. There is a broad consensus in the Riksdag that the so-called competence demonstrations are and have been a problem, although it has become a minor problem in recent years. Nor do I think that we disagree in principle on the fact that employers who deceive and exploit workers should be punished. Another part of the initiative is that the Finnish Immigration Service will receive the employment contract upon application. In this context, it is worth pointing out that this in itself does not prevent the conclusion of a new agreement at any stage. This issue was investigated last parliamentary term, but it proved impossible to implement such a regulation. The investigation that has been set up includes considering reporting changes that are of greater importance in the terms and conditions of employment and their consequences for the work permit. Madam President, I would like More proposals have been made in the Social Security Committee regarding this investigation. KD and SD agree that there should be a salary floor of $35,000 a month. It is a proposal that would make it impossible for many industries to recruit someone from outside. I am pleased that the Moderates and the Western Party did not meet with the Christian Democrats in those parts, because it had had major negative consequences for the Swedish economy and the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like I think there is a broad consensus that people should not be exploited and harmed in workplaces in Sweden. I think we're all upset when unscrupulous traders take advantage of guest workers. We need to take a strong stance on the shadow society, not least through controls and joint work by the authorities. In essence, however, we will protect Sweden as a country where people have the opportunity to come to work and contribute to society and create a better future for themselves. It is something that has made Sweden strong, and it will be able to build Sweden strong even in the future when the global corona crisis that we are in the middle of is over. I would like to express my agreement with the reservation.
i-df564da4f89ac162-348	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Now we stand here debating labour immigration. We are right now in the midst of an economic crisis that is hitting the Swedish labour market and our entrepreneurs extremely hard, that is to say that it is a matter of having two balls in the air. Labour immigration will also serve Sweden greatly on the day that Sweden will rise from the economic crisis we face. But we have problems in the Swedish labour market with labour migration that we want to address from the Moderates. It is about reducing errors and abuse of workers. We have heard some colleagues from other parties here in the speaker's chair put up a finger of warning because we mess with it in the investigation. Let me remind those parties that this House has already established, mapped out, investigated and concluded that we have a problem with the expulsion of competence. Why should we investigate something we have already investigated, something we already know about? Is it because none of us in here are touched by it? It is the Swedish companies and the good workers who come to Sweden and want to contribute to the Swedish economy and build a new life here in Sweden that suffers. That is why we have moved on with the committee initiative in which we want to amend the directives, that is to say, by 1 May the government will come up with new additional directives for the investigator to come up with proposals on how to stop competence expulsions, not about us to map and see at a later stage if there is a need. There's a need. There are a number of cases where skilled workers, i.e. labour immigrants who have gone to Sweden, because the slightest error can risk tearing up their whole life. And those who lose the most, to be perfectly honest, are Sweden – we. Let me take the example of Muhammad Irfan, who was a doctoral student at Karolinska Institutet. Thankfully, he got right in the Migration Court of Appeal. However, the Migration Board and the Migration Court made a different assessment in the previous instances. He was researching medical science at the Department of Molecular Medicine. It is a person that Sweden has a great need of. This person could go anywhere, anywhere else in the world, and build his life there. That's why we're going to stop the skills demonstrations. An initiative is about increasing sanctions against employers if the employee has not made mistakes and the employer uses the employee, i.e. that the employees should be able to claim damages. Right now, they're in part 22. If workers try to get their employers right, they risk being expelled, that is to say, the work permit will be withdrawn. Another initiative in this own-initiative report that we are taking forward is that you should have a valid employment contract when applying for a work permit. It should not be an employment offer, it should be the employment contract that you sign, because that is when it becomes legally binding. Then you can also demand responsibility from employers who commit abuse and make conscious mistakes and where the employee is the one who pays the price. Madam President, I would like It is also about the Migration Agency getting direct access to the Swedish Tax Agency's database. There are many here from other parties who will point their finger at us Moderates because we have reached an agreement with the Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. We have received a majority for this report in committee. This is about getting your thumb out and getting things done. We have already investigated and mapped, and we know that we have problems with these things. Let's get this over with. Just because the January parties themselves do not get along, the Swedish Parliament cannot sit here on its hands and just wait for them, but now we are moving forward. That is why, on behalf of the Moderates, we support the committee's proposal.
i-df564da4f89ac162-357	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most advanced economies with high-tech industries and a world-class service sector. We compete in a global market and build our prosperity on high productivity and high human capital. Madam President, I would like This debate primarily concerns a committee initiative by the Left, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats on new directives for the report on labour immigration. The committee's initiative will hopefully give us a little faster answers about how so-called competence expulsions should be stopped. We give the investigator the task of putting forward legislative proposals for stricter penalties for employers who make use of the labour immigration system. It also concerns the right to compensation for workers who have been used. It is a rather watered-down proposal, but we would rather take ant steps in the right direction than stand stomping on the same spot. So, as a wavemaster on this issue, we choose to support the initiative as a whole and we call for the committee's proposal to be approved. But, Madam President, this proposal could have been so much better. We Swedish democrats, together with the Christian Democrats, had proposed changes and improvements to the directives that could have made a real difference. The fact that an economy as advanced as the Swedish economy is sometimes in need of international cutting-edge expertise to continue to develop is of course natural. We want to promote competitiveness and we want to solve temporary gaps in the workforce. For example, it is widely known that too few engineers are trained in Sweden, especially in IT. We have therefore enjoyed, among other things, Indian IT specialists. In recent years, however, Swedish labour migration has changed. It is less and less about skills and qualifications, and more and more about low wages and abuse. A very large part of the labour migration to Sweden today consists of people with low-skilled professions, such as berry pickers, waiters, pizza bakers and the like. We have also been able to see intricate networks of family-based personal assistance imported from the home country. Meanwhile, unemployment among the low-skilled in Sweden, especially those born abroad, is hugely high. This has been the case year after year, with no major change. In addition, there is now every reason to worry about how the coronapandemy and the shutdown of the economy will affect the Swedish labour market. We are now talking about an unemployment rate of 9 – 10% – we have not seen that for a long time. How will this affect? Madam President, I would like So we could already have taken the first major step in the marathon that legislation is and added more directives. We could have had a salary floor of $35,000 a month. It is a sum that makes cheating and exploitation more difficult and at the same time gives a margin so that foreign labour does not become a burden on Swedish society. In addition, we could have made exceptions to the pay floor in the case of qualified shortages where the general wage level is slightly lower, such as nurses and nurses. We could have made supply demands for those who work in Sweden and want to bring their relatives here – quite reasonable. And we could have abolished so-called track changes, where people who have been refused asylum can still stay to apply for a work permit instead. This is an opportunity that has been misused; we know that. It provides anything but order and order in migration policy. Madam President, I would like We regret that the committee was unable to agree on these points even though there should actually be a hopeful majority for all of them. But with that said, it is nevertheless gratifying that the opposition has managed to agree to improve people's conditions in the Swedish labour market. We look forward to more such initiatives.
i-df564da4f89ac162-367	Madam President, I would like Today, at this difficult time, we are going to debate additional directives to the report on labour immigration. Madam President, I would like Labour migration has historically been positive for Sweden and has contributed to our country's development. A well-functioning labour migration can continue to contribute a great deal both to those who come here to work and to Swedish society, our economy and our labour market. Labour shortages in different sectors and occupations can be addressed. People who come here contribute with new knowledge, and new contact areas are created. However, if labour migration is to continue to make a positive contribution for the employee, employer and society as a whole, there must be guarantees that immigrants are not exploited and are not used to dump pay and working conditions on the Swedish labour market. Unfortunately, Madam President, this is not the case today. Every day people are exploited in the Swedish labour market. No one in this House can be unaware of that. These are people who have left their home countries with promises of work for good pay and fair terms. Once here, the reality is quite different. The Left Party, together with this House, has seen painful examples of the unscrupulous exploitation of people ever since the reform took place. We see, for example, people in the restaurant business who work 12 hours' pass every week for just a few thousand a month. We see women in nail salons who are forced to pay back large parts of their salary to the employer, and we see other women in the beauty and cleaning industry who, due to their dependence on the employer, are sexually exploited. We see people who live in the employer's basement to huffless rents and others who work on dangerous constructions without protective equipment. The explanation that this can take place in the Swedish labour market, Madam President, is simple. The rules introduced by the Alliance Government and MP are characterised by an imbalance of power in favour of the employer. It is up to the employer himself to decide whether you need foreign labour, whether the reason is that there is actually a shortage of work or whether the real reason is that you want cheaper labour, which because of its dependency is also easy to exploit. It is the labour immigrants who are punished when the employer has done the wrong thing. If the employee receives a lower salary or less favourable conditions than promised, he risks being sent home, often in debt against the employer who actually caused him to be sent home. The employer, in turn, is free from responsibility and can commit errors time after time without consequences. The union testifies to the fact that it is difficult, if not impossible, to see what conditions really exist. Many are afraid to testify because of their dependence on the employer. The fact that the work permit is linked to an individual employer makes the dependency relationship very difficult to break. Madam President, I would like At one time we in Sweden, through a joint struggle within the labour movement, got rid of the state system, where people were completely in the hands of the employer for housing and livelihood. Today's statare is Vietnamese Thu on the nail salon, Moroccan Yassin who washes at the restaurant and Xi from Mongolia that dismantles asbestos plates on the building without protective equipment. Ever since the introduction of the new rules in 2008, the Left Party has been pressing to tackle exploitation and slavery. Some steps have been taken, and we have welcomed them. But the need for fundamental changes to change the imbalance of power between employers and employees persists. As long as this does not happen, we will continue to have a situation in the Swedish labour market where working conditions and wages depend on the origin of the labour force. We can't keep doing that. Additional directives are therefore needed for the investigation. The unwillingness to shake up this imbalance of power in favour of the employer is reflected in the directives given to the new report on labour migration based on the January agreement. The Left Party expected more from a Social Democratic government. After having repeatedly been in contact with the government to try to find a common solution, we chose instead, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, to seek an agreement that takes steps to shift the imbalance of power. It is good and important that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are willing to correct some of the mistakes made in implementing the reform in 2008. The aim of our talks was to find proposals that could find broad support in the Riksdag, with the hope that the Social Democrats in particular, who are rooted in the labour movement, would support the need to stop exploitation. It is no secret, Madam President, that the Left Party would have liked to have seen stronger results of the agreement, not least in terms of labour market testing and legally binding employment contracts, but the three parties managed to agree on some important steps to begin to overcome the imbalance of power leading to exploitation. The proposals mean that by 1 May 2020 the Government will provide the report on labour immigration with additional directives. The commission of the investigation will now also include making legislative proposals, partly because the so-called competence expulsions, i.e. expulsions due to shortcomings or deviations that are negligible and excusable, will end, and partly because of increased penalties for employers who use the labour immigration system and the right to compensation and the right to stay for employees who have been exploited. In addition, the investigation shall, if necessary, propose a criminal offence. It should not be possible to exploit people as they do today. The Left Party sees this as a step in the right direction in order to begin to overcome the imbalance of power that creates room for exploitation. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-df564da4f89ac162-381	Madam President, I would like Proper labour migration is important and contributes to the development of a country and to a growing economy. At the same time, we must safeguard the conditions that apply in the Swedish labour market and combat abuse of the rules. In order for us to have and promote a free and growing business environment, it is essential that rules and working conditions are maintained. We Christian Democrats want labour immigration that is compatible with these values. The directives that apply to the ongoing labour migration investigation are not sufficient. I therefore support the Social Security Committee's proposal for a new supplementary directive for the investigation. It is, moreover, an investigation that can be said with great caution to be long awaited, because the Parliament has been calling for action in this particular area on several occasions for several years. However, the Christian Democrats would have liked to have seen further steps to get to grips with this in real terms. I would therefore like to refer to the specific opinion that we Christian Democrats have put forward in connection with the handling of this dossier. The Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Left Party, have agreed on three points. The moderate Member of Parliament, Mr Arin, has well summed them up, so I will not repeat them here. However, I would like to add one thing that I think is important in the three points, and it is about the person who is lured here to Sweden and who is forced to work under working conditions or to a salary that is not at all in line with what has been suggested. This person must be able to identify the company and have the opportunity to remain, i.e. retain his or her work permit, provided that he or she seeks employment. What is commonly called whistle-blower is effectively stopped for. A person who explains that he or she is not handled properly or that the work situation that the person is expected to come to is not delivered at all when he or she comes to Sweden has a long way to go and a very high threshold when it comes to specifying the company. There are therefore several parts of the three points on which the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party have agreed and which, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, also won a majority in the committee which makes the investigation a little better. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have a special opinion on this issue. We would have liked the investigation to have had further and clearer directives to come up with proposals that really address the problems of labour immigration. Together with the Swedish Democrats, we put forward four points in committee, which, however, did not receive support there. The Swedish design of labour migration is contrary to the knowledge available for designing a successful model. Sweden is the only country in the Western world that has opened its doors wide for people to perform low-skilled tasks. We also take the zero impression of whether or not there is a shortage of labour in a particular profession, even though, at least before the Corona crisis struck, only five countries in Europe had higher unemployment than Sweden. A fundamental thought for us when we formulated our positions was the view that labour immigration is not something that only companies have to decide about, but that the country must also get into the equation. Sure, it is the companies that employ, but the country must have the opportunity to specify the conditions that will apply for labour migration to be up to date. Labour immigration should also enrich the country, not just the companies, and it is reasonable that Sweden, like all other countries in the Western world that have functioning welfare systems, should set a number of conditions for how labour migration should take place. The four points agreed between us Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are that we want a restriction on labour immigration if wages are below the average wage, which is 34 900, unless they concern professions where there is a shortage of labour. The displacement that is now in place in Sweden, where we have able-bodied people who are unemployed, must be stopped. In addition, we believe that today's salary floor, which is 13 000 SEK per month, should be raised to 35 000 SEK per month – this to tackle cheating and exploitation and ensure socio-economic profitability. We want a supply requirement for those migrant workers who bring their family members here, and we want the possibility of a change of track to be abolished. It may seem a bit too sharp to say that our Swedish legislation on labour immigration is designed in a way that runs counter to the knowledge that exists about how a successful one should be designed, but I have borrowed that description from migration researcher Magnus Emilsson. He has also shown that the stated aim, namely to bring people to professions classified as shortages, does not work in practice. On the contrary, an increasing proportion of labour migration has taken place in occupations where we already have a surplus of labour. There is no rational reason why we in Sweden should have extensive labour migration to low-skilled jobs when we have a large group of working-age people who are unemployed. These jobs should go to the Swedish unemployed, and we should not import labour from the other side of the world.
i-df564da4f89ac162-394	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that labour migration is extremely important for Sweden, for our economy, for the individual and, above all, for our business community's ability to secure their skills. The regulatory framework in Sweden was amended about ten years ago, when it was removed from government review, as it is called. This means that the backbone of our labour immigration model is that it is the individual employer who should define the need to bring in staff from third countries, for example. There are no politicians who say, "You can't, you can't, but it's the companies themselves that define their need for skills." This is the spine of the system, and it is important. On the Liberal side, we are clear that we stand by this. In the January agreement, there are also clear wordings that the current system should be protected. It is about this. Then there are other parts relating to labour migration where it is perfectly reasonable to now start looking at the system to see what consequences it can have. There are two examples, but this is very disparate. On the one hand, the regulatory framework tends to be too rigid when it comes to some people who, for example, cannot have their work permits extended because of a minor offence by an employer or a former employer. This is what we usually call competence demonstrations. In that part, the legislation that we have is unreasonably hard on the individual. On the other hand, it can be said that we have an opposite situation where individuals can be exposed to exploitation and exploitation of rogue employers, fake employment, being tricked into Sweden, not getting the salary they are entitled to and so on. That, too, is unreasonable. This, Madam President, means that the system should now be reviewed with very good reason in order to be able to adjust and make it work better, while maintaining what is the backbone of our labour migration, namely that it is the business sector that assesses its need for skills. What we are now discussing specifically today is the so-called committee initiative negotiated by the Moderates, the Left Party and the Christian Democrats, and which has also been supported by the Swedish Democrats. I understand that these proposals are very much in line with what the investigation that has been launched is already going to look at. I'm asking myself a little bit of a question that we're going to risk extending the investigation. It may only lead to greater problems for some labour migrants who can act in a tight way. The directives that have now been drawn up will look at this. It is about cheating on the part of employers, skills deportations and a lot of other things. We in the Liberals are in favour of this. A large part of the issues that the investigation deals with will be presented in February next year. The last parts will be in November next year. Hopefully, here in Parliament, we can take it from there and get even better legislation for Swedish growth and labour migration.
i-df564da4f89ac162-402	Madam President, I would like I forgot to mention one brief aspect in my speech. The committee initiative was taken not long ago, but things have changed very quickly in the world. This happened before the Corona crisis. As there is a date in the committee initiative which is close to 1 May, I would like to say that I hope that there is an understanding from the initiators that the date may be slightly shifted because of the crisis. I assume that no one thinks that measures should be put on the table of the Government Office which have to do with the spread of the disease to do away with this work. That is all I wanted to say, Madam President. I assume, as I said, that there is a broad understanding of this.
i-df564da4f89ac162-406	Madam President, I would like People in Sweden have been creating things for thousands, perhaps 13,000, years. Some of what has been created is gone, and other things we have saved. Some are holding, and others are not holding. Some are good. Other things are amazing. Some we do not really understand anymore, and we may even shrug our shoulders in front of it. We cannot stop being fascinated by other things. Some are surely inspired by people from the other side of what we know today as the Swedish border. Other things are completely unique to Sweden. A person within the present borders of our country who has had a very own idea certainly exists, just as there are people who have been given ideas inspired by other people from other countries. In retrospect, we try to draw lines between the different things we find in the past. We're trying to see patterns in these lines. A little depending on how you draw these lines you see different patterns. We try to understand and interpret ancient times. But sometimes we also try to create an image that we then try to put on how this is to be interpreted by putting certain patterns and metaphors in front of others. The truth is, however, that many different images can be true at the same time. A thing created in Dalarna can be related to something created in Uppland or Skåne. But at the same time it can also have a relationship to something created in Norway. And if something has been created in Norway, there may also be a contact with Scotland and so on. These images can be true at the same time. It can be something that is genuinely Swedish, but it can also have links to other countries. Madam President, I would like When we discuss things like these, I think it would be good if we took away the mystery a little bit. We should remove the shimmer of mystery over cultural heritage and see things as the amazing thing they actually are. There is no need for mythology or a great story about nationalism to see that good things have been created in Sweden. Some have been inspired by other countries, and some have come up with their own ideas. There is no need to deny that we have done good things in Sweden. It is enough to state that there are good things that are done here. We have made up some of them ourselves, and some have been inspired by others. It's fine as it is. There is no need for a great mythological story about this. People in our country who have created something and their products, thoughts and ideas do not get better or worse if you have come up with it all by yourself or if you have got inspiration from outside. It doesn't matter if the meatball was first created in Sweden by someone who realized that you could lump up a little ground so that it became something else. It does not get better or worse if such inspiration came from any other country or if you did the same in any other country at the same time. It's just as well. Madam President, I would like Demytology of cultural heritage would be beneficial for Sweden and the debate on it. It would be a lot easier. It's time to de-dramatize the whole thing. It is strange that there may be a storm of hate when an airline makes a commercial where you problematize that we belong in different ways and that we learn from each other. Some things are Swedish. Some are Swedish with inspiration from others. Some we've only imported. It's weird that there might be a storm of hate. This is because we are trying to say that the very interpretation of cultural heritage that we do ourselves is the right and reasonable and the only true one. That is not the case, however. What if there are multiple, simultaneous and true stories and interpretations? In this report, the Committee on Culture is discussing cultural heritage. The discussion on this is often inflamed. However, all the motions that we in the Swedish Parliament have written about this also show that there is a great deal of commitment. Around the country there are members of parliament who have captured this great commitment that is everywhere about cultural heritage. Liberals highlight, among other things, the need to simplify the import of works of art. When a museum or an art gallery wants to do an exhibition, it can sometimes be good to complement from other countries, and then the hassle must be less. We also raise the problem of sometimes finding archaeological finds when building new ones. These resist each other, which may make it more difficult to build new ones. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to say that the cultural heritage in Sweden is fantastic. We've created so much that's very good. But there is no need for a mythologising nationalist story about this. It's just as well. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-df564da4f89ac162-420	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating issues relating to cultural heritage, something that is large and broad. As far as the Moderates are concerned, I will particularly highlight the role of museums as independent institutions, shaped living environment and repatriation of Sami remains. The objectives of cultural policy, already set by the Alliance Government, indicate the direction that the State wants to take in cultural policy. According to the objectives, culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. For the Moderates, it is obvious that the distance of arm's length should exist between the practitioners of culture and politicians. It is fundamental that art should be free. It is to be protected from political mischievousness; arm's length must be a reality. The state should not go in and condition, i.e. govern, the art and the free institutions, however legitimate these ambitions may be. State cultural policy objectives should not be governing to the extent that they exclude certain groups. The government should therefore review regulatory letters and government commissions in order to reduce the political governance of the content of art and culture. Madam President, I would like Sweden's museums are important for both learning and education as well as as as managers of cultural heritage and history. We attach the utmost importance to the role of museums as independent institutions. The museum's activities will be characterised by knowledge building and a high level of competence in each subject area. Publicly funded cultural institutions, such as museums, should not be politicised. They should of course be based on a democratic basis, but the content should be free as much as possible. Today's political trends should not govern the content of culture. Political pointers can lead to self-censorship and, at worst, historical revisionism and fear of highlighting parts of cultural heritage. It is therefore important that the whole culture be free of this. Madam President, I would like Culture permeates society in different ways, and it also manifests itself through architecture and art in new homes as well as public spaces. Sweden is growing rapidly, and Boverket estimates that 600 000 new homes need to be built by 2025. This also means the creation of new public spaces. In order to safeguard art and architecture in the public space, we should look both backwards and forwards. The demolitions that took place in the second half of the 20th century, and then the emergence of the so-called million-year programmes, meant important standard increases in the form of running water, for example, and reduced overcrowding for many in our country. But experiences from this time have also shown that comfort and security are more than that. The ripple wave made irreversible impressions in many Swedish cities, and many of the interventions seem to be quite difficult to understand. We should learn from this contemporary history. The balance between new and old, between conservation and innovation, is rarely simple. But they do not always have to be opposed to each other. Here, the state can play an important role in creating the conditions for architects, artists and other creative groups to collaborate as new residential areas emerge. The state can also set an example when designing public spaces by clearly linking construction, architecture and artistry. In this endeavour, however, it is equally important to acknowledge the power with which environments can grow and develop organically through the combined forces of individuals. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, I would like to highlight the issue of the repatriation of Sami remains, an excellent initiative by the Center Party, which the Moderates have also chosen to support. During history, our indigenous Sami people have often been mistreated by the Swedish state. One example is the Sami remains found in Swedish collections. One way to heal the wounds caused by the government is therefore the repatriation of Sami remains. This means that the remains that have been abducted by the state are being unduly returned. The Sami have long demanded the return of human remains in government collections. Yet only a few remains have been returned. Last year on the day of the indigenous peoples, the largest repatriation of Sami remains in Sweden has taken place so far. The remains of 25 individuals were returned to their original resting place at Gamma Square in Lycksele, where they were dug up as late as in the 1950s. Since 2018, there has been a new museum team that clearly says that museums will participate in repatriation. The Society and the National Heritage Office were tasked with developing guidance for repatriation, and the Museum of History was given a main responsibility among the museums. We Moderates believe that it is important for the state to speed up the return of Sami remains, as this is also an important part of the reconciliation work with the Sami people. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse the Moderates' reservation No 1.
i-df564da4f89ac162-432	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 11. I am probably going to spend a little bit of my speaking time and apologise for that from the outset. Today, in the midst of a pandemic, we are debating the motion for a resolution on cultural heritage issues. It is an area that is close to the heart of us Swedish democrats, and I think that no one is surprised either. Since the opening of the Riksdag, we have spent several hundred million SEK more than the government in the field of cultural heritage and on more initiatives. In this year's budget, we put together all the initiatives and called it a billion-dollar cultural heritage. So we are putting in EUR 1 billion to enable our next generations to take part in the cultural heritage that remains. There is no party in this congregation that invests as much as we do in this area. It is important to safeguard and nurture Swedish cultural heritage, both for the unity of the nation and to increase knowledge of Swedish history and identity, both in Sweden and abroad. This is how we describe as a party in a sense the view of our cultural heritage. By learning, retelling and passing on knowledge, we also deepen our own understanding of it and our surroundings. What we have once been has made us what we are today. It may sound cliché, but at the same time it is a simple sentence with a great depth. Madam President, I would like In this report we have six reservations from the SD. I will not talk about everyone, but responsibility for the World Heritage Sites, hunting with stray dogs and the k-marking of ships I want to highlight this year and put a little extra focus on in my speech. In addition, three areas have not been sufficiently addressed by the other parties. Did you know that Sweden is one of the world's most recreational boating countries? Our pleasure boats are part of our moving – I might say floating – cultural heritage. The Maritime Museum has a k-marked 135 culturally-historically valuable boats, and more are in the pipeline. The purpose of the k-marking is to show attention and appreciation to the people who have invested both time and money in nurturing and using older recreational boats. More needs to be done to protect the fluid cultural heritage. That is why we are calling for the preservation of maritime cultural heritage through the extension of the labelling of ships and for greater benefits for them, such as boat clubs, shipyards, ports and channels that help to make cultural heritage visible. Madam President, I would like Hunting may be an issue that is being dealt with and debated by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, but today we are dealing with hunting with stray dogs in relation to the issue of classifying it as part of our cultural heritage. Man has been hunting as long as we were on this earth. In the North, we've been hunting with loose dogs for centuries. Today, it is an important part of the hunt, not least in the search for injured animals. In line with urbanisation, we are living further and further away from nature. This, in turn, leads to great ignorance. We are seeing forces today that want to ban loose dog hunting without seeing what consequences it will bring. An intellectual cultural heritage aims to ensure respect for and increase knowledge of oral traditions, social customs and traditional craftsmanship. A classification of loose dog hunting as cultural heritage is an important piece of the puzzle in order to preserve hunting forms with loose dogs in the future. We hope that the government will urgently investigate the possibility of obtaining a classification of lice dog hunting as an intangible World Heritage Site. In 1984 Sweden signed the World Heritage Convention. Now, as a nation, we have a special obligation to protect, preserve and nurture the World Heritage Sites of Sweden forever. It has emerged that the understanding of this responsibility has sometimes failed from the public. In 2011, it was discussed whether Bypass Stockholm would affect the World Heritage Site Drottningholm to the extent that it was in danger of losing its World Heritage status. Only after extensive protests did Trafikverket promise that the road will be designed so that the World Heritage Site is not threatened. During the summer of 2019 it was found that another World Heritage Site, Birka, was not cared for to the extent required. Our point is that the public does not have a clear and comprehensive strategy and responsibility for the care of the world heritage in Sweden. In addition, there is a need to clarify the resource needs, the allocation of funds and the allocation of resources for the management of the World Heritage Sites. It is of great importance that all public parties, from local to state level, know what commitments they are responsible for. Not only would it be extremely embarrassing, but it would be a direct insult to those objects which are of such special importance today that they have just received a memorial if they are not cared for at all. That's how the events are interpreted. Madam President, I would like Perhaps this has to do with the enormous lack of cultural environmental competence in our municipalities. They deal with cultural environment issues within the framework of the Planning and Construction Act but at the same time lack competence. The equation doesn't make sense. It is essential that adequate skills are available to ensure that settlement environments are not distorted, belittled, damaged or even demolished and historical periods thus lost. For this reason, we want to strengthen the cultural environmental competence of municipalities. It is difficult not to mention anything about the current situation. Right now, our society is being tested hard. The cultural sector has been hit on several levels. Last Saturday I visited and bought an annual card at Skansen for warning of bankruptcy because 90 per cent of the public revenue had not been paid due to covid-19. After the weekend's love bombing, Skansen had received SEK 3 million. This shows that Skansen as a museum is appreciated, that one preserves one's cultural heritage. But above all it shows that we think Skansen is doing something important, and that you want to see their activities continue. Several other museums have warned of significant loss of revenue due to a lack of audience. The issue is highly topical. Much will be said, and we will learn more. But here and now we want answers. Will we see the same crisis package for the cultural heritage sector that sport and culture received? Will the cultural heritage sector be able to benefit from the SEK 500 million given to culture? Which museums are next to alert about bankruptcy? Clear answers must be given here.
i-df564da4f89ac162-452	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 on the repatriation of Sami remains. Madam President, I would like The Sami are one of the indigenous peoples of the world and the only indigenous people in Europe. The Sami have a long-standing historical connection to the areas of Russia, Finland, Norway and Sweden where they have been active and developed their culture. It goes back to the time before the formation of the nation state. Repatriation is a process of returning objects or remains to their original or rightful locations. Repatriation is done when it is discovered that remains or objects have been misplaced. Therefore, reconciliation work is also part of the concept of listening up with a painful past and restoring confidence between the taker and the sufferer. The Sami have for many years requested that the Swedish state return the human remains in the state's custody at state museums and in other collections. Nevertheless, as John Weinerhall mentioned in his speech, a few remains have been returned and buried so far. In 2018, a new museum team announced that museums will participate in repatriation. Also in the international museum cooperation ICOM's regulations and the indigenous convention it is clear that repatriation will be done together with indigenous peoples and local peoples one. The Sami Council of the Church of Sweden, the Church of Sweden and the Christian Council of Sweden have also expressed in their opinion to the UN Human Rights Council in preparation for the third periodic review in January 2020 the importance of the Swedish state rapidly developing a nationally relevant and coherent regulatory framework as well as national funding for the repatriation of one of Sami remains. From the Center Party's ida, we believe it is urgent that the state ensure the continued return of Sami remains as a matter of urgency. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party it is self-evident that all children and young people, regardless of economic conditions, where they live or what functional conditions they have, should be able to take part in the state culture. For this reason, it is of course important that culture, such as cultural heritage, is made available throughout the country. There are nationally interesting and important cultural heritage in many parts of our country. State responsibility for cultural heritage and our history must therefore not remain at the borders of the big city and the state museums that are there. For us in the Center Party, it is also not just about the cultural heritage of state institutions. We must also see many of the cultural heritage that exists around our country as an opportunity to be part of the development of the region and the society in which they are located. This applies, I would say, not least these days. Once again, we will be able to move in our country and meet again in social contexts, just a cultural heritage may be the goal of a visit, a trip, or perhaps just for your holiday this summer. But we need to be better at also highlighting important cultural heritage on a national level, including those that are not in Stockholm's direct vicinity. It is at least as much about the close cultural heritage of the whole country. It is the cultural heritage that is often nurtured by regions and municipalities. But it is perhaps even more about the cultural heritage that is nurtured and shown by civil society and private individuals. Madam President, I would like The mobile cultural heritage is a clear example of cultural heritage that involves many people in our country. The mobile cultural heritage is vehicles that have been used and transported people and goods around our country. It's called history bearer from a time when our society became increasingly mobile. Every weekend and almost every everyday evening during the bright season there are events around our country where the moving cultural heritage is recognised and not least used. Many people spend much of their free time preserving these jewels. For the most part, they are non-profit forces that renovate cars, boats and airplanes and run museum railways and museums for these treasures. At the same time, it creates jobs and entrepreneurship in many different ways. It is about selling spare parts as well as mechanics and workshops with specialist knowledge. But it is not least tourist attractions that generate both trade, restaurant visits and hotel overnight stays. This is often created in small towns and in rural areas. The mobile cultural heritage is therefore also part of a living countryside and an opportunity for the whole country to live. However, there are examples where both political decisions and regulatory interpretations by authorities have been obstacles and where even cultural heritage objects within the mobile cultural heritage have been lost. More needs to be done here to facilitate the preservation of our mobile cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage is not just what I have mentioned here in my speech. It's so much more than that. For example, I have not mentioned the intangible cultural heritage, such as folk music, key harp and dance. But that, Madam President, must be on another occasion.
i-df564da4f89ac162-466	Madam President, I would like I believe that many today feel that we are living in a very revolutionary time that will define the political and social direction of the whole world in the coming years. We already understand that what we are doing here in Parliament during these weeks and the coming months marked by the rise of the Corona virus will be interesting for historians and political scientists. What did they really talk about in the debates? Was it possible to debate other things than emergency packages and restrictions of infection? Much of what is written and said here and elsewhere will be preserved for posterity. Other things will be harder to find. Who should be responsible for saving Trumps and Bolsonaros tweeting and people's creative memos on Facebook about the consequences of quarantine? These are clear time markers that are now located on the servers of international companies. The decisions we make about archives, the collection of materials, copies of duties and the resources of the institutions provide the framework for which of our contemporary social expressions, cultural phenomena and objects will then constitute cultural heritage. That thought obliges. Madam President, I would like I will come back to the resource issues in a little while, but before that I would like to dwell on the question of what is in the museums' collections today. In the Museum Act, we have strengthened the independent position of museums. This does not mean that they are non-political, but we must ensure that cultural institutions are not governed by cultural policy. Of course, contemporary times and their political currents affect how we view the past. Value shifts and criticism of previous norms play a role for which research is currently being carried out, and this may lead to earlier interpretations not being considered correct and relevant anymore. There is also an important point in that exhibitions can be made to comment on current issues and thus feel extra interesting for visitors. The Swedish democrats sometimes argue that this means that we get so-called debate museums – it's a concept they use – and think it's something negative and dubbed, perhaps from a red-green direction. Instead, I see it as a desire from the profession to show the importance of our cultural heritage for today's development. What can we learn from history? For example, six months ago there was little interest in the Spanish flu, but it is now possible to see references to this in articles almost every day. It is interesting if the schools were closed during the Spanish flu in 1918. These are things that can be found in archives and documents. Madam President, I would like When I was in elementary school's early years, it was usually the history of kings that permeated the history books and thus formed the public image of Sweden. That picture was not false, but it was very limited and gave us no deeper understanding. How we look at the past has always been politically charged. What stories and whose experiences are considered important? What has happened rarely has only one answer– not because there are no truths but because many truths can exist at the same time. Reality is complex. Class and gender have always given us people different living conditions, and this must, of course, be reflected in history and cultural heritage. Over the years, we have made it clear from the Left that women's lives and working class conditions must be made visible, and the same applies to the culture and history of national minorities. Madam President, I would like Today there are 1,644 museums in our elongated country, and together they have collections of around 100 million objects. That is indeed a staggering number. How have these objects ended up there? This issue has been raised to and from the last few years. What should a museum or scientific institution do when one suspects or becomes aware that one has remains or objects obtained in a questionable manner? I have great respect for the complexity of these issues. The fact that objects and thus stories from all over the world are scattered in museums on all continents can help create knowledge and understanding for people we have never met, both dead and alive. It can lead to respect for other cultures. At the same time, much of the collections at Western museums are collected under colonial conditions and questionable conditions. A clear example at close range is the treatment of the Sami population and its culture. It has taken too long, but there is now a guide in place to help museums deal with, for example, Sami remains and objects collected in an unethical way, for example from racial biology in our country. The guidance is developed by the National Antiquities Office in collaboration with the Sami Parliament. I hope that this will give priority to this work in the future. The Left Party has therefore written a special opinion on the issue in connection with the Center Party's motion on repatriation. Madam President, I would like Last week a very interesting program was broadcast in the P1, the bones of the museums in the closet. Among other things, it was about what I just talked about. More specifically, it was about what we want to remember and what we want to forget. It is a very relevant issue that we are addressing in a motion in today's report. We propose that a memorial be erected for the so-called kiruna Swedes. Their fate is closely linked to a part of the history of the Left Party that we are not proud of. But our path has long been to investigate and make visible our historical mistakes and to draw conclusions from this – not to forget, hide or lie about it in order to appear better to today's voters. During the 20's and 30's many Swedes emigrated to the Soviet Union. Most of them settled in Soviet Karelia. They left a Sweden with poverty, class injustices and high unemployment. Many of them came from Norrbotten, which is why they are sometimes called kirunasvenskarna. Most sympathized with and believed in Soviet Communism. In the Soviet Union, they faced poverty, oppression, and lawlessness. Tens of them were murdered in the terror of Stalinism or perished in prison camps. They belong to the victims of Stalinism. Some of the survivors could return to Sweden. Despite their dramatic and tragic fates, their history was relatively unknown until the 1990s, when they were noticed in books and other media. Many of those who returned felt bullied and expelled by communists in Norrbotten because they witnessed abuse and poverty in the Soviet state. Today very few people live who have their own memories of this time, but around Sweden live survivors of those who suffered. More should be done to preserve the memory of their relatives who emigrated to the Soviet Union and to stimulate independent research into their fates. When the debate on the Kyruna Swedes started in the 1990s, it was partly about the guilt of the Left Party. The party's uncritical and idealizing image of the Soviet Union of the time was spread and gave breeding ground for the idea of travelling away. This discussion led to the then party leader Lars Ohly apologizing for the party's actions on the matter. This was good and necessary. Now we want to re-examine the issue of a memorial in order for more people to pay attention to the fate of the Kiruna Swedes. That is why I am today in favour of reservation 13. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with a few words on the state of the country's museums today. Even before the Corona crisis, many of the country's museums had difficulty coping satisfactorily with their mission. In one survey, the managers questioned stated that they were unable to achieve the objectives satisfactorily. The resources are simply too scarce to keep a good level of security work, maintenance and preservation of objects, as well as making available and documentation via, for example, digitisation. Very few have the opportunity for contemporary documentation and new purchases of what will become the future cultural heritage. The Swedish Museums Jeanette Gustafsdotter has announced that if the crisis lasts, a loss of revenue of around 1 billion is now expected. It was therefore an important political issue and important to have political action even before the crisis, and that is absolutely necessary in the wake of the Corona. The latest example is Skansen's tough economic situation. I hope that the government has this in its planning. We in the Left Party will continue to be a constructive party to launch new proposals and act quickly in this House.
i-df564da4f89ac162-493	Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage refers to material objects, monuments or environments and intangible ideas, traditions or lifestyles that express what even the contemporary remembers and wants to remember of the past. Cultural heritage is therefore not the same as the past or the past, but it is what the present preserves from it. Cultural heritage is created when we decide that something is worth preserving and using as a symbol of a past time. Madam President, I would like It is just as important that an understanding of the cultural environment is given – that is, the environment that has been shaped by us people throughout the ages, which can be from buildings to entire landscapes – as it is to get to know stories, traditions and other intangible values that we take over from previous generations. When talking about cultural heritage in public contexts, the institutionalised national Swedish cultural heritage, which is primarily found in archives, libraries and museums, is usually referred to. The Swedish cultural heritage is mainly managed, which got its conceptual definition during the mid-1900s. This happened in parallel with the entry of nationalism into the world of European imagination. The Swedish Cultural Heritage Administration, with the National Heritage Office as the main actor, devoted a large part of its work to legitimising the emerging national state and to promoting the Swedish national identity. An expression of this spirit of time is the construction of the National Museum, which collected all the historical art objects, antiques and coin cabinets of the country under one roof. The National Museum is still an important institution for our Swedish cultural heritage and a clear symbol of that very spirit of time. Madam President, I would like In time, scientific and political criticism grew against the previously monolithic and homogenising understanding of Swedishness and culture, especially in connection with the emergence of popular movements, political democracy and the industrialisation of work and economy. The nation state is very real as a common collection, with institutions, elected legislators, administrative structures and borders, but also as a historical, social and emotional point of connection. However, the political idea of a people having a monocultural community has been tried and should be seriously questioned. The connection of cultural heritage to politics and power makes it possible to exploit it. Extremists are happy to delete historical cultural environments, and anti-democrats have often changed history in favor of their ruling notion. It is therefore crucial that the interpretation of what is and should be included in a cultural heritage is based on the fact that the institutions have an independent scientific relationship with the level of political decision-making. Madam President, I would like One policy area that the government-supporting parties took on during the last parliamentary term was precisely cultural heritage policy. We introduced a museum law that contains a special provision on the independent status of museums in relation to the political decision-making level. We have defined the museums' overall goal of contributing to society and its development by promoting knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation. We have also increased our ambition to make cultural heritage accessible to more people. This priority should also include the major cultural policy reform to introduce free admission to our state museums. At the moment, efforts are also being made to follow up the intentions with both the Museum Act and the Free-Entrance Reform. In addition, a strate gic international cooperation is underway for the exchange of art. Many of the questions are currently being prepared in the Government Office, and the committee will later this spring debate the National Audit Office's review of the free-entry reform. Madam President, I would like Like many other speakers here, I would also like to highlight the urgent issue of the repatriation of Sami remains. During 1950 - 1951 archaeological excavations were carried out at Gamma Square in Lycksele. The human remains discovered were sent to the Historical Museum for investigation. Unfortunately, it took 66 years for them to return to Västerbotten where they were placed at Västerbottens museum in anticipation of repatriation. On August 9, 2019, on the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples, they were buried in their original resting place. It is the largest repatriation that has been carried out in Sweden's history and will involve reconciliation work and help to make up with a painful past. Lycksele Sameförening, Lycksele kommun, the Swedish Church, Sametinget, Västerbottens museum and museum in Lycksele collaborated to make the ceremony respectful and dignified. During the repatriation in Lycksele, a Sami Truth Commission was announced to be established, which has now begun its work. Madam President, I would like This is the fundamental reason why cultural heritage is important. It will give us a broad understanding of our complex and multifaceted history. And hopefully, through knowledge, cultural heritage can guide us in our time. Sweden is a multicultural society characterised by politics and society's institutions putting individual people's freedom and dignity first. Here, national minorities must be guaranteed basic protection. Having said that, I would urge that all motions for resolutions be rejected and that the committee's report approve the proposal.
i-df564da4f89ac162-506	Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage is our common concern, and it is a matter for all of us. Cultural heritage is well described as traces and expressions from the past that are attributed value and used in the present. It contributes to community and creates an understanding of society's development, our culture and our history. But it can also be the starting point for reflection on, and criticism of, different social patterns. It is important to broaden knowledge of cultural heritage, and it is about education. Cultural heritage is multifaceted. It is the collections of our institutions, our common cultural treasures. But it is also the language and way of life of individuals, buildings and environments, traditions and many other things that together form the cultural heritage. But how cultural heritage is specifically defined is not a matter for politicians. Cultural heritage is defined by how it is perceived and used by all of us together. To the extent that it needs to be determined and defined, it must be done by the profession and research. The policy will create an organisational framework and finance the cultural heritage institutions, while the expertise will be responsible for the management and possibly also to some extent the definition of cultural heritage. We have a museum team. It was adopted during the last parliamentary term with the Green Party in government and with an environmentalist Minister for Culture. It is the first of its kind that we have in Sweden. The Museum Act establishes the independence of museums from politics and formalises the principle of arm's length. The Museum Act also strengthens the status of museums as knowledge institutions. All of this is central and important to the Green Party. Cultural heritage should be interpreted and continuously reinterpreted over time as new knowledge is added. This does not in any way mean that cultural heritage is volatile or arbitrary. On the contrary, cultural heritage must be reinterpreted with humility on the basis of the knowledge available at any given moment. What happens, is done and happens today can be cultural heritage tomorrow. That is why the culture that is being created today must be carefully managed so that it can benefit new generations in the future. The Green Party's party programme begins with three solidaritys. One of them is solidarity with future generations. It is about living in such a way that we can deliver a planet that is healthy and that can live on but where culture and cultural heritage are included. It's important. With the Green Party in government, we have long worked to make cultural heritage accessible to more and across the country. In the Museum Act, it is stated that the collaboration of museums should be facilitated. Collections and objects should be more easily shared between different museums and cultural heritage institutions so that people across the country can benefit from the common cultural heritage. Several of our cultural institutions have received financial reinforcements. The free-entry reform that disappeared in the right-wing alliance's budget last autumn is reinstated. That's good. It is important that entrance fees do not stand in the way of people being able to take part in our common cultural treasures. Cultural heritage belongs to all of us and should be open and free and accessible to everyone. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I should like to express my concern that there are forces in our own country and the outside world that want to use cultural heritage for political purposes. By removing certain parts of the cultural heritage, we want to create divisions instead of transparency and community. Museums shall be free to decide for themselves their activities and exhibitions. Just as the media, research and free art should not serve political interests, neither should cultural heritage. I support the proposal in the Culture Committee's report.
i-df564da4f89ac162-518	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I would like to begin by claiming approval for Moderate reservation No. 4. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the focus and work of both the Riksdag and the Government are now on minimising the harmful effects of the coronavirus on human health and the serious consequences for jobs, entrepreneurship and the economy as a whole. However, I would like to mention something about the motion report on integration that we are now dealing with and about our main moderate inputs into what both before and after Corona is one of Sweden's biggest societal challenges. Madam President, I would like Firstly, people have come to Sweden for generations to work and contribute to our society. We have also taken great responsibility for people on the run. We'll be proud of that. Secondly, however, it is not the same to affirm openness to the outside world as having unregulated immigration. Legally secure and regulated immigration means that a no should be a no and that a yes should be a yes – a promise of a real opportunity to build its future in our country. Sweden is currently failing in both parts. It's serious. Successful integration strengthens Sweden and a failure lowers us. Integration does not take place in any kind of vacuum, but is directly related to migration. If integration problems are to be resolved, our reception of asylum must be considerably lower than it is today. The Moderates are the only party that has a coherent integration policy. We want to turn every stone around to find new solutions. Madam President, I would like Thirdly, there is a fundamental idea in Sweden that integration is about a process that comes from two directions, where immigrants and Swedish-born people will be integrated into a new multicultural society. This is wrong, Madam President. On the contrary, politics should focus fully on the fact that those who come to Sweden are expected to become part of Swedish society. As new arrivals, they have an obligation to integrate and actively make themselves employable and start contributing to Sweden. Fourthly, the big gap in today's Sweden is between those who have a job and those who do not. Unemployment is much higher among immigrants than among natives. Most of those receiving subsistence support were born abroad. It is clear that the government has not been able to use the long-term boom to reduce the integration problems that Sweden has. Instead, the differences between immigrants and Swedish-born have become even more clear. While unemployment has increased among immigrants, unemployment among Swedish born so far, right up to Corona, has almost never been so low. At the same time as the number of Swedish-born with dependency support has decreased, the number of immigrants with dependency support has increased. For this reason, comprehensive reforms are needed across the board in order for more people to be able to get into work and in their own livelihoods. This is particularly true of newly arrived women. Madam President, I would like Fifthly, we also want to implement a major grant reform and introduce a premium ceiling. Among those who receive their main income from the establishment allowance, the driving forces are to start working small, sometimes even negative. This is particularly true of families with children. Here in Sweden, we may also have the greatest threshold effects across the EU. In Sweden, a self-evident principle applies: If you are able to work, you should earn more from receiving a grant than from working. That could, should and should be a matter of course, Madam President. In order for the replacement and benefit systems not to be brake blocks for integration or even to affect the legitimacy of the systems, new arrivals will gradually work on the right to various benefits and social benefits. Full access to Swedish grants and benefits should be obtained only through one's own work. Madam President, I would like Finally, to say the obvious, Corona has, of course, presented us with urgent challenges, more and broader challenges, not least in terms of the labour market. But that does not mean that the integration challenge will disappear or that we will not have to deal with it.
i-df564da4f89ac162-529	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. We are debating integration today, and although we are doing so on 1 April, integration is nothing to joke about. It is absolutely crucial for us to have a country that stays together and is characterised by community, faith in the future and hopefulness. Failure to integrate leads to division, conflict and abandonment. We see examples of this in vulnerable areas in Sweden that are characterised by social exclusion and widespread insecurity. There are also children who have never seen their parents go to work. Although there are good examples that integration has worked, in people who have managed to get a new job in Sweden, create a new life, learn the language and do their part to become part of the community, there are too many examples where integration has not worked even a little. Madam President, I would like Integration measures have not been lacking in recent years. Employment support, supplementary education, municipal introduction programme, start-up talks, work placements, start-up slots, sfi-bonus, job platform introduction, job coaching, entry-level jobs, start-up jobs, extra services and so on are just a few examples of measures taken in the area of integration. Despite this, the reality is that it has not been fully achieved. The difference in unemployment between foreign and domestic born is significant. It becomes even more obvious when you break it down on the basis of sex. Foreign born women are far behind other groups. We know that work is extremely important, albeit far from the only thing that facilitates integration. It is therefore deeply worrying that all these efforts towards the establishment of newcomers have not been able to lead to better results. If it does not bear witness to a misconception in integration policy, I do not know what does. Madam President, I would like I believe that there has been a lack of a comprehensive vision of integration policy. In addition, there has been a fear of making demands on newcomers to take the greatest responsibility for their own integration. Making demands isn't mean. That's not unreasonable. That's caring. Striving individuals will not crack because we are expanding social orientation or asking for a counter-performance. They're not going to rebel because we're introducing a language test. The requirement to learn the language, to obtain a possible education if you need to and to make yourself employable in the Swedish labour market is not unreasonable. Rather, it signals the payback of hard work and that those willing to work hard will be rewarded and receive the support of society. These are principles that few question when it comes to natives. Why, then, should we compromise these principles when the country of birth happens to be different? The Swedish Democrats are proposing a series of measures in the area of integration to achieve the cohesion and community that guides us in politics. I will mention a few of them today. They include the establishment of a Commission of Experts to analyse the problems of integration policies and propose future, new solutions. It is neither sustainable nor justifiable to continue spending billions of tax dollars on integration projects that do not lead to real improvements. Furthermore, the Swedish Democrats propose that the social orientation offered to certain groups of newcomers should be mandatory for all those who are granted a residence permit in Sweden. The education should also be extended to a good introduction to Sweden as well as country and practical knowledge of obligations, rights and opportunities as well as knowledge of Swedish society's culture, history and values. Madam President, I would like Political proposals need to be complemented by a clear vision so that everyone can get a picture of what we want to achieve and that we are all needed in the work on the way there. After all, Martin Luther King's winged words were, I have a dream, I don't have a 73-point program.
i-df564da4f89ac162-539	Madam President, I would like We are now debating AU9 Integration. I would like to mention the establishment of newly arrived women and therefore highlight our reservation No 10. Since 2013, the JIM development programme, Gender mainstreaming in government agencies, has been conducted by the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research on behalf of the Government. In January 2018, the Gender Equality Agency took over the work. The programme aims to integrate gender equality into the work of the 58 participating authorities. The initiative ended in 2018 with the ambition that the authorities' work on gender mainstreaming should continue as part of the regular activities with the support of the Gender Equality Agency. Two authorities who participated in the programme were Arbetsförmedlingen and the Migration Agency. Madam President, I would like The effort has shown a great need for improvement within these authorities. The Migration Board noted that the heterosexual man is the norm in their efforts. The files were created on the men when the families arrived, it was the men who received credit cards and it was the men who were the contact persons. Through the work on gender mainstreaming, the Agency has strengthened the equivalence of the treatment of women and men in reception. Women are now being given bank cards, and the agency has developed a legal position regarding the investigation and assessment of persecution on the basis of gender regarding women. Women and men seeking asylum as couples are also interviewed separately. Arbetsförmedlingen's analyses show that women take part in the agency's establishment assignments to a slightly lower extent than men. Patriarchal structures in the exercise of authority strengthen patriarchal structures in society. The analysis and scrutiny of the activities of these authorities in order to be more equal are important steps towards a more equal reception. In 2016, the Government, under pressure from the Left Party, commissioned the Migration Agency to implement competence-enhancing measures to increase gender awareness in the asylum process. According to the Authority's own accounts, there are now small differences in the treatment of men and women in the asylum procedure. However, the Finnish Immigration Service's development work is likely to be hampered by the reduced funding received by the agency due to the budget reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. With the end of the JIM programming period, we believe that the next step should be a review of the entire reception and establishment process. By integrating gender equality into the entire reception and establishment process, we can ensure that the work of all authorities and municipalities promotes gender equality, from the Migration Agency and SFI education to the police. It can also lead to greater uniformity in the process. Madam President, I would like The Left Party takes patriarchal structures and inequality seriously. This also applies, of course, to the exercise of public authority. With regard to the Employment Service, as the committee points out, analyses have shown that women take part in the establishment of the authorities to a lesser extent than men. As the committee points out, it seems that the authorities' priority of foreign-born women in terms of participation in labour market policy programmes and actions in 2019 has not been achieved. Madam President, I would like I do not share the committee's view that the January agreement – with its right-wing liberal profile – can form the basis for any real gender equality policy proposals. As demonstrated by what I have said before, unlike the committee, I believe that the government should strive for a more feminist migration policy and a feminist reception of people on the run. Madam President, I would like I therefore believe that the Government should mandate the Equality Authority to integrate gender equality into the entire reception and establishment process.
i-df564da4f89ac162-548	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating proposals from autumn's exercise time on the subject of integration, and these are claims concerning, among other things, reception when you come here to Sweden and efforts during the start-up period. The starting point of the Christian Democrats is that people have come to our country, and those who have come here will quickly be given the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives. The state should help to facilitate and create conditions for integration, not kill its own drive through long waiting and passivity. Today, asylum seekers are not expected to learn the language directly when they arrive. It may be a year or two before they are granted a residence permit, and then there will be a long time in passivity, which we find unfortunate. The signal is that integration is not so important that it can wait. Those who later receive a residence permit have lost time, energy and motivation. The Christian Democrats want to see an integration process that starts from day one, that is, already during the asylum period. That is why we have discussed our way into an asylum programme. Some wonder if it does not cost a lot of money to start giving SFI, language education, before the new arrivals have been granted a residence permit, if they may not be allowed to stay in Sweden. But we believe it is so important to get started early that teaching is worth the money anyway. Most of those who receive a residence permit should still read SFI later. We believe that this cost is worth it. Those who receive a residence permit will eventually be placed in more regular establishment programmes for a maximum of two years with, among other things, SFI and social orientation. The fact that, after the two years, just over a third of the new arrivals move on to regular or subsidised work or regular education shows that something needs to change. For far too many people, the establishment programme leads to support for livelihoods and exclusions. The Christian Democrats therefore want to extend the start-up period for those who so need up to five years. For municipalities, this would mean a relief as the responsibility of the state, not least financially, is extended for the group that is not yet matchable. But it can not only be about the length of the programme, but also, of course, about the SFI becoming more personalised and more clearly linked to work and self-sufficiency. The Christian Democrats want each municipality individually or through regional collaboration to offer SFI with a professional orientation. Madam President, I would like A large proportion of new arrivals enter the establishment programme, although the figures vary greatly. Carefully, it is 3 per cent of the recipients of municipalities who do not enter the establishment programme every year. In percent it may seem a little, but in number of people it means 7,000 – 8,000 new arrivals who have been completely excluded from the start-up efforts for the period 2016– 2019. Before it has been six months into the establishment programme, 2 – 4 per cent leave the programme. The Christian Democrats believe that the first two years of the establishment programme must be mandatory and that the sanction system in the establishment allowance must be tightened up. The compulsory part also allows more people to continue the establishment programme even after the mandatory two years. With a longer start-up programme with a mandatory first part, the newcomers who are still deemed to need action after two years would need an extended programme. If the new arrival then achieves its own livelihood or shows adequate knowledge of the Swedish language within the two-year period, compulsory participation ends. No one who has learned the language and has been hired should be held back, but we must do more to ensure that no more are left to long-term exclusion. Madam President, I therefore call for reservation 7 under paragraph 2, the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. Madam President, I would like Some speakers have previously considered that newly arrived women participate to a lesser extent in various preparatory work activities compared with men. They are later registered with the Swedish Employment Service and start Swedish for immigrants later. In Sweden, newly arrived women and men are not met with the same expectations and demands to work. Several studies show that newly arrived women are offered less extensive and less relevant labour market measures than newly arrived men. Isolation is not the answer to getting more foreign-born women to work. Activities to prepare women on parental leave for work through language studies and social orientation are a much better answer. However, the design of these activities must focus in particular on women and their preconditions, as the group is particularly difficult to reach. Training should be compulsory and lead to jobs, for example through mentoring programmes and vocational training. Madam President, I would like Every person has the right to his own life. Often this is taken for granted in our society, but it has remained inaccessible to those who live in an environment where the honor of the family is superior to the freedom of the individual. The Christian Democrats have proposed that everyone who comes to Sweden as an asylum seeker should undergo a special so-called asylum programme, where from day one should get social orientation in order to quickly gain an understanding of women's rights and gender equality in general. In this context, it is natural to also talk about harmful standards of honour and about the legislation that actually applies in Sweden. No one should have to live in Sweden with threats and violence in their everyday lives. The fight against honour-related repression must be intensified. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight the important role of civil society in the work on integration. It is a role that the state cannot and should not take over, but what politics can do is protect and encourage civil society and support the work done on the basis of equal value and democratic principles. Evaluations from a number of Swedish authorities show that civil society organisations played a central role in the reception of all asylum seekers who came in 2015. They showed a power, flexibility and organisational capacity that the relevant authorities could neither match fully nor take advantage of. We need to build on and learn lessons from this in order to create longer-term conditions so that civil society can develop its efforts in the area of integration. Civil society organisations often feel that politics is steering their activities in a too narrow direction and that detailed management is overturning good ideas. We must never forget that it is in voluntary associations that the values and values needed for a functioning society are confirmed and acquired. This is where meetings arise, knowledge is transferred and the alien becomes familiar. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-df564da4f89ac162-563	Madam President, I would like Sweden and the whole world are in the midst of a pandemic. The focus is, of course, on protecting people's lives and health and ensuring that health care has all the resources they need and we all follow the recommendations of the authorities to limit the spread of infection. However, the current situation has also led to a very serious situation in the economy and in the labour market, both globally and in Sweden. We hear daily about notice, and there is great concern about the future among both wage earners and entrepreneurs. Hotels, restaurants, staffing and commerce were the sectors that were affected first. These are industries where many get their first job but also where many work in uncertain conditions, and all who have now lost their job are not visible in the notice statistics. Those most vulnerable in the labour market are also those most affected in times of crisis. Among them are many new arrivals. The challenges of the integration and establishment of those who have fled to our country will be even greater in times of crisis, but also when the economy is once again taking off. That is why it is important that we continue to develop and strengthen measures to equip and support new arrivals in order to get into work and to support themselves. On Monday, further measures were presented which are crucial for mitigating the effects of the Corona virus on the labour market. Employment support is extended, Arbetsförmedlingen's resources are strengthened and even more training places are now in place. The state takes over some of the costs previously incurred by municipalities. The unemployment fund is made available to more people by allowing more people to qualify more quickly for compensation, and the compensation is increased. We in Sweden are well placed to meet the challenges and to remove the obstacles that stand in the way of new arrivals entering the labour market. For many years we have focused on an active labour market policy, in which we are equipping people who have become unemployed so that they can get a new job. It has proved successful through high employment rates among both men and women, and both domestic and foreign born. When you listen to the right-wing parties in this debate you might think that we in Sweden have become worse at integration, but the establishment of new arrivals has improved and accelerated through political reforms and a favourable economic climate. The time taken for newcomers to come to work has been considerably shortened in recent years. We have a lot to be proud of. But there is also a lot we need to take care of, such as gender equality. Among foreign born people there are large differences between women and men in terms of participation in the labour market. Women are not met with the same demands and expectations and do not receive equal support. They are not assigned to the same extent to labour market-related measures as traineeships and employment support, and they often have much longer access to jobs and self-sufficiency. There are also more women leaving the labour force after the establishment programme. That is why we need a clear gender perspective in all decisions. The Employment Service will integrate gender equality activities but also specifically take measures to ensure equal access to support for women and men, especially among foreign born people. In the field of labour market training, too, the task is to distribute the places considerably more equally. Efforts for parental leave are extremely important in order to continue to develop their knowledge of Swedish during the early childhood years. Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led government initiated fast track and extra services. Training obligations were also introduced. Job packages, establishment programmes at Arbetsförmedlingen, local job tracks and the Housing Act came into place. We have cleared among the employment subsidies to make it easier for companies to use them. We have expanded the number of adult training places at all levels and introduced start-up support. In the January agreement there are several measures that I am convinced will help to improve and speed up the establishment of the labour market and society for those who have moved to Sweden. It is efforts that can help to remove several of the obstacles that exist. Although we are good at equipping people and getting them to work, we need to get even better, and there needs to be more roads because we humans are different. We have different needs and different backgrounds. Madam President, I would like It is therefore gratifying that the government has recently submitted a proposal to the Riksdag that will enable more people to acquire vocational training. The state increases its funding of professional adult positions, and an additional state grant is introduced to stimulate more municipalities to provide the opportunity to combine vocational education and studies in Swedish. This is an important effort to enable more people to acquire skills that are needed in many companies and to enter the labour market more quickly. Since earlier, the Government is working to develop forms for how the parties' start-up jobs and the intensive year can be put in place. Both are measures to shorten the path to jobs and self-sufficiency.
i-df564da4f89ac162-575	When you are new to a country, it is crucial to understand how the labour market and society function. Integration, access to important information and breaking segregation have proved vital in the current crisis situation. We have older residents in some of our socio-economically vulnerable areas who have been hit harder by the Corona virus because the authorities' information does not get through, but also because it is not possible to protect the elderly and other risk groups where overcrowding is large and several generations live together. The fact that it looks like that is a failure for the whole of society. Therefore, this cannot be simplified into a debate on language barriers, but it also requires a class perspective. Those most vulnerable in society are most affected in times of crisis. Problems that become more visible during crisis must remain in the light even when the crisis is over, and political reforms are needed to tackle ill health, overcrowding, segregation and large class divisions. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal and reject the reservations.
i-df564da4f89ac162-579	Madam President, I would like I should like to start by apologising for the fact that this speech risks being longer than the pre-announced time. Such things can happen in coronatides as well. The global Corona crisis is now also a global economic crisis. It is, in fact, a global employment crisis with unemployment which, according to the most recent estimates, is expected to rise to about 9% in our country. There are 100,000 new unemployed in a very short time. Varslen has increased dramatically in March, more than in the worst months of the financial crisis. As previous speakers have pointed out, this disproportionately affects precisely those sectors, such as the hotel and restaurant sector, which have been particularly successful in integration. Here, many newcomers have got their first job and many immigrant entrepreneurs have created employment and prosperity. The Corona crisis is, of course, also a crisis for integration in our country. Already during the boom, the situation was serious for the newcomers, the foreign-born, the vulnerable in the labour market. Even then, hundreds of thousands of them were left out of the labour market because of regulations, high job taxes and long periods of waiting and passivity. Even before the crisis there were broken prospects, and unemployment was allowed to characterise some suburbs and neighbourhoods of our cities – precisely those suburbs that are now hard hit by the spread of the Corona virus due to overcrowding, poverty and lack of integration. This plays a heartbreaking role in this situation. Now the concern is that all those who were already outside the labour market at the top of the boom are going to end up at the back of the queue and that all those who just got a foot in the labour market are now losing their footing when they are first out, alerted and laid off. This is a huge challenge. It may seem that the chances of integration are screwed in a crisis like this. But it's not over. Let me give you an example. It is about two geographical areas in Sweden, both with many new arrivals who have fled from war in a short time and come to Sweden in the middle of an economic crisis. In both areas, approximately 2% of the population is new, and they have roughly the same educational profile. Some have a high level of education, but most of them are low-skilled. The two areas are Malmö and the Gnosjö area. We actually know how it went, because this is not now but a historical parallel. It is about the Bosnians who came to Malmö and the Gnosjö area in the middle of the deepest 90s crisis. Three years later, 30 percent of those who came to Malmö were in jobs, while over 80, almost 90 percent of those who came to the Gnosjö area were in jobs, despite the crisis. This reminds us of the huge difference in how integration can be done. I myself have had the privilege to meet some of them in the Gnosjö area who made the journey to work in the middle of the crisis-stricken Sweden. They tell us that while their relatives and friends in Malmö met with contributions and measures, they met themselves in the Gnosjö area by companies and unions who showed tremendous flexibility to find all the gaps into jobs. They were met by a climate where everyone knew a small business and where entrepreneurship was important to everyone. They were met with demands and expectations to take the jobs that were given and not live a day too long on grants. The reception was intense and warm. Unfortunately, it may not be possible to do quite the same in these coronatides. But we need something similar in order to succeed in integration as soon as the Corona crisis turns around. It is therefore important to implement the reforms that make Sweden more like Gnosjö. We must do everything we can to ensure that the fundamentally healthy businesses – many of them small businesses built by immigrants – survive the Corona crisis. These are liquidity support, lower taxes and lay-off wages. However, we must already build for the turning point and recovery so that small businesses, which are now hit hard, can, by means of tax incentives and simpler employment rules, fully employ when it turns around. This is why opening up the labour market for a little lower salary in start-up jobs and apprenticeships are so important. That is also why we need to have an employment service that works throughout the country, including for foreign born and other vulnerable people, who are employer- and performance-based and where independent intermediaries who achieve results are rewarded and can grow so that more people can get help. All these reforms, which we thank God had already started before the crisis, will be absolutely crucial for how we can face job integration during the Corona crisis, for how we deal with the downturn and for how we then manage to get maximum job in the upturn. Right now, when the crisis makes there almost no job, we have to do what we can to further educate and reset as many people as possible while waiting for work. That is what we do in the spring budget. We invest in vocational adult education, folk high school and labour market training that leads to jobs. There's a lot of capacity here. In these coronatides, we must also do everything as digitally as possible, even for those who are not strong in Swedish. Just think about the smart SFI apps, which are available in Malmö, where integration is better. Distance learning showed dramatically positive results for participants even before the crisis. We also need complementary training and smart solutions to open the healthcare sector to the many newcomers who have previous experience in healthcare jobs. New start jobs are the easiest and most straightforward of all measures that have worked best. In our amending budget, we have had the opportunity, thank God, to extend it by one year so that as many as possible do not have to start over with their job integration. Overall, the next few months and the next year will be an extremely painful test both for our country and for integration. But I am convinced that we will be able to cope with the Corona crisis. I hope that as many people as possible think that way, because I think that will be the case. I also believe that we will be able to cope with the unemployment crisis. And just as we once did in the Gnosjö area during the 1990s crisis, if we do the right things, we will manage integration.
i-df564da4f89ac162-601	Madam President, I would like These are special times we live in. Much of our reality is currently being taken up by the Corona, but at the same time there is a topicality to integration and establishment issues, the area in which this report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is concerned. For all those who are unemployed, these are now difficult times. When unemployment rises, it is those with the weakest anchors who get the most hurt. This applies, among other things, to people with low education who have come to Sweden and have not yet gained professional experience here. They are not heard much in the debate, but issues of integration and establishment are clearly topical at the moment. The objective of integration policy is to ensure equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all regardless of ethnic and cultural backgrounds. It's about the opportunities people have to create their lives. Much is being done in Sweden in the area of integration, and more is under way. Good reforms as shown in the January agreement include the intensive year, the start-up jobs and strengthened opportunities for women who are on parental leave to learn Swedish – the latter is an issue that the Environmental Party has pursued. Civil society plays an important role in the fight against segregation, which is, to say the least, important for integration. Therefore, it is good and urgent that the funding for the work towards segregation has been strengthened and that civil society is given more opportunity to contribute to a reduction in segregation at the local level. Children's growing-up conditions in areas with socio-economic challenges are a special focus area. Since this report was drafted and dealt with in committee, the government has come up with a number of financial packages that will make it easier for businesses, employees and the unemployed. The maximum time for extra services, introductory jobs and new start-up jobs is extended, as well as support for start-up of business. There will also be more labour market policy interventions for labour market training and programmes. These are important and urgent initiatives. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight some other areas on which the government is focusing and which we in the Green Party also see as particularly important. The Cold Facts programme recently took up the situation of foreign women on the labour market and that they receive significantly less help than men from the Employment Service. It is a question of meetings that are less frequent, that efforts are not given to the same extent and that the result is therefore, not surprisingly, worse. This is very worrying. Arbetsförmedlingen is aware of the problem and is actively working to overcome it. The issue is also clearly included in the regulatory letter that it has. There will therefore be improvements. This also shows how important the work against discrimination is. In some situations discrimination can occur clearly, but it is at least as important to pay attention and work towards what is happening more or less unconsciously but where the result in itself is discriminatory. Discrimination issues have always been important for the Green Party. We made sure that we got anti-discrimination agencies in Sweden. We have worked to strengthen the role of the Discrimination Ombudsman, and we have contributed to better anti-discrimination laws. Unfortunately, it is not enough that the laws are in place– they must also work in practice. Madam President, I would like The Kvinna till Kvinna Foundation organisation recently held a seminar in the Riksdag. In a project, young girls who came to Sweden from other countries had developed proposals for politicians for improved opportunities. They stressed very strongly how important it is to get information about their fundamental rights and also wanted to see clearer information about society's views on gender equality aimed at all newcomers. They also stressed the importance of involving boys and young men in gender equality work. They raised more concrete points. It is clear from the budget proposal for 2020 that social orientation will be improved, including by focusing more on gender equality and human rights. That's very good. It is also good that the County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland has been tasked with developing parts of the educational material used in social orientation. Among other things, more focus will be placed on gender equality and human rights, and methodological support for social orientation will be developed. The municipal allowance for the reception of refugees has been strengthened to increase social orientation from at least 60 to 100 hours, which is a clear improvement. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about sustainable society. We have every reason to look forward now, too, to what is happening after the current crisis. We need to do everything we can to create a sustainable society in the long term. Everything we do needs to be durable and sustainable. We simply cannot afford not to. It is about climate, the environment, biodiversity and, not least, about having good preparedness. But sustainability is not only about the environment and climate, it is also about social sustainability and whether all people are given a good opportunity to operate on the basis of who they are and the interests and potential they have. All this is a challenge, but it is also a great opportunity. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-df564da4f89ac162-617	Madam President, I would like The battles about integration are extremely urgent, especially in these times. One of our major challenges, with the Corona crisis and its economic consequences, has become even more urgent and even greater. We know that people who have come to Sweden from other countries are very much starting businesses, creating jobs and jobs. This is partly due to discrimination: it is difficult to get a job in the ordinary labour market, so you have to start your own business. To some extent it has to do with having experiences and entrepreneurship from other countries. But we also know that people who have come here from other countries and do not get a job – they may live in areas where unemployment is high and where many others do not have a job – already today, when we have been at the peak of the boom, find it difficult to get a job because they do not have the right social contacts, the right network of contacts and do not know anyone who can recommend them for a job. And there are employers who have not previously hired anyone with a different background than Swedish and who actually engage in discrimination. They just haven't had that experience yet. When Corona sweeps the world and crushes economy after economy, business after business and jobs after jobs, exclusion risks being permanent. People who don't have a job today are in danger of permanently missing a job. From the 1990s crisis and the previous financial crisis, we know that the people who first lose their jobs in a crisis like this are people who already had a weak place in the labour market. Unfortunately, it is often people who have come here from other countries. This is in danger of being permanent. We have to do everything we can to save entrepreneurship. We need to make it easier to take advantage of the fact that many start up businesses and create new jobs by simplifying entrepreneurship, by making it easier for companies to hire and by ensuring that more entrepreneurs, regardless of their background, dare to hire people, regardless of their background. It is about ensuring that more people who come from unemployment or from areas with high unemployment also start businesses and create new jobs so that more people have a contact that can lead to a job. This will lift people out of exclusion and unemployment and into the labour market. If we get a person who is currently excluded from work, it will result in even more people getting jobs tomorrow when social contacts and contact networks are spread. Madam President, I would like I would like to support Amendment No 16 by the Liberals, which deals with the role of civil society. In parts of this country where unemployment is high and there is a major challenge to integration, the meeting places, language skills and networks of contacts disseminated through civil society initiatives will be particularly important. We need to enhance the role of civil society in integration. It is people who volunteer to train in languages and to create social contact areas and meeting places that are often the engine of integration.
i-WHVaCZQaCBwPNGMPgn5P81	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you to accept reservation 12. As in previous debates, I note that the focus of the Riksdag and the Government is now, of course, fully focused on minimising the coronavirus's harmful effects on health, society, jobs, companies and the economy in Sweden. I am therefore going to comment overall only on the motion report on the working environment and working time that we are now dealing with. Work environment issues have been central and debated for a long time. My party colleague in the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship, Mrs Quicklund, who cannot be present here today, has raised this important issue with regard to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark in a number of debates. Concrete measures to counter the high number of fatal accidents, on average one case a week, have been called for. Unfortunately, the government's zero vision of deaths in our workplaces has failed. Concrete measures are now needed to improve the situation. It is the fourth year in a row, Madam President, that deaths are increasing. The trend is quite the opposite to the government's objective of reducing the number of fatal accidents. All workplaces should of course be safe, and all workers should be able to come home safely from their jobs. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have several proposals in this motion report. We propose extending the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences from two to four years and for serious occupational health and safety offences from five to ten years. We propose to introduce annual monitoring of systematic work environment management and prevention of mental illness in workplaces. We propose that the activities and role of regional safety representatives should be reviewed and evaluated, as has never been done, by a government inquiry. The Government has now submitted a proposal to Parliament regarding regional safety representatives, and we will debate and take a position on that proposal in June. However, I can only regret here, Madam President, that the government does not raise the important issue of workplace accidents over party politics, but instead chooses to make internal policy out of all this. It is too important a question for that. Furthermore, we Moderates have proposed that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should be tasked with strengthening supervision of and providing sanctions for employers for occupational groups with particularly high sick leave. Often we are talking about so-called contact occupations and not infrequently, Madam President, about women-dominated occupations. We also want to improve preventive work on mental ill health, including by strengthening the work on preventive treatments against mental ill health within the framework of occupational health care. Madam President, I would like In view of the situation we are currently in, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has decided to pause inspections in cases where employers are particularly burdened by the Corona virus in different ways. New forms of inspections have now also been initiated. It may be televised, other technology solutions or supervisory messages. It is part of making Sweden and Swedish workplaces more sustainable in view of the current situation and the fight against Corona that now actually employs us all. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in an extraordinary situation. Working environment work is of course very much affected by this, to put it mildly. The importance of monitoring and evaluating actual conditions and given efforts in the field of health and safety at work is not enough to stress.
i-df564da4f89ac162-634	Madam President, I would like I have had to jump into this debate a little hux flux, as my colleague Magnus Persson could not attend Stockholm today, so I will actually stay shorter than usual. I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-df564da4f89ac162-635	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Employment's motion for a resolution 10, but it is difficult to focus on other things than the crisis we are experiencing here and now. I'm sorry about that. Sweden and the world are going through the most difficult crisis since the Second World War. In a short time, a pandemic has spread to at least 180 countries/regions around this globe. It is a pandemic whose consequences are still insurmountable. Our common focus here and now is to flatten to the curve, protect risk groups and the elderly, and ensure that health care is provided with the resources needed to cope with its societal mission. But that is not all that is being done. We see a historical wave of notice on the Swedish labour market. Nearly 38 000 people have been told in March that they can lose their jobs. This compares with the worst month of the 1990s crisis, when 22 000 people received the same message. Here lies an even greater number of darkness. There is no need to report notice of less than five people to the Employment Service, and thousands of people with probationary employment, needs and other temporary employment have already seen their jobs disappear. Our economy has had a shock of demand without its like. Madam President, I would like We also see a wave of bankruptcies among companies. Some of these occur naturally, and many who are balanced on a thin line for a while now see no other means but to throw in the towel. It is in this light that we should see the astronomical support packages that just a few months ago would be regarded as mere fantasies. We have presented four emergency packages so far. They are intended to solve the acute cost and liquidity crisis. That is everything from the abolition of the withdrawal of the carer's pension to the temporary taking over of the company's health pay liability by the state. It is a reduction in employers' contributions for SMEs, short-term lay-offs and the availability of unemployment funds for wider groups – not to mention all credit made available to companies in record time. But that will not be enough. Although we have one of the world's most well-managed economies, there are not enough resources to cover all the loss of cash flows of hundreds of thousands of companies around Sweden. People will be out of work. Companies will go bankrupt. And loved family members will unfortunately leave us. It's the harsh reality and nothing I want to put under control. But thanks to our joint leadership and all the amazing innate power that exists in our society, we will be able to cope with this crisis if we help each other. Madam President, I would like We work feverishly at all levels to reduce the harm caused by this pandemic. We will save hundreds of thousands of jobs. Our heroes in elderly care and health care will save thousands of lives, and our society will continue to be robust. This trip, however, will be tough. But both in the near future and in the coming months, we will make even more powerful efforts to save the Swedish economy. We sit in daily meetings, especially digital, to find new creative ways to stimulate the Swedish economy. I can guarantee that I have never seen people work as feverishly and effectively as these days. I feel extremely confident that the work towards our common goal of successfully limiting both the spread of infection and the financial consequences will be successful. Together we will be able to do this. Madam President, I would like Yesterday there were reports that several doctors and nurses in Sweden have become ill with the coronavirus. There is also a huge concern among health and care workers that stocks of protective equipment are gaping empty. This is particularly true of the worst affected areas in Sweden. We have a joint responsibility to ensure a good working environment for the heroes of welfare, who are in the front line and carrying Sweden. We must ensure that their efforts are taken into account and that adequate protective equipment is available in the care and care sectors. Finally, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation 4 in the report. Take care of yourselves, and take care of each other!
i-df564da4f89ac162-646	Madam President, I would like In the report 2019/ 20:AU10 on the working environment and working time, I would prefer to support all our reservations, because the Left Party has such a very good policy. However, I shall confine myself to requesting the approval of Amendment No 18, which deals with the Working Time Act. Of course, I agree with the committee that the social partners have a central role to play in dealing with working time issues. However, unlike the committee, I believe that there is a need for clearer support in the legislation that can provide a basis for the negotiations and the deviations that can be made in the collective agreement. The protection of workers in the law needs to be strengthened in several ways and in several areas. There is a need for a more humane working life with room for more people, where people are not worn out prematurely but are able to work until retirement age. Increasing the influence of workers on precisely the organisation and scope of working time is therefore crucial to achieving a sustainable working life. Madam President, I would like Shorter working hours, i.e. a general reduction in working hours, would be a decisive step in such progressive development of freedom. I can only regret that the committee is once again closing the door to moving in that direction. I think it is a bit stingy that we cannot even set up an investigation with the task of highlighting the possibilities for a general reduction in working time. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, it is not reasonable for workers to have to pay with their health and leisure time in order to meet employers' great need for flexibility and precision staffing, as in the case of shared tours. Shared tours are a form of work that divides the working day into two or even more work sessions with several hours of intermission between the passports. Each individual passport can be short, but the whole day can be up to 12, 13 or 14 hours. The problem of shared tours is raised by the Sustainer Rebellion, among other things. The nurse rebellion is a network that requires, among other things, better working conditions for nurses in the care of the elderly. One of the main requirements of the network is to eliminate shared tours in order to have more time for recovery. The attempts made by the trade unions concerned, particularly the local authorities in this case, to limit the split tours through agreements have been good. But there is also a need for legislative support, a ban or a basis that can provide a framework for negotiations and possible deviations from collective agreements. Madam President, I would like We humans are not adapted to be awake and work at night, and the Working Time Act actually contains a ban on night work. So you cannot work at night unless the contracting parties agree on another location, of course. But otherwise it is actually the law that applies. This gives workers some influence over the organisation of working time. If the employer still wants to spend working hours at night or vary weekly working hours, it is necessary to negotiate and reach an agreement on this with the trade union organisation. This is also happening to a large extent. Employers buy more flexibility and better returns on their investments by offering some form of shorter working hours or some financial compensation. Night and shift work, however, is hard on people, which is why it is very important to have clear protection legislation for people who work on uncomfortable and irregular working hours. Madam President, I would like Under Section 13 of the Working Time Act, all employees must have at least 11 hours of continuous leave for a period of 24 hours. So that's what they call a daily rest period. The daily rest period to which all workers are entitled shall include the time between 00.00 and 05.00. Furthermore, Section 13 of the same law also states that night is the period between 22.00 and 06.00. Research has shown that the human body at night is much more sensitive to disturbances and that long periods of night work can be hazardous to the health of the worker and actually endanger the safety of the workplace. In view of this, it is logical and necessary that we have the same definition of what a night is. Therefore, Section 13 of the Working Time Act should be amended so that night is night both when we talk about daily rest and when we talk about banning night work. Madam President, I would like Another concern is to strengthen the rights of workers whose employers have re-regulated full-time employment into part-time employment. The employer's need for labour is met after such a change that workers are allowed to work so-called additional time. So you have a lower measure, then you still have to work more and so we call it a longer time. Norwegian working time legislation already provides for regulation since 2013 to improve conditions for part-time workers. The regulation gives part-time employees who have worked more time the right to expand their employment. Once a year the actual working time is calculated and if it is higher than the agreed part-time work, part-time work is increased. So you get a new measure. The Left Party welcomes the fact that there are trade unions that are pushing this issue in contractual negotiations and with the employer, but in order to improve conditions for everyone, we also believe that there is a need for a change in the Working Time Act similar to that in Norway. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that I think that the government should set up an investigation to highlight the possibilities of a general reduction in working time, come back with a legislative proposal that restricts or would like to prohibit shared trips, come up with legislative proposals on changing the working time law so that night is night in the same way in the same part of the legislative text and come back with legislative proposals to change so that part-time workers who are continuously working more than their part-time measure are given the right to the employment rate that corresponds to the actual working time.
i-df564da4f89ac162-660	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I support all our requests but choose to endorse only the Christian Democrats' reservation 14. It was previously on the wallpaper from the Moderates. But apparently I didn't get any support for it. Madam President, I would like The purpose of the Work Environment Act and the local work environment work is to prevent ill health and accidents. At work, both employers and employees must be active, and all relevant regulations must be followed. Preventing ill health is good for the employee, but also for the employer and society at large. In EU cooperation, we have also established that healthy working life is good for everyone. We stress that if Europe is to be competitive in the world, we need a healthy workforce. So there is only one win-win situation for everyone to make more efforts for a good working environment out at our workplaces. Madam President, I would like Right now we are in a very serious position. Usually here we talk about stress as a reason for the increased number of sick leave in Sweden. Right now, all workplaces are more or less under constant stress due to the corona outbreak. Basically everyone has got a stress boost if it is about the risk of losing the job, the fear of managing the family's livelihood or new ways of working. Some get less to do, and others get more to do. Fear of getting sick at work is found in many industries. For example, we meet every day in the media descriptions of the health care professionals' stress and concern about their work situation. It is about how they should be sufficient for all patients but also about protective equipment in the care of covid-19 patients. Here the legislation is clear, that is to say, it is the employer's responsibility to ensure that staff are protected. For example, if a safety representative considers that the staff cannot work safely, a so-called safety representative can be stopped. Of course, in the present situation, when so many people need care, it is not easy for a safety representative to make such a decision. But the safety representatives now have a very important role to play in protecting and communicating the work environment of colleagues. According to laws and regulations, safety representatives must monitor both physical and organisational issues as well as social and mental health and safety factors. The staff in health care and care for the elderly do a fantastic job in home care, in nursing homes, in hospitals or in the work of people with disabilities. That is why we must ensure that in this heroic work, which they support for us, they can work safely. Many working groups already need special support and relief talks at work in health care, as many work with end-of-life people. Psychosocial support is therefore important for preventing ill health and should not be underestimated. Sometimes occupational health care can be part of providing this support. Madam President, I would like Many workplaces today have the right focus on the systematic work environment work required by law. This means systematically carrying out annual monitoring of the working environment and remedying detected shortcomings. The employer must cooperate with employees at the workplace with safety representatives but also with outside actors in rehabilitation matters, such as Försäkringskassan and occupational health care. Since the Swedish Work Environment Authority cannot visit all workplaces, especially now – we know that they are usually not able to visit more than 3% of all workplaces – we Christian Democrats have made proposals to develop more interactive instruments in order to be able to account for their work environment. For example, we propose examining the conditions for introducing a system of health and safety declarations that both employers and employees together produce and implement easily. I think we need to start much more with modern ways of reviewing, controlling and reporting work environment work and making it easier for employers to do the right thing. Preventing fatal accidents at work must be a top priority regardless of government. People dying at work is never acceptable. Unfortunately, the number of deaths at work has not decreased in recent years. We have stated in our motion and in a reservation that we want a zero vision and that the government must do more. Lack of leadership, poor safety culture, lack of introduction to work at new positions and stress at work are some things that need to be analysed more. We need to increase the motivation of both employers and employees to make workplaces safer, especially for seconded workers, for example on our construction sites. For many it is difficult with the Swedish language, and they thus find it difficult to understand all instructions at the workplace. It is important that the government now further identifies what needs to be done to seriously reduce the number of deaths in order to achieve the zero vision. Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of regional safety representatives, we have no reservation in this report, but a specific statement that we are coming back on this issue when we are going to deal with the government's recent proposal on this issue. Madam President, I would like Finally, we see worrying signs of an increasing number of sick leave. A broad approach is now needed to address negative developments and to do all that can be done, especially in the case of young people, when mental illness is increasing. This is the second most common reason for sick leave. We will certainly also see other types of sick leave related to stress and anxiety associated with the coronapandemia. Occupations with an increased risk of sick leave appear in schools, health care and care, areas in which women are dominant. The situation is getting worse dramatically in the pandemic in which we are currently living. Here, as I see it, the government will need to give special assignments to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to review the healthcare organisation. However, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, which is a national knowledge centre for research and development, should also be commissioned. For example, they could see how psychosocial support for health care staff works.
i-df564da4f89ac162-677	Madam President, I would like In these times it feels almost surreal to discuss something other than what we all have on our lips and in our hearts and that we all discuss in conversation between people. Nevertheless, I would like to devote this speech to talking about this report, which deals with a very important issue, namely the working environment. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. This debate is, in fact, about an issue that ultimately affects people's lives and health, namely our working environment. In these coronatides, the issue of good work environment has a very clear extra dimension. All the people who make enormous efforts every day to make society work, after all, are also at risk of being exposed to health risks in carrying out their important work. It is, of course, about all those who care for and support hospitals and nursing homes. But it is also about bus drivers, school and preschool staff, shop workers and many more. For their safety and safety too, it is of the utmost importance that we all help to reduce the risk of infection by following the recommendations of the authorities. The government has taken a wide range of measures to mitigate the effects of this pandemic. One of them is that there is also a full focus on ensuring that the regions are supported to strengthen resources for health care, and not least to ensure that protective equipment is available, including through initiatives within the EU and a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare. But that said, health and safety issues are of course important in all sectors every day of the year. Of course, each of us will do our duty and go to work. But we also have the right to return home in the same condition as when we left. Madam President, I would like No one should have to die at work. The government's zero vision is clear and binding. Every third fatal accident in the construction industry occurs in workplaces where safety representatives today do not have access. The government is now making a proposal to give regional safety representatives access to all workplaces that have collective agreements. For us, the Regional Safety Officers are important. Yes, their work can ultimately be about life or death. I hope that Parliament will support the Government proposal, which will be discussed here in Parliament later this spring. Madam President, I would like Of course, most employers want to offer a good and safe working environment for their employees in close collaboration with trade unions and safety representatives. Unfortunately, on the Swedish labour market there is also another category of employers who exploit people, evade taxes and violate virtually all laws and regulations, including the Work Environment Act. Bad companies like these have no place in the Swedish labour market. Government cooperation to reduce working life crime is therefore extremely important. On behalf of the government, eight authorities last year carried out more than 2 000 unannounced controls against companies suspected of using labour or committing other crimes. More than one out of ten controlled companies were forced to close down all or part of their activities due to the shortcomings detected. Some ninety of them had workers who worked illegally or were not registered for the register of postings. More than SEK 10 million in fines have been issued. These controls are important and will continue and increase. The government has also appointed an investigator with the task of reviewing how the work will be carried out in the future, which the committee welcomes. Mental illness is a major and increasing problem. Work on creating long-term healthy workplaces and strengthening organisational and social work environment work is very important. This applies not least to women's workplaces. Madam President, I would like Work environment work is a joint responsibility for employers, employees, parties and the state. Following research and building and gathering knowledge is important for developing successful work. Support, advice and rules, together with inspections and sanctions, are needed to ensure that the work is carried out properly. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the government has contributed over 100 million annually to the work environment, unlike the Alliance, which, with the support of SD in its time, cut resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and closed down the Swedish Work Life Institute. In 2006 about 350 inspectors worked at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, in 2015 the figure was down to 240. Last year the work had again increased to 280 inspectors, and additional resources were added this year. Mynak, an authority to follow work-life research, has been created. For the government, the work for a good working environment is a high priority, and rightly so. The committee will continue to have the issue high on the agenda.
i-UL7rEP4tDEVoS7KpRCp1S6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Johansson, for your speech. We really need to deepen the issue of the working environment right now, because it feels like it is very high on the agenda. Many Swedes are also involved in what is happening in our hospitals and health care facilities today, precisely when it comes to protective equipment. I do not think anyone could have predicted the situation that we are in, so I will not put any kind of responsibility on the Social Democrats at this stage. However, I have not heard so much from the ministers now when it comes to special efforts. One could, for example, instruct the Swedish Work Environment Agency or the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work to start to ensure that psychosocial support for the staff works, but also follow different working groups to draw conclusions afterwards on how we can improve for the future and have a better preparedness also in relation to the work environment situation. We have had a situation with regard to the protective masks. The Swedish Work Environment Agency said at first that they were not approved by the EU and therefore could not be used. Then you change your mind. It is extremely important that the Swedish Work Environment Authority understands the seriousness of the situation. I wonder if Anna Johansson can say whether the government will give some assignments to its authorities now to ensure a good working environment already now but also for the future.
i-AxcNfnKi1JVc6eAAhp9WTd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Pethrus, for the question. I am absolutely convinced that the pandemic and the changing social crisis that we are going through right now will raise quite a few questions about how we organise ourselves, how we ensure that society has resources, not only when it is sunny and happy, but also when it blows properly. It has become clear that there are shortcomings in, for example, the availability of medical supplies. Désirée Pethrus' former party leader was out as late as today and raised some doubts about whether it was so wise at one time to privatise pharmacies without ensuring a responsibility for access to medicines. That kind of question will certainly be raised, so I think we will both be involved with life and desire. But right now is probably not the time to evaluate without trying to deal with the situation as well as possible. The government has said on a number of occasions, I would say on a daily basis, that no measures are actually being rejected at this stage. They try to have as broad a grant as possible with a focus on preventing the spread of infection, saving lives and health but also mitigating the consequences for jobs, for companies and for Sweden as a nation. The authorities that work with, for example, the working environment have a mission. They have their instructions and their regulatory letter. If further missions are required, I am convinced that the government will ensure that they come. But for the most part, those who work during this crisis will do what is normally in their area of responsibility, and for the Swedish Work Environment Authority it is about ensuring a good working environment.
i-df564da4f89ac162-698	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I am sure we agree that the efforts now being made by various authorities are very good. My thinking is, however, if it is not already time to start with some of the work environment work to ensure that it works, because it is very difficult today for a safety representative at a hospital, for example, to say: I intend to stop the work. How should a safety representative act in a pandemic situation? It is almost impossible to use the safety representative's ban as a regulatory framework. Therefore, I think it might still be good that the Swedish Work Environment Authority is getting some special assignments now, both to act and to react later. I think we need both: special missions now but also later. That's more the purpose of my question. What I put out on Twitter was precisely about the protective masks that existed but were not allowed to be used. Now the Swedish Work Environment Authority has changed its mind. But you have to understand and listen to the staff's concern that they themselves will be infected. In the past, we have mostly talked about a zero vision of death in the construction industry, but now we also need to focus on health care. I hope that Anna Johansson will take with her ministers that there may already be a need for some specific missions to the authorities.
i-df564da4f89ac162-701	Madam President, I would like Ensuring a good working environment is important, as I said in my speech, in all sectors, every day and all year round. The introduction of a ban is always a very serious procedure. Also in other contexts where it can be about life and health, it should of course be weighed against the staff's working environment. Although this is a very extreme situation, it is a question that safety representatives face, especially in some sectors. I think it goes without saying that the Swedish Work Environment Authority, especially in such a very difficult and strained situation, is doing its utmost to ensure that employers, safety representatives and others receive the necessary support to make correct assessments and safe life and health for both patients and staff without the government having to give an extra assignment. However, if it is necessary, I am convinced that the government is not alien to look at that possibility as well. As I said, the time for evaluation is not now, but there will be such a time as well. I think it is extremely important in this situation that everyone, whether it be government or other organisations or individuals, should find ways to both support each other as much as possible and actually do what is necessary and be as flexible as possible. This presents us with situations in which we have not been tried before, and it naturally places enormous demands on both flexibility and wisdom.
i-df564da4f89ac162-704	Madam President, I would like Of course, in the extraordinary times we are in, as we are doing today, we also need to be able to deal with ordinary matters wherever possible. But this can hardly be done without also reflecting on what this crisis is saying about some underlying problems and strengths in our society. One such lesson, which should have been made clear to more and more people, is that the individual's insecurity or lack of anchoring or confidence in the systems that exist to connect us is and becomes a social problem. If people are under financial pressure to go to work when they are ill, they themselves and many others are affected. When tens of thousands in our country have precarious jobs on an hourly basis and cannot secure one income from one day to another – by the way – a type of employment that has been cheered up by many in this House for many years – we have tens of thousands of individual problems in households around Sweden, but we also have a broader socio-economic problem. The same is seen when unemployment insurance has been eroded, the Employment Service has been defoliated and health care personnel, especially here in the Stockholm area, have long been exposed to various market experiments. These are things that have given rise to anxiety and pressure for many individuals, but they have also made our society more fragile and vulnerable. In recent weeks, we have been able to see the government and its cooperation parties discover some of these problems – better late than never – and act forcefully to deal with them at least temporarily. That's good. But also all those days in the future when we are hopefully not in a global pandemic, we will need strong and flexible security systems in a broad sense, so that we can help each other in this society to achieve more freedom and prosperity. Another general reflection that can be made in these times of crisis is that well-functioning authorities are very important, but at the same time it is far from sufficient. Our society shows itself from its best and strongest side when there are also other organised structures that ensure that laws, regulations, recommendations, practices and peoples' minds, for that matter. For those of us who are particularly interested in labour market issues, this is an old and crucial insight. The Swedish model is designed in this way – a model that we have every reason to be proud of, protect and develop. In the area covered by this report, the working environment and working time, there are laws and rules to protect life and health, which have evolved over time to do this as well as possible. Some of them are dispositive or semidispositive; other rules can therefore be agreed in agreements. This gives a great deal of flexibility. But regardless of whether rules exist in law or agreement, there is a bustling reality out there, where actual compliance with the rules and what goes beyond – what is not prohibited or decreed but can still be good or bad – cannot be managed by any single authority. It needs to be done in the workplaces and, so to speak, sit down in the walls. Fortunately, we have a well thought-out and in many ways well-functioning system for this, as many other countries and international organisations see with some envy. It is the Swedish system of safety representatives, a system based on some basic insights. This concerns, on the one hand, the need to be present at the workplace in order to follow up on health and safety at work, and, on the other hand, the fact that the employer, who has responsibility for the working environment and also with the workers, has a common interest in the functioning of the workplace, and, on the other hand, in certain situations there is a conflict of interest with the workers. The Institute for Safety and Health Protection is a way of dealing with this very complex and sometimes contradictory reality so that we can have systematic work environment management at workplaces that are both small and large, and in both industries and offices. Against this background, it is very surprising, to put it mildly, that there has been a sort of campaign from the right and the outer right against this model. When the employers' organization Confederation of Swedish Enterprise a few years ago aired its desire to tear down this model, most people, I believe, both on the trade union side and within the professions that exist in the field of health and safety at work, understood this as hard to understand and possibly as a result of misplaced search for effect. But now we have also seen these ideas find their way into parliamentary movements from several parties. I hope, of course, for a sobering-up in this area when reality so clearly shows that we need to strengthen work on health and safety at work, not torpedo it. In the near future, there is a good opportunity for the right-wing parties to come to their senses and show the necessary respect for workers' safety and the working environment, because the government has finally come up with the bill that, among others, we in the Left Party have long been calling for. This means that it should be possible for regional safety representatives to also work in companies with collective agreements, even if there does not happen to be a member of the contractual organisation on the company. This plays a major role, not least in sectors where there has been much uncertainty, confusion and fuffiness. I heard previous speakers worried that there have been fatal accidents in the Swedish labour market, and that is where they are most likely to occur. This is then a good thing that one can vote for in Parliament's Chamber instead of just expressing concern. From the Left Party we want to develop the Safety Ombudsman Institute. We have several proposals concerning, among other things, the duration of the safety representative training and the possibility of imposing fines if the safety representative has not been allowed to participate in the risk assessment. This can be read about in our exercise and reservations. Finally, respect for life and health needs to be strong where people go to work to earn a living while creating the wealth and well-being that make us all richer. Sweden therefore needs to strengthen systematic work environment management. This means that the attacks on the safety ombudsman institute must be suppressed, regional safety ombudsmen must be given increased access rights and that the safety ombudsmen in general need to be given more opportunities to do their important work in workplaces all over our fine country.
i-df564da4f89ac162-717	Madam President, I would like Today we are in a health crisis, but at the same time an environmental crisis. These crises are going on in parallel and at different speeds. There are those who paint this crisis as proof that the environmental movement or the policy of the Green Party is devastating. But there is a very big difference that I want to go into today. Madam President, I would like It is true that the climate benefits from us flying less, shopping less and producing less. But there is a big difference between politics and pandemic. Our whole policy is based on avoiding major crises and finding other ways forward. Food and water are something we take for granted today, but we do not know how much we can continue to count on it in the future. The climate crisis brings drought, fires, water scarcity and crop failure. The industrialization of nature brings with it monocultures and reduced resilience, species extinction and a very vulnerable society. The risk of pandemics will only increase with deforestation, with the cruel animal industry that has become the norm and with wildlife trade. Today, man accounts for 36% of the biomass on land, while domesticated animals we eat, such as cows and pigs, account for about 60%. Wild animals have been greatly reduced, and they currently account for 4% of the world's biomass. Madam President, I would like Instead, in the Green Party, we have designed a visionary policy, a future to long for. And one of the lowest hanging fruits is how mankind chooses to use its time, intelligence, creativity and development ability. We are faced with great and important tasks to take on, but today's system does not always release our good forces for the good of society. Instead, we have designed a squirrel wheel that we have to run for, at least 40 hours a week. The lack of time is widespread among those in full - time employment, and the puzzle of life is a constant challenge. For those without employment, the flow of time is an important ingredient in exclusion and ill-health. Madam President, I would like What we have done in recent decades is to pick out productivity gains such as wage increases and profit dividends. There is research that suggests that if we had instead invested in switching the productivity leap into shorter working hours, four hours' working day could have been realized. In the Green Party, we want to reduce working hours gradually to six hours' working day and take up the struggle that all parties in Sweden, except the Moderates, agreed on when working hours were shortened to 40-hour weeks in 1973. In addition to the fact that there is more time to live and engage in what you like and create relationships with loved ones, it carries with it a huge benefit for the environment. Madam President, I would like Research shows a clear correlation between the number of hours worked per person and the ecological footprint of the inhabitants: the more work done, the greater the environmental impact. A 2012 study based on 29 OECD countries between 1970 and 2007 showed that a 10% reduction in working time leads to a 12% reduction in our ecological footprint and our carbon footprint by almost 15%. Madam President, I would like The 40-hour week is not carved in stone. What is normal working hours per week is something we decide together. Today it is normal to have consumed the planet's resources already in May, and it is normal to burn out at a young age. The question is whether what is normal today is really good and desirable. We can actually choose to change the norm and shorten working hours. This would reduce stress and increase the well-being of society while very effectively reducing our ecological footprints.
i-df564da4f89ac162-727	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin with the importance of a job, that is, how much self-sufficiency is a person's freedom. If you don't have a job or self-sufficiency, you're not free. We see it in policy area by policy area. It must be that everyone has the right to be safe at their place of work. It cannot be that people need to get hurt in different ways at their workplace. For this reason, Madam President, in motion 2748, for those who feel obliged to read afterwards, we have put forward proposals on stronger prevention, on whistleblower functions, on work for an improved working environment, on ensuring that people do not get hurt and on combating stress and mental illness. This is something that is particularly relevant now in coronatides when perhaps especially the individuals – the brave people – who work day and night in our care probably have a lot of anxiety and can definitely experience stress and mental illness. We in the Liberals have put forward a lot of proposals on this. Madam President, I would like I would like to dwell on our Amendment No 10, which I would like to support. They're about the safety officers. We in the Liberals want the system of safety representatives to be modernised. The government wants to broaden the system of regional safety representatives. We think this is a bit strange. First of all, you have to look at and investigate how the system works today. We mean that you can't just broaden a system anyway before you evaluate how it works. The government wants to impose more controls on safety representatives in workplaces instead of allowing those who work and are actually in workplaces to decide who should be the safety representative. I think it's strange. If the right of those who work is to be safeguarded, it should also be ensured that the safety representative is established and that the safety representative in a workplace understands what it is for a workplace, understands what applies there and understands which working conditions are relevant to review and relate to. Then we should want a system whereby workers can choose their own safety representatives rather than broaden a system where the agents come from outside and carry out checks at workplaces where there are already collective agreements. Madam President, I would like If you want to modernise the system of safety representatives and ensure that it develops better than what will be discussed later in the spring, which the Liberals will come back to and, of course, follow up with even more policy when the government proposal is discussed, you should vote on our reservation No 10, to modernise the system. People have to choose for themselves. We cannot have a system in which controls are imposed from outside in the way proposed.
i-df564da4f89ac162-733	Madam President, I would like It is often a little difficult in debates on labour market issues with members of the Liberals because we do not really know whether what is commonly referred to as factual information is what is necessary or whether it is a political line to take. What Mr Forssell describes indicates that he has somehow turned the actual situation on the labour market upside down and what his own proposal is about. The safety representatives are chosen by those in the labour market. That is the very point of having a safety representative, which I talked about for a long time in my speech. They thus have safety representatives elected by the local safety organisation, and then they have certain rights and opportunities. Then there is what is called regional safety representatives, and their role is to be in place, for two reasons: firstly, to be able to be involved and, above all, to assist in the construction of local protection committees where they do not exist; and secondly, to be able to ensure that some of the protection measures to which workers are entitled can be met at the workplace, even where local protection committees do not exist. It is a kind of backup and help that the type of people that Joar Forssell calls for can be found on the site. The Liberals, like the Swedish Democrats among others, have proposed that the system be removed or fundamentally amended. This is regrettable, and I hope that Joar Forssell will also be able to regret this in due course.
i-df564da4f89ac162-737	Madam President, I would like I will not regret that. We in the Liberals want as much power as possible to lie with the individual. The collective left – not only Ali Esbati – wants power to be concentrated with others as usual. This proposal, which will come back in the spring and which our two parties will be debating again in some form, not only seeks to broaden a system that is not properly investigated and evaluated, but also wants to increase access to workplaces where collective agreements apply, even if those who work there themselves have chosen not to join the union. To me, that sounds absurd. Of course, each one must have his own choice if he wants to be in the union and who represents himself and his interests. The left n seems for identity political or other reasons to constantly believe that someone else should be able to represent you than the one you have chosen. This is bizarre. A regional safety representative cannot come from outside and represent someone's interest simply because he happens to be a person who works and receives pay. On the contrary, everyone must be allowed to choose whether to be in the union, whether to choose a safety representative and what safety representative it should be in that case. We're not going to move power and concentrate it anywhere but the individual. The left and the collected left land time and again in the same old track. I think you should back up and evaluate the system before you go forward with new reinforcements and extensions.
i-df564da4f89ac162-741	Madam President, I would like I note that Joar Forssell is trying to conceal his lack of commitment to people's health in the workplace, but also a lack of knowledge of how it actually works in the Swedish labour market by inciting himself to the pulpit. It worked pretty bad, I think. Maybe now it's not my role to evaluate it. I and many others do not believe that workers will gain more power and influence if there is a risk of accidents at work or if they are in a workplace where there is no work environment work. It is usually the opposite, i.e. that you get less power and less influence in such situations. Regional safety representatives are there to be able to be on site and help build local protection work with those in the workplace. They should also be able to help secure some rights for workers where such protection committees do not yet exist. The concrete workplaces where you are covered by a collective agreement but where there are no members are normally workplaces where there are many foreign workers. It may be people who, for good reason or just because of misunderstandings, do not dare to join a trade union. These people should be protected from getting a better working environment, says Joar Forssell and the Liberals. This is the upside-down world view on which the Liberals sit, and unfortunately it infects itself with the work of the government. Now, however, the government has put forward this proposal, and we will be in favour of it.
i-df564da4f89ac162-746	Madam President, I would like It is absurd for Ali Esbati to take a line in this debate without having read our motion on the working environment and to strengthen the role of the worker in the labour market. We have proposals to strengthen the individual who works, to strengthen the right not to harm the labour market and to strengthen the right to mental and physical well-being when working in the Swedish labour market. The dividing line in the debate, Madam President, is whether you think that everyone should be allowed to decide for himself or that Ali Esbati and his left-wing friends in this House should decide who should come from outside through a system that is not sufficiently investigated. They want to broaden this in workplaces where collective agreements exist and work as the Swedish labour market should work but where they have chosen not to join the union. There you should be exposed to someone coming from outside and start dictating, even though you yourself have not chosen this. Madam President, I would like As usual, the Left believes that they can sit on high horses and represent people instead of people being allowed to choose who should be their safety representative so that they get a reasonable anchor in their own workplace. It is not, Madam President, the Left Party that is on the workers' side, but the Liberals do. We believe that each person should be allowed to decide over his or her own life, choose which job he or she takes, choose which associations he or she is involved in and choose who represents him or her as a safety representative. That's not what the Left Party is supposed to do. Madam President, I would like The Left Party also makes a bizarre accusation that the Liberals have joined forces with the Swedish Democrats. Perhaps the Swedish Democrats intend to vote on the Liberals' proposal, what do I know? What is a fact, however, in Swedish labour market policy is that the entire Left joins forces with the Swedish Democrats and tries to shut out foreign labour. This is done, for example, through the Posting of Workers Directive.
