i-GayvRj9LjdrLVswWkU4nZ2	Madam President, I would like The House today has to deal with the report Feedback in reporting on suspected money laundering and terrorist financing and certain other issues. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Money laundering is a very serious crime. Often it is committed to conceal other criminal activities. Money laundering is closely linked to tax offences, to illegal markets and to activities that exploit people, harm our economy, undermine our welfare systems and undermine society's trust and cohesion. Like other crimes, there is no lack of imagination among criminals. Society must constantly work to catch up, access, prosecute and prevent, as has been done and done. It is therefore gratifying that there is a united committee behind the report here today. It is a strength that we can join forces in the fight against money laundering. The present proposal concerns clarification in the Money Laundering Act. It is proposed that, where possible, the financial police should provide appropriate feedback to operators on the effectiveness and follow-up of reports on suspected money laundering and terrorist financing. It is an important step in further enhancing awareness and disseminating knowledge among companies covered by the Money Laundering Act. The European Commission has questioned whether the Fourth Money Laundering Directive has been fully implemented in Swedish law. Therefore, the definitions of important public function and competent decision-makers are also clarified. In addition, it is clarified that the entity providing life insurance shall identify the acquirer and the beneficial owner and verify their identity. In recent years, the Riksdag and the Government have taken important steps to strengthen the work against money laundering. In 2017, a new Money Laundering Act was adopted. The police have set up a new coordination function. Finansinspektionen has received SEK 80 million in increased resources to, among other things, strengthen banking supervision and the fight against money laundering. In the budget proposal for 2020, funds for Finansinspektionen increased by 10 million and the county boards by 12 million in order to further improve their supervision. The list can be made long. Madam President, I would like Stopping money laundering requires dedicated and sustained work. With this proposal, we are now taking further steps in this work.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-7	Madam President, I would like Serious violence has reached historically high levels in Sweden. What we call shootings, even though it is actually murder or attempted murder and bombing, has become so commonplace that there is sometimes only one item in the newspapers. According to the Crime Prevention Council 257 blasts occurred in 2019. It's almost five blasts a week. The police need to be significantly strengthened in order to be able to fight gangs and investigate crime. But of course, Madam President, it is not possible to look at the police individually. The whole chain of justice must be taken into account. When investments are made on the police, it will have effects for the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Courts and the Prison Service. In order not to create bottlenecks, the governance of the authorities needs to be coherent and holistic, both in order to achieve effective and legally secure prosecution, and in order to strengthen the recidivism work carried out by the Prison Service, but above all to ensure that all victims of crime are restored. The overall capacity of the judiciary to stop crime must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Government's letter regarding the Swedish National Audit Office's review report Governance of the justice chain. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in its review that there are certainly work processes that create the conditions for a court-spoken perspective, but also notes that there are built-in risks that impair the conditions for a court-spoken perspective. One area of risk mentioned is the internal organisation and division of responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice, which is likely to lead to a limited treatment of the legal chain. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that the court-spoken perspective is absent in regulatory letters and that target formulations primarily concern individual authorities, which means that business plans tend to become close to the authorities. The Swedish National Audit Office also writes that in terms of the allocation of resources between and within ministries, little consideration is given to the legal chain. Madam President, I would like This sounds bureaucratic, but in practice the risks described in the audit are risks that can create bottlenecks between the justice chain authorities and thus impair the overall capacity to stop crime. 257 blasts, 334 shootings, an increase in rapes and an increase in youth robbery by as much as 30% are – to put it mildly, Madam President – totally unacceptable. And this is just a sample of the statistics for 2019. It just can't go on like this. If we are to succeed in reversing developments, the government's governance of the justice chain's authorities must be characterised by a long-term perspective and a holistic perspective. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-13	Madam President, I would like Today we have to decide on the Swedish National Audit Office's review of how far the government controls the justice chain and the law enforcement authorities. It is about the government, the Government Office, the police, prosecutors, the courts and the Prison Service. Why, then, is this important? Yes, of course, because this is a coherent chain. What can happen if it doesn't work? Of course, you can't just bet on one end of the legal chain. You can't just bet on more cops and not take any more action. Then it can lead to a stop in courts, long detention periods or overcrowded prisons. When efforts are made on the police, this will have consequences for the other authorities in the legal chain. The activities are interrelated and the different authorities are influenced by each other's work. In order not to create bottlenecks, the governance of the authorities must be coherent and have a holistic approach. This may seem to be a somewhat rough description of the event. Of course, there are several processes within the Government Office and within the authorities for this to work. These processes may seem small, but they are very important, as the National Audit Office points out. Madam President, I would like The Government Office and its employees shall of course make regular reconciliations in the work to ensure that the overall perspective of the legal chain is guaranteed. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that in many cases it is on individual employees, and the procedures are flawed in when and why reconciliations should be made. It is also clear from the Swedish National Audit Office's report that the Government Office and the authorities lack principles for assessing the need for reconciliation with other administrators, budget coordinators and analysis functions. It risks leading to inconsistency and unpredictability because responsibility often falls to individual administrators, and we cannot do so. The government also admits shortcomings in the documentation of how the work is carried out. The Center Party believes that the government needs to clarify and tighten up procedures and guidelines for how to meet the need for reconciliation and follow-up of the overall perspective in the justice chain. We believe that such a measure is necessary to ensure continuity and focus in the governance of the justice chain. What can be the consequences if there are no clear guidelines when reconciliations and analyses are to be made for what to treat? Then the court-spoken perspective will be ironed on the foot in favour of individual focus issues. This can lead to inefficiency. Madam President, I would like In a larger perspective, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that steering documents for different authorities only have a limited overall perspective when it comes to the legal chain. The court-spoken perspective is not very present, but goal formulations and more get what you can call an authority-close direction. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in the report that the links to the justice chain perspective have decreased in recent years both in special assignments to the authorities and in regulatory letters. In its response, the Government refers to other well-founded measures taken with the same purpose, such as evaluation and forecasting assignments to Statskontoret and the Swedish Crime Prevention Council. However, regulatory letters, I believe, play such a central role in the governance of the authorities that they should be further clarified with a clear focus on coordination within the justice chain. The Center Party therefore believes that the government urgently needs to address the alleged lack of regulation letters. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-24	Madam President, I would like A prerequisite for the success of the fight against crime is the success of judicial actors in the so-called justice chain with their main tasks of investigating crimes, arresting suspects and sentencing those responsible. If the governance, coordination and allocation of resources do not work from police and prosecutors to courts and the Prison Service, work against crime in society will be less effective with increased insecurity as a result. As the police are now expanding, the prosecutors need to prosecute more and the courts need to deal with more cases, and the correctional services are getting more people to lock up. It is therefore important that the various activities in the chain be adequately resourced. The government has been following the KD-M budget's escalator as we prepared it last year. This means that the police will receive significant contributions in 2020 and 2021. But in 2022 it seems to be stopped. Unfortunately, the government's budget is insufficient for the Prosecution Authority and the courts. But efficiency is not just about the amount of money. It is about priorities, distribution and governance. Organised crime must be met by an even better organised judicial system. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, there is an awareness of the need for a chain perspective within the Ministry of Justice and the relevant authorities, but the governance does not take sufficient account of the consequences and efficiency of the whole legal chain. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that the Ministry of Justice's internal division of responsibilities and procedures entail inherent risks for reduced overall perspective and collaboration. It is further noted that the government and authorities' overall governance documents are partly characterised by a chain of thought but that target formulations and follow-up links to a limited extent the various activities within the legal chain. Nor has the chain perspective been prominent in the distribution of resources between and within the authorities. I quote from the Swedish National Audit Office's own summary: ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that there is a need for comprehensive follow-up and analysis of the legal chain in both the budget work and in the ongoing work to ensure governance towards an effective legal chain. Madam President, I would like I will quote the Swedish National Audit Office again: In conclusion, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Government to clarify its governance with a more long-term focus on justice, to ensure access to follow-up and analysis and to increase the overall perspective in contact with the relevant authorities. In its letter in response to the report from the Swedish National Audit Office, the Government welcomes the review as a valuable basis for further work. The government fully agrees with the recommendation for an increased overall perspective in its contacts with the other authorities, but only partially agrees with the other recommendations. In the letter, the Government then lists a wide range of missions and actions that have been distributed, implemented or ongoing. Much of what is described is relevant and reasonable, but it still becomes unclear. The government seems a little too pleased. In conclusion, the committee's position states that it welcomes the measures taken by the government and intends to take, and assumes that the government will continue to give priority to this issue. ..................................................... 中 Not enough a limited amount, a partial amount and a partial amount are words that are lingering after reading the report. If we want to defeat crime, we cannot be half-hearted. Once again, organised crime must be met by an even better organised judicial system! Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats do not feel confident that, as the report says, it is just a starting point, that the government continues to give priority to this issue. We cannot simply assume that this is the case. The mission needs to be much clearer. We believe that the Government needs to clarify and tighten up its procedures and guidelines on how to meet the need for reconciliation and follow-up of the overall perspective in the justice chain. I therefore request the approval of reservation No 1.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-38	Madam President, I would like The justice system is on everyone's lips these days, unfortunately one must say. We now have to deal with an important report on the so-called justice chain. It's a concept that I think is a little sloppy. For example, the Court of Justice is often involved in this. It's not part of a chain. It is a completely independent authority of its own. On the other hand, it is important that other entities that are clearer law enforcement, such as the police, prosecutors and highly penitentiary services, cooperate effectively and that we from here, to the extent that we control the government, ensure that the money and resources are used very effectively. The state of law is so important. It is a foundation of the whole liberal idea that people should be given the right and be able to demand the right. Security should apply to everyone and not just those who are strong. We now have a strong structure of the judiciary, not least as a result of the January agreement that guides the budget work, where we will see perhaps 5, 6 or 7 billion more during the term of office in order to strengthen the judiciary. Then it's important that we hold on to the money. We'll make sure we get – excuse me – the right bang for the money. By this I mean, of course, that we should work as efficiently as possible. It's necessary. We know what a vulnerable situation we are in. We have a serious crime which is growing and which is more ruthless. Explosives and shootings go up high. We see young people who are going terribly badly, and then I'm talking both about victims and about perpetrators. We are talking about children who are seriously disturbed and who have long since gone to hell when we talk about the juvenile robbery. When you listen to the chief police officer, as many in the committee have done today, you hear that the stories from the field are quite special. They're 12- and 13-year-old kids who think of themselves as gangsters. In the wake of the major initiative Rimfrost against organised crime, the perpetrators are eight years old and victims are seven years old. Eight and seven years – you wonder where your parents are. What happened at school? What's going on in social services? All of this makes it a very serious situation. Moreover, we can add internationalisation, which means that in a borderless Europe and in a globalised era we must work even more effectively. That is why the report is important, and the criticism is correct. It is serious that it needs to be established. The Liberals have participated. Madam President, I would like to express my support for this reservation. We think this should be taken seriously. What is said is that we are moving to resources and new tools for past interventions. We are tightening up the penalties, and we are changing the regulatory framework not least when it comes to young people. We need to do even more to make it sooner and clearer. It's leadership that needs to be done. Criticism is quite extensive against the Ministry of Justice and thus the government. This is a lack of leadership. There is a lack of guiding principles on how subordinate officials in the department should act. So there are no guiding principles! Apparently, people have to walk around the Justice Department asking, "What am I supposed to do?" They don't know that. That's for the leadership to decide. This is the first serious criticism. The government must act on it, because citizens' tax money is being wasted. The second criticism is that the Swedish National Audit Office is concerned that the unclear internal organisation means that you do not come up with products on time, but they come out of time. It is a criticism that we often make in this House, not least from the liberal side. It's going too slow. Things are being prepared and prepared. When it comes to criticism, you can read what the Swedish National Audit Office has written about why it looks like this: There are no guiding principles, and there is a lack of leadership. It cannot be interpreted in any other way, although you wrap it into a little consulting Swedish. Then it is a question of the internal organisation failing. It is very serious, Madam President. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-49	Madam President, I would like Sweden is basically a safe country, but we have problems that must be met with strength. That is why we have tightened up the laws to combat terrorism, to crack organised crime and to bring men's violence against women to an end. We have decided in this House about fifty or so penalties and, among other things, tightened the penalty for serious weapons offences, which has fivefold multiplied the number of people detained on such suspicions. We have also tightened the penalties for, among other things, aggravated robbery, for serious and particularly serious assault and for the most serious drug offences. We have increased the number of detention centres, introduced a new sexual crime law based on consent and not least made historical efforts on the police. The Agency is now allocated the largest ever increase in funding with a clear objective: to grow with 10,000 police officers by 2024. At the turn of 2019 there were over 31 000 employees in the agency – the highest figure ever on the total as well as the number of police officers and the number of civilian employees. This is an increase of almost 3,500 employees since December 2015. All these are important elements of a chain of justice and a strong judicial system. Madam President, I would like Concerns about crime and the progress of criminals affect our entire society, our working life, our confidence in the judicial system and our trust in people. Therefore, society must react clearly to violations of the law. Punishment shall be severe and the risk of detection shall be high. In order to combat crime and create security, it is important to have a well-functioning and powerful judicial authority and a chain of law that holds together. The report we are debating and handling today concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the governance of this legal chain. I think it is important to take a holistic approach to issues relating to the judicial authorities because everything is so clearly connected, and I have therefore taken note of the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions with great interest. What happens at the beginning of the legal chain, when a crime is reported, can have an impact all the way up to the enforcement of the criminal justice system. It requires an understanding that the authorities in the justice chain are part of a wider whole, and it requires analysis of what it means for the activities and resources of the authorities. Like the committee, I note that the Government has taken good note of the recommendations of the National Audit Office and in its letter to the Riksdag clearly shows how it is working to further develop the governance of the authorities in the legal chain, digitise the judiciary and develop the long-term planning of the relevant authorities. This is an incredibly important job that the Riksdag should of course follow over time. It is also interesting to find out how the government has also commissioned the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish National Courts Authority, the Swedish Criminal Service and the Swedish Crime Prevention Council in 2019 to assess future operational volumes in the legal chain. It will examine how the different parts interact and how to create the foresight and capacity we need so that bottlenecks are not created. As policy moves forward on legislation and our police become more effective, get stronger tools and arrest more criminals, this also needs to work in all subsequent stages. I think that the government in the letter to Parliament shows how to work with the questions in a good way. I therefore see no reason why the Parliament should make any announcement on the matter and propose that the Parliament add the letter to the file.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-60	Madam President, I would like In crisis situations, it is important that countries join forces so that, in the event of terrorism and other kinds of threats, we can best combat violent forces. It is therefore good that it is made clear that Swedish intervention teams should be able to receive assistance from Norway with equipment and expertise. However, extending cross-border cooperation must not weaken the Swedish rule of law. It is therefore important to consider what powers Norwegian officials should have when they are in Sweden. What should the use of service weapons really look like? There, the Left Party has doubts as to whether foreign officials should have the same powers as the Swedish police. If the exercise of Swedish public authority is carried out by a foreign state, Swedish citizens must be able to expect an equivalent degree of legal certainty and quality as if the task was carried out by the national authority. The proposed exercise of public authority is not just any form of authority but is part of the state's core business and is part of the state's monopoly of violence. Outsource to foreign officials the use of deadly violence against Swedish citizens should be done with vigilance. Madam President, I would like I listened to Ekott's Saturday interview with the Bar Association's Secretary General Edwall Insulander this weekend. There were many wise thoughts expressed in the interview, and what I particularly took on was to see legislative proposals as a whole, not each one separately. This is precisely what we are going to do in the Swedish parliament: see the whole of the society that we shape through legislation. Sure, more security cameras can feel good, but what happens to personal privacy? Of course, longer sentences may feel good, but what happens to our view of crime? Secret coercive measures can feel good, but what happens when the state starts to make its own Trojans? This issue of interaction between countries in crisis situations should also be seen in a broader perspective. Who checks that the police are doing their job? How can we guarantee that weapons are not used in the wrong way? What limits do we set for the use of weapons by foreign officials? That is why we need a regulatory framework and a broader perspective. The Bar Association writes in its referral that legal certainty and quality are at risk of deteriorating if Norwegian officials are not under the direct supervision of JK and JO. It is therefore not enough for foreign officials to be under the authority of the Police Authority and for the Police Authority to be examined; the Left Party believes that foreign officials should also be able to be included in the same review. We therefore want to strengthen supervision and urge that JO and JK be able to have the same supervision of foreign authority in Sweden. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-68	Madam President, I would like Members! Today we have a decision to make that is the logical consequence of the agreement that was signed already in September 2018. It will now be ratified here in our Parliament. It will be a logical end in a long line today very well-functioning collaborations between the brothers or sister countries Norway and Sweden. It is a cooperation that I believe we will see deepened in the future, a cooperation that in a more mobile world with the rapid challenges facing society is necessary. We see such a development on the defence side. We also see it on the police side. That makes perfect sense. Historically, we have long traditions. Our national weapon, which is carved here on the Parliament's pulpit, is filled with symbols that remind us of the Swedish-Norwegian cooperation. The three crowns are of course actually from Magnus Eriksson, who had Sweden and Norway, which he inherited from his mother, and Skåne – also Skåne was considered a kingdom at the time. But it is therefore both logical and a historical fact that we have very good cooperation between the countries. It is our longest land border, and Norway is our largest trading partner. In fact, there are also more commuters between Sweden and Norway than there are in the Öresund region between Sweden and Denmark. Unfortunately, however, we have also experienced events in our neighbourhood where we could have helped each other. Ut øya is one such example, where a fast response time, specialists in crisis preparedness and intervention groups could have made a difference. We have had events on our own land where it is obvious that we Nordic comrades hooks arm if we are exposed. That is also the agreement we have with the European Union. Linda raised some very adequate reasoning about supervision. Of course, we should not take those issues lightly. However, we believe in the report that the ability of the JK and the JO to exercise supervision has to do with the fact that it is the Authority itself that is to be examined. If an individual policeman from foreign power does things that fall under criminal liability, it is another matter, but it is the Police Authority that commands and is responsible for the foreign officials who act on Swedish soil. I believe that this is enough to meet the challenges of legal certainty and supervision. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-73	Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation, together with our membership of the European Union, is our most important platform for cooperation with other states. Not least Norway is very close to us in the areas of trade, labour market, language and culture. Norway is also a reference point for us in Sweden on many issues. This is true not only in the eternal wavering of ski tracks, but also in how we can draw up effective legislation to combat terrorism. When a state is subjected to a terrorist attack, it means a huge strain on the whole of society for which police resources are not fully adapted. There may therefore be a need for police support from other states in the context of serious crises. This case is about creating opportunities for Sweden and Norway to provide mutual assistance in crisis situations with the police's special intervention teams. The agreement with Norway is in line with the Prüm Council Decision and the Atlas Council Decision, which allows for equivalent assistance within the European Union. Madam President, I would like Crisis situations are for Sweden about acts that can constitute terrorist offences, while the Norwegian Government can request support in slightly more situations. It is now natural that the same opportunities for mutual cooperation that already exist within the EU should also be put in place with our closest neighbour.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-76	Madam President, I would like What we are debating now is about drama and serious things, about crisis situations. Nevertheless, the debate is most unsettling. I guess we'll apologize to our audience in the gallery. It won't be any more exciting than this. The reason is really very good: we agree that this is important. On Tuesday we received a nice visit from the Norwegian Minister of Justice, Norway's ambassador, the Head of the National Police and the Police Commissioner in Oslo and others. We held talks with our Norwegian colleagues on current challenges such as organised crime, young offenders, digitalisation and security threats in a globalised world. For those of us who attended the meeting, it became clear both how much we have in common and how much we have to learn from each other. The Norwegians have been faster out of the pits than we have in terms of legislation to face the threat of terrorism. In Sweden we have expensive experiences of shootings, explosions and gang crime. I don't think anyone in the room asked if we should cooperate with Norway. Rather, what hung in the air were questions and thoughts of the type: When do we take the next step? What else can we do? What meetings should be booked? Developed police cooperation with Norway is a matter of course in preventing and preventing crime. Even more obviously, it should be to cooperate closely and come to each other's aid in crisis situations. Madam President, I would like According to the Christian Democrats, the agreement now submitted to Parliament for approval and the legislative changes that follow as a consequence of this agreement constitute a good basis for continued and deeper cooperation with our good neighbours in the west. We welcome the agreement and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-83	Madam President, I would like For us Liberals, it is obvious that Sweden will cooperate most and most comprehensively with the countries closest to us. It is, in this case, unsurprisingly our neighbours to the west, Norway. We welcome the fact that we are deepening police cooperation within the framework of EU cooperation as well. But it is important that we take this step. It will show that cooperation leads to more efficiency, more security and reduced crime. It is important to remember that Nordic cooperation is unique and in many ways special. I would like to emphasise that the cooperation we have with our closest Nordic neighbour in the east, Finland, is also extensive. There are numerous joint police efforts, not least in the area around Haparanda-Tornio, which is important in order to increase the security of the border country. The cooperation between Sweden and Norway is also special. Between the metropolitan regions of Oslo and Stockholm, where the Riksdag is located, there is an important route through Mälardalen, where you must be prepared to make great efforts. I believe that cooperation can be further developed. There is a discussion going on; Norway has too many trained police officers and cannot hire them all. There are therefore hundreds of police officers in Norway who do not work in the police force. If we develop the cooperation, they would very well, with a shorter supplementary education, be able to work in Sweden. They could strengthen the Swedish police when we have set aside resources to hire more police officers, not least in the western parts where Sweden and Norway are so integrated. Madam President, I would like It is easy for a liberal to welcome increased cooperation between Sweden and Norway for the reduction of crime and increased security in that part of Sweden, for example Värmland and along the border. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-89	Madam President, I would like I congratulate you on the high pace of this House's debates today. I note that the staffing of the Armed Forces is much slower. We Moderates are of course behind all our reservations, but for time winning we only ask for reservation 1. There is today a broad consensus in Swedish politics that defence capabilities need to be strengthened. The new security situation requires a rapid shift from the focus on international efforts to national defence. It's a pretty big change that takes time. We think it's taking too long. The transition requires major investments in materials, infrastructure and education in order to set up tomorrow's war units. However, we do not know how much effort is needed to carry out this change of unit. The defence committee completed its work more than six months ago, but we still do not know how much the cost of implementing what has been agreed. Madam President, I would like However, there is a great deal of agreement that the volumes in the defence need to increase. Over the next three to four years, it is expected that the training volumes for conscripts will double from today's 4 000 target up to 8 000 conscripts per year. But this is where the problems begin. The 4,000 conscripts scheduled for training last year were not trained. The same applies to the year before. And the conscripts who are to be trained during this year were already being signed up last year. So the shift we have in the number of conscripts, which is to increase gradually to 8 000, is far behind. Although efforts are being made to increase the numbering, it will not help in the near future. The 5,000 women and men to be trained in military service during the training period 2020 – 2021 have already signed up. Thus it will also fail to reach 5 000 conscription graduates during the next training period. The recruitment authority says that without increased resources it cannot meet the increased demands. The agency also says that the establishment of a new place of employment is expected to take about two years until it is fully operational. In other words, it would mean another period in which we are unable to train the conscripts that are needed. Last week, or possibly last week, the Minister of Defence visited the Swedish Defence Agency in Karlstad. I therefore assume that the Minister for Defence is well aware of the conditions and conditions that exist. According to the regulatory letter, the recruitment authority of the Swedish Defence Agency has been given the task of preparing for increased volumes. The agency has also done its job. New premises have been acquired and have been prepared to increase the number of mönstrande and adopt them at another place of recruitment. What's missing is the government's announcement. That is why I have to ask the representatives of the government parties sitting in this House: why have you not given notice to increase the number of them? Although the number of conscripts and conscripts would increase, it is possible that it would not be enough to create the defence we want. Many officers are missing today. In addition, the number of officers leaving the Swedish Armed Forces is greater than the number of officers that are added. The measures taken by the defence – many are quite good and at least kind – have not produced the desired results either. These measures have succeeded in recruiting or attracting far below 100 officers back to the Swedish Armed Forces. Therefore, I have to ask the government parties: why is nothing done about it? I also note that only S is represented in this debate by the government parties. But it is not up to me to answer why. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I must note that in a situation where the Swedish Armed Forces should be in a rapidly expanding phase, the number of permanent soldiers is reduced. The number of officers is also reduced, as there are more who leave than come to. Nor are the targets for the number of conscripts being trained being reached, either last year, this year or the coming year. It can only be described as a failure. It is also a question of anyone who tries and wants something being accused. But the question is, is the government really trying? It is rather thin among the measures that have been taken. The committee has even announced to the government on various occasions that it needs to do something. This concerns, among other things, the issue of training premiums. The committee's announcement indicated that these should be introduced. The government's measure was that the soldiers who had paid training time were not paid for their training time. The salary was postponed until after the training and called it a premium instead of a salary. In this way, the committee's announcement on training premiums was considered to have been met. But, Madam President, postponing wages is not a premium. Furthermore, the will of the Ministry of Defence is too weak. There is no will to solve these problems. I suspect that it may even be the case that staff shortages are seen as a budget regulator. The money that is missing for things you want to do can be saved by not having so many employees and not having so many soldiers in places where they man the war units. You'll have to correct me if I'm wrong. Madam President, I would like I was also going to say something short about veterans, but I know that Allan Widman will talk after me. He has written an excellent motion on this, which we support. I shall not, therefore, extend the debate, but I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 1.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-105	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4, although I naturally support all our proposals. Today, we are debating without comparison the most important resource of the Swedish Armed Forces, that is, the personnel of the Swedish Armed Forces. During the dark years when the defense was seen as a special interest and the defence funds were often used as budget governor for other spending areas in the state budget, the defence's personnel policy also raged. Thankfully, the core of military defence, military service, is restored. Now it just needs to be scaled up from today's low levels to meet the needs of the future. In order to do this, not only do more conscripts need to be called to appointment and service, but we also need more officers, more officers. Here we see Swedish democrats, Madam President, a problem. In order to meet the increased need for staff and to stimulate local recruitment, we propose that all young women and men should be able to be called upon to participate. In order to stimulate local recruitment, we suggest that the Recruitment Authority should be able to open temporary recruitment offices, for example in Luleå or on Gotland. We also believe that for the army's ability to meet its recruitment needs of future officers, more training regiments are established in accordance with the proposals that the preparation has recently put forward. Without training regiments, there will be no officers. Unfortunately, we see worrying signs that in some cases this may be postponed or shriveled. According to the preparation, the 2025 must be trained 8 000 conscripts, which is why about 9 000 should be called to military service, since the loss in the past is about 10 per cent. In order to cope with these volumes, it is our firm belief that new regiments should be established at the rate and extent specified by the preparation, nothing else. Madam President, I would like We also believe that permanent staff, so-called GSS-K, should be offered permanent employment and further training. There are certain types of units where GSS-K is more suitable than conscripts and therefore the form of employment should be maintained. On the other hand, part-time workers should be phased out and replaced by conscripts. This will, of course, take a while, and a phasing-out process is needed as and when. We also believe that an extended military training programme will bring up a third military university for officers. It should be proposed in Norrland.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-113	Madam President, I would like Swedish defence policy is at a very interesting and important stage in the analysis work ahead of negotiations on the forthcoming orientation decision for the next defence-oriented period. That is why this debate on staff issues is extremely urgent. There are many aspects in this area that are important to follow for future negotiations and the implementation of future decisions. The Defence Committee's report "Värnkraft" has clearly indicated how the focus should be designed. It's about a shift with a focus on great growth, not least on ground fighting forces but also on expanding the organization so that there will be more active people within our war organization. This is a clear priority and marking of how we together look at how to meet the world situation. There is also an urgent strengthening of the economy for the next five years as set out in the agreement in 2019. It will be 5 billion extra per year in the coming years up to 2025. The challenges are great. There is still much to discuss and resolve. The prerequisite for this to succeed is that we have a functioning staff supply and that it exists over time. It needs to be able to grow over time so that you can gradually expand the organization. This requires access to officers and specialists at various levels throughout the Swedish Armed Forces. Right now there is a big question mark. There is a great lack of officers in planning in the long term. It is about what previous recruitments have looked like but also that many choose to terminate their employment within the Swedish Armed Forces. This applies not least to younger officers who, at their request, have left the profession. Here we come to the perspective that you need to have a defence personnel policy that encourages people to remain, be educated and develop within the Swedish Armed Forces. Every day in this profession is valuable for the long-term work. It takes time to get an officer's corps that has the ability and that can enable us to switch up other parts of the Swedish Armed Forces. This is an extremely central area. We've heard in the past that more people quit than start. We have also seen reports that half of the officers in the Swedish Armed Forces are expected to have reached retirement age before 2030, i.e. before the end of the next next period of defence. It shows how big the challenges are. The availability of officers is therefore something I would like to begin by highlighting. Focus on this must be central to how we are going to implement future defence-oriented decisions. Madam President, I would like It is important that there are incentives and development opportunities for individuals within the Swedish Armed Forces so that they remain in fairly tough competition in the labour market. It is compared if there are other tasks outside the Swedish Armed Forces that feel more attractive. Some come to this conclusion. An important and central issue to keep a constant focus on in the coming years is, among other things, the general salary situation. It should be attractive to stay and develop and also be able to have different career opportunities within the Swedish Armed Forces. We cannot afford to lose skilled personnel, and in order to scale up our common defence, we also need to recruit competent personnel who have left the defence. One key is also to ensure that before 2025 we train 8 000 conscripts. As we have discussed in the Defence Committee, this can also provide an important return to the Home Guard. One of the challenges for the continued work is to have an increased anchoring and staffing on a voluntary basis in all battalions of the Home Guard around the country. Here we have demographic challenges. How we work also differs depending on where in Sweden we are. This must be taken very seriously politically but also in various decisions within the authorities. The Home Guard strengthens total defence and peoples' support, and on the basis of voluntary activity, we also find many driving forces that contribute to strengthening capabilities. It is also appropriate to consider some form of more flexible pension solutions when specialist knowledge and functions need to be filled in various officers' positions. There may be a need to review this at the present time. Madam President, I would like It all starts today with the patterning. But even before the ceremony, information is needed around society aimed at younger generations so that they know what the Swedish Armed Forces' mission is, what expectations there are and what opportunities there are to enter into the activities of the Swedish Armed Forces and NGOs. There, information at school and the link to education is an important prerequisite. The recruitment authority must be given the necessary conditions to change recruitment for the next defence decision. It takes at least two years to prepare this work. There is a limitation in today's organisation, where each recruitment office is able to recruit to a certain number of positions. It is also recruited not only to the Swedish Armed Forces but also, for example, to the Swedish Police Authority. So there are many needs that need to be met. In the latest regulatory letter, the Recruiting Authority has this year been commissioned to start planning for increased trial capacity. We negotiated this with the government, and it is important. It is also important to focus on this issue in the future so that it becomes a reality. We need at least a third office, and we also need to see how it hits long-term and geographical. Madam President, I would like We also want to highlight the importance of a developed veteran policy and that we are constantly working for the Swedish Armed Forces to be a good employer both before and during and after a military operation. There is much there that we will come back to. I would like to call for the approval of reservation 10 and stress the importance of the negotiations ahead of the decisive orientation decision for the rest of the 2020s. We must strive to get the most out of each invested krona and also think about how the supply of skills in this context will help to strengthen our overall defence capabilities.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-131	Madam President, I would like We discuss certain questions about the Armed Forces' personnel. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8 under paragraph 7, which we have together with the Liberals and the Moderates. The Armed Forces are its personnel. There are many issues that are important, and I wanted to raise two of them. The first is veteran questions. We note that the Swedish Armed Forces have been conducting international efforts since 1948. For a long time Swedish soldiers have risked their lives for the peace and freedom of others and do so today. The soldiers are making an important contribution for Sweden, both at home and abroad. These people, who are prepared to risk their own lives and health in order to safeguard someone else's freedom, deserve the respect and support of society. Many of our soldiers have suffered injuries and made other sacrifices in the service of peace. Yet we in our country have been bad at taking care of our veterans. It's unworthy. The Christian Democrats are in favour of peace-keeping and peace-making international efforts, and we believe that we have a moral responsibility to assist our fellow citizens abroad. However, in order for us to be able to participate in these efforts with a clear conscience, we need to be able to take good care of our soldiers when they return home after completing their duties abroad or within the Swedish Armed Forces. Madam President, I would like Important changes have already been made. The introduction of the Swedish Armed Forces Medal to wounded in battle and the Medal of Merit with swords and the establishment of a veteran monument at the Maritime Museum are important measures. The instituted Veteran Day is an opportunity for the Swedish people, regardless of political opinion, to pay tribute to our veterans and honour the memory of our fallen. The Veteran Centre proposed by the Christian Democrats 2013 was established in 2017, which is gratifying. However, there is more to be done. One proposal we highlight in our reservation, namely how we can better catch up with the civilians who have been working for Sweden. Volunteers and non-profit organisations should be encouraged generally in society, so even when it comes to organisations working with veteran support. Gifts to veteran organizations such as the Swedish Soldier Home Association, the Individual Zone and the Peace Berets could, for example, be covered by the gift tax deduction that we want to introduce for donations to non-profit organisations. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about the NGOs. It is important to see that these have historically been a very important part of total defence. When we are now going to rebuild the total defence and have a strong civil defence, it is therefore of the utmost importance that we include the NGOs. Today, there are a wide range of NGOs, 18 of them, and we emphasise that they are important both to inform about the defence and to be involved in recruitment, not least by involving young people. In our motion in reservation 12, we are talking about strengthening the financial conditions for NGOs. Once again, I am in favour of reservation 8 in paragraph 7.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-140	Madam President, I would like Some wise things have been said in this House about our staffing problems. In retrospect, it is only to be noted that the transition to total voluntary recruitment that took place exactly ten years ago did not go well either in quantitative or qualitative terms. On the other hand, we have not been able to man our war organisation in a stable way during this time, and on the other hand, fewer and fewer people have been educated, which has led to a significant reduction in the base that exists for the Swedish Armed Forces. This has also led us to find it difficult to recruit what was once highly sought after positions, such as professional officers, airmen and soldiers in special units. It may be to harden it somewhat, but the fact is that we now have almost ten years to catch up. If, as the preparation suggests, by 2024, we increase the number of basic graduates per year to 8,000, it will solve some of our concerns. At the same time, Madam President, I would like to warn that there is an over-exploitation in this context in such a way that we take the lives of young people without being able to place them in a relevant position of war. There is also that risk. Madam President, I would like It is almost ten years since the current military veteran legislation came into force on 1 January 2011. The Veteran Act contains a wide range of rules to protect and support our veterans and their relatives. It is about the right to information, the right to time-unlimited rehabilitation in case of injury and support and help in different ways to both the veterans and their relatives. On the civilian side, Madam President, there is no corresponding protection legislation. Five six years ago, I attended a seminar where Ebola nurses, nurses who cared for Ebola disease in Congo, spoke about their experiences. I realised, Madam President, that the wear and tear and the risks they exposed themselves are fully comparable to those faced by our soldiers abroad. However, it is not just about nurses. It is about police and rescue services, aid workers and more. I just need to mention names like Zaida Catalán and Anders Compass in order for everyone to understand what we are talking about. Most military personnel engaged in international operations are strengthened as individuals by the operation. However, there is also a small number who feel very bad and need extensive support and help. Since 2017, we have a veteran unit in the Swedish Armed Forces. But, Madam President, it is my opinion that it is not enough. We need to set up a national veteran centre for both military and civilian officials, where very difficult cases can be helped with, for example, medical guidance, insurance law – which is very complex in this area – and the establishment and updating of statistics on all these issues. Sweden is a relatively small country in veteran politics. Compared to the United Kingdom and the United States, few soldiers are sent, and there are also few civil servants. If you are to build up a sensible competence around these very specific problems, it is important that you gather it in one place and that it becomes a place where both military and civil officials can turn. I request the approval of reservation 8.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-150	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. Today, we are debating issues relating to the very core of the Swedish Armed Forces: staff. This is by far the most important part for us to have a Swedish defence at all. Human resources have been one of the major challenges of the last decade and have also undergone tremendous changes. Since military service was suspended in 2010, it has now been almost three years since the Government decided to reactivate both the obligation to sign and the obligation to complete basic education with military service. For a couple of years now, Swedish young adults have had to sign as well as carry out basic training with military service if they have been invited to do so. After nearly a decade of empty training places, we are finally beginning to reach the point where the training places are full. However, it is time to take the next step and increase the number of places in education, because we need more. I therefore look forward to the important bill on the future of the defence, which will transform the Defence Committee's report into real politics. Human resources must be a priority in this area. Getting more people to want to do basic training in the Swedish Armed Forces, getting more people to want to join the Swedish Armed Forces, getting more people to want to join the Swedish Armed Forces, and getting more people to want to be part of the Home Guard are just some of the challenges that we have to face. But, Madam President, we must also have a defence force with greater diversity. The fact that the Armed Forces are so much men is a weakness. It is a weakness as there are a lot of talented individuals in our country that we miss, individuals who could strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. It is a weakness because the Swedish Armed Forces, whose task is to protect the entire population of Sweden, must also represent the Swedish population. When the UN adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, it was also recognised that a military made up only of men would never be able to see the needs of the entire population. Fortunately, in Sweden, we have several talented women in the Swedish Armed Forces, both civilian and military, but they must be more numerous. The fact that we now have gender-neutral military service is an important step, but we need to take more. Who is called is based on the patterning base. The basis is that those who turn 18 during the current year appreciate their own ability and express their interest – or lack of interest – in carrying out basic education. The self-estimated ability along with the interest is then what determines whether or not the person is called to sign. Pending the Swedish Recruiting Authority's annual report for 2019, we can note that in 2018, the Agency called 11 000 people born in 2000 for signing up. Of them, 3,000 were women and 8,000 were men. Of the 3,655 00s finally enrolled to complete basic training with military service, only 585 were women. This means that a little more than 16 percent of the enrolled 00s were women. It is certainly a step forward, but it is not enough. An extremely important step towards increasing the number of women in the Swedish Armed Forces is to increase the interest among women. With the former male military service, the implementation of military service became a male tradition. The sons shared the stories of their fathers before they themselves entered. Women do not yet have the historical tradition. That's why we have a hell of a lot bigger job to do here. The Armed Forces have a job to do. We have a job to do. If we are to be completely honest, it is enough to take a look at our own committee to see exactly the same trend. Of the 17 ordinary members of the Defence Committee, 6 are women. It is not quite the case that we politicians set a good example. The fact that defence issues are still so incredibly male-dominated, we politicians, the Armed Forces, NGOs and other actors must work actively to change. It is a question of democracy. Madam President, I would like Defence policy is very serious. Every day, soldiers and other personnel contribute to providing security around the world. They do so by exposing themselves to enormous risks and working in harsh environments. These are operations like Minusma in Mali, where the Armed Forces under the UN flag collect intelligence to contribute to the security, stability and protection of the population in the region. These are operations such as the one in Afghanistan, where the Armed Forces train and advise the Afghan security forces in order for them to be able to manage the security of the country independently. These are two examples of efforts where we in Sweden make a difference. There are two examples where each individual participating makes a difference. It is our job to ensure that they have the best possible support on the ground and when they come home. They make an impressive contribution, every day and 24 hours, to the stability of the country in which they operate. They and everyone else who is off to international action deserve all the support they and their relatives need. That's why veteran politics is so important. Since 2017, we now have a veteran centre in place within the Swedish Armed Forces. Since July 2017, Veteran Day on 29 May is a general flag day. These are two important steps to better care for our veterans and to show our appreciation for their efforts. I look forward to us as a committee continuing our work to take care of our veterans in the best possible way. Finally, I would like to thank all those who make our defence force what it is today, both in Sweden and abroad. This applies to those who themselves work in and for our armed forces, but also to all the relatives who make that work possible – without you no armed forces!
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-170	Madam President, I would like During my speech, I put a few questions to the government parties. Since only one of the government parties is represented and our Minister for Defence is rarely seen in the Chamber during our debates, it will be Alexandra Völker who will answer them. The first question is that we have a situation in which we reduce the number of permanent soldiers employed. The number of officers leaving the Swedish Armed Forces is greater than the number added. The number of conscripts trained has not reached the goals set for any of the years you have had the government. This can be described in different ways, but the easiest is well to describe it as a failure. Nevertheless, the question must be: why have you not done anything to try to achieve the objectives? As some speakers have said, you have been keen supporters of military service, and you usually say that military service increases the volume in such a way that a selection can be made in order to recruit officers and to build a stronger defence force, which we have a fairly broad political consensus on. But the question remains: why have you done nothing? Why have you not taken action to come up with the objectives necessary to build a stronger defence?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-173	Madam President, I would like I think Mr Andersson is forgetting parts of the story. After all, it was the previously moderate-led government that changed the entire personnel supply system within the Swedish Armed Forces, and we still see the consequences of this. The first thing that happened when we switched from a Moderate to a Social Democratic Minister for Defence in 2014 was to reactivate the duty to do refresher training so that the units in the country for the first time since the duty was suspended could carry out exercises with full bandages. They had not been able to do so since then. Since then, efforts have been made to take the necessary steps step by step to ensure that we have a staff supply that works. It has now been about two years since military service was reinstated, and we see a significant improvement in filling the training places. So I find it hard to understand that the honourable Member says that nothing is being done and asks why this is not being taken seriously.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-175	Madam President, I would like It is an interesting description that is given. It would also be interesting to have an account of the years during which the objectives of trained conscripts were achieved. You're welcome to explain that. There is also another issue. TRM, the National Defence Recruitment Authority, has a little bit of a history. In the past, the government failed to notify the agency that there would be a number of police officers who would also be signed up. It got pretty crowded in the offices. Now we face a similar situation. The government has commissioned TRM to grow, and TRM has said that you can do it but that you then need certain resources. It is not about large resources in the first step – perhaps 80 million in the long term and 20 million in the first half of the year to get to grips. Since the Minister of Defence visited the agency last week, he is surely well aware of the conditions and costs involved. But a simple answer would be to say: Yes, the 20 million needed to make this decision according to the task we have given the agency, we must allocate in our amending budget. That is why I ask Alexandra Völker: are you prepared to provide those funds in our amending budget to enable the Total Defence Personnel Agency to manage to recruit the soldiers we need?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-179	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, I think it has been clear during the years in which the Social Democrats have had both the government and the Ministry of Defence that we take these issues very seriously. It is not possible to deliver at a faster pace given the level of origin we started at. During these years, we have added historical increases to the Swedish Armed Forces, and we have taken the supply of personnel very seriously to try to repair the damage done in previous years. I think the honourable Member is well aware that I cannot promise money myself. These are issues that need to be dealt with in a much more serious way, in a budget negotiation but also in the defence bill. It is the one that is so important – that is where we should take a holistic approach to defence issues and how we ensure that we get the defence of Sweden that we need. This applies to both staff and all other parts that need to be involved in this.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-181	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I fully share Alexandra Völker's view of the value of diversity and more women in defence. It was lucky that when the military service was deactivated in 2010, the alliance government made it gender neutral by the same decision. I'm also happy about Alexandra Völker's commitment to veterans. It is I, Madam President, in view of the fact that the Social Democrats voted against veteran legislation when we voted on it in this House in 2010. When it came to the establishment of a veteran centre within the Armed Forces, it was created by an announcement based on a motion by a person close to me in the Defence Committee. The same was true of flag day, which was raised in the Constitutional Committee. I pointed out in my speech that today we still lack protection legislation for civil servants who make operations internationally with the same risks and wear and tear as our military personnel. I happen to know that there is a complete bill for the protection of civilians who have now been in the Government Office for more than four years. Will the government ensure that protection is also provided for civil servants?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-184	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I can pay tribute to the Alliance Government for at least making it gender neutral when it was duty-bound. It was certainly a good decision in this context. As far as veterans are concerned, I should also like to thank Allan Widman for his great commitment to veteran issues. When it comes to the announcements about the veteran centre, it must be remembered that we were not really against the very creation of such a centre, but that it was about choosing to run before the consultation bodies and that we wanted to do so in a slightly different way. It was more where the shoe squeezed. So it wasn't that the government didn't want to introduce a veteran center. This has now also been assigned to the Swedish Armed Forces, and it is now in place. I fully agree with the honourable Member's view that it is important that the civilian veterans are also taken care of and that we must do so in the best possible way. I myself will certainly follow up on this issue, which I think is incredibly important. We will have to review exactly how it should be done in the best way, but that they too should be taken care of is of course incredibly important. As Mr Widman says, their efforts are very great and the pressures they face are at least as severe.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-187	Madam President, I would like I am delighted with the message that Alexandra Völker is now giving, and I will take that note in our continued cooperation. I would just like to make a brief point: When we make military operations in Afghanistan or Mali, we start by putting in place a proper infrastructure. We build high walls around our camp. There's a doctor there. There is all the service you really expect when you are here at home. Civil servants are often completely alone. They're supposed to get accommodation on an individual basis. They should take care of their own work and plan it on all aspects. I believe that in many cases they live in a situation at least as vulnerable as our military do. That is why I hope for the success of Alexandra Völker's ambition and that team protection for these people will soon be in place.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-191	Madam President, I would like I can only agree that this is an important effort by these civilians and that they are under severe pressure. It is clear that these people are incredibly important to our country.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-192	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Hello to those of you who are listening at home! Today we are debating a large number of motions in the field of defence policy dealing with the personnel of the Armed Forces, recruitment and how we ensure that those working within the Armed Forces have as good conditions and work opportunities as possible. The Left Party has no motion of its own this year. I will therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words. We in Sweden have in recent years begun to expand our defences again. A very important cornerstone of this is the return of military service. All young people who turn 18 sign up and are tested for military service. The Left Party thinks this is very good. The compulsory service guarantees a popular attachment when it comes to the operations of the Swedish Armed Forces. As many different people as possible – with different backgrounds and experiences – participate in the defence of Sweden and gain important knowledge about how to make our country safer and safer for everyone. The compulsory service also makes recruitment to the Swedish Armed Forces a little easier. When it is actually a duty for young people to sign up, we believe that we can recruit people to the Armed Forces who might not have thought of it themselves earlier that it could be a mission they would like to have or an education that they would like to go on. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is a feminist party, and in a feminist defence and security policy, the issue of popular attachment is very important. Since the reinstatement of military service, it is also gender neutral. Women's participation in defence and security work is crucial for the whole of society to be able to withstand crises and acute events. Gender equality has its own value. Gender balance at work and in decision-making assemblies shows that society is there for everyone. But gender equality is also a method that makes use of people's different perspectives and experiences when planning our society. It is therefore ultimately a question of democracy. Despite the fact that the parties today agree that gender equality is a very important cornerstone in our society and that women and men should have equal opportunities, the Swedish Armed Forces' activities lag considerably behind when it comes to gender equality. Only around 20 percent of those who do military service are women. The fact that the level of women in military service is so low is actually quite upsetting. The Left Party is not alien to the fact that some form of positive discrimination is needed to achieve gender balance – we expect a gender balance to be achieved by 2035. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces are good at highlighting women in their communication, and gender issues are taken very seriously. You can see that when you are out on study visits and when visitors come to the committee and talk. It is very important that we show young women that there are women in the Swedish Armed Forces to have as role models. The voluntary defence organisations also play an important role here. It is about everyone being able to contribute to the defence of Sweden in different ways, even if you may not want to or can do precisely military service. Voluntary organisations must therefore be supported in different ways in order to be able to become larger and stronger and to operate in society. To make the Swedish Armed Forces and defence operations more visible and more understandable to the public and to increase understanding of what a modern defence force is doing I think gives a greater motivation for the population to be involved in contributing. Madam President, I would like Today, there is hardly any industry in Sweden that says that it is easy to recruit staff – whether it is public welfare or private business. The same applies, of course, to the defence. Public procurement legislation is an advantage in this respect. You get young people who are patterning and who are being tested. But in order for us to retain the staff who are trained and who start working within the Swedish Armed Forces, we need to invest in working conditions and working conditions, but also in wages. The Swedish Armed Forces' activities, like those of the police, rescue services and the like, present great risks. It can be dangerous for employees. It is about professions where there are great demands that you are in good physical form and that you can cope with major challenges. The activities are open 24 hours a day, and sometimes you have your workplace quite far away from home for long periods of time. Sweden also participates in international efforts. We're sending military and civilian personnel on missions abroad. When those people come home as veterans, they should have all the support they need and want from both the Armed Forces and the surrounding community. It is incredibly important that we work to ensure that the working conditions and working environment are as good as possible in the Swedish Armed Forces' operations, so that people want to stay for a long time. Wages are not something that is decided by us politicians, but in negotiations between the social partners. That is how it should be, of course, but it is important that there is room in the budget to actually increase the salaries of those who are employed by the Swedish Armed Forces. Good wages, good working environment and good working conditions are prerequisites for a modern and well-functioning defence operations in Sweden in the future.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-206	Madam President, I would like It's a joy to be year-rich. To have another year filled with experiences — both those you are happy to carry with you and those you could have without — is life. Building a society where everyone can age in security and dignity is an urgent objective for us Christian Democrats. A welfare society can be assessed to a large extent on the basis of criteria such as respect for, exploitation of and care for the year-long generation. Older people should be able to live an active life and have influence in society and over their everyday lives. They should be able to age safely while maintaining independence. They should be treated with respect and have access to good care. Each of us should be seen as a person of his own and unique value. We have different interests and backgrounds. Good care, need-made housing and self-determination over everyday life are a matter of course – all of life. The Social Services Act states that older people should be able to feel well-being. The law also states that the municipality has a kind of area responsibility and the ultimate responsibility for the individual to receive the support and assistance it needs. So it is a law that assumes that what is done is based on needs and that it is person-centred. I believe that we elected representatives need to devote more time to seeing the whole, the area of responsibility. How do we build a society that provides the conditions for community? How do we plan in the municipality? What efforts need to be made to support civil society? And what efforts are needed to provide support and assistance to individuals? It is good to sometimes take a step back, get an overview and to put together the different parts, so that you get the bigger picture and see the whole for older people and all other residents. When the committee is debating ageing issues today, it is both the whole and the parts that are included. You have rights regardless of age: action according to needs regardless of age and the ability to feel well-being regardless of age. Madam President, I would like The lack of housing is evident in most municipalities. The economic situation does not make it easier for municipalities today. State aid for the construction of various types of housing is therefore necessary to meet the needs of older people. We also need to think about the role of the aid assessment. Do any of us want to move into a special accommodation if we don't need it? No, probably not. I think the vast majority of people give that answer. It is when our own accommodation no longer works for us that we need an opportunity to move to an adapted accommodation. I believe that the aid assessment needs to be changed in some parts of the forthcoming legislative review to be presented later this year. More simplification of aid assessment is needed in more areas of social services. Is it reasonable to try out an elderly person's requests for adapted accommodation? No, it's not. Instead, we will do everything we can to ensure that there are enough adapted accommodations throughout the country. I would particularly like to highlight the couple housing guarantee that was introduced in 2012. It means that when one in a couple is in need of an adapted accommodation, the other should also have the right to move with. One should therefore be able to continue living together even when one needs extensive care and help. What about the reform? Do older people have the opportunity to live in a couple? This is highlighted in reservation 10, and I call for this reservation to be approved. Madam President, I would like Research shows that care for the elderly with quality requires a person-centred approach, where the staff can create a secure environment and a personal relationship with the elderly. For this to be possible, elderly care personnel need to be given good opportunities to do a good job. Those who work with important welfare activities in home care or in a nursing home need good working conditions in order to provide high quality care. It is also important that the care professions are attractive, so that the staff supply can work. There is already a shortage of labour in the care of the elderly. 70 per cent of staff say that staffing is insufficient at least one day per week. Bad schedules contribute to stress and sick leave. Nearly 80 percent of elderly care staff experience mental stress and rush at work at least once a week, and more than half experience it almost every day. We Christian Democrats have made proposals to improve the staffing situation of the elderly. It is about continuity and sufficient time to build good relationships between residents and staff – to build the security and trust that promotes quality. We therefore need active work to reduce so-called shared tours. Working for a while in the morning, going home for a couple of hours and then coming back to work are not good working conditions. We need to find ways to remove the shared tours from the care of the elderly. We have good care for the elderly in Sweden. However, we lack adequate accommodation, and the working conditions of employees in care for the elderly need to be improved. All people should be able to live a good life all their lives. You should feel well-being, be respected for who you are and have a natural place in the community. Being year-long is not an obstacle or an inconvenience. On the contrary, it is an advantage for society to be able to contribute in the way we want and can throughout our lives.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-225	Madam President, I would like Do you know that average life expectancy increases by 31⁄2 hours every day? Isn't that incredible? Never before has life expectancy been as high in Sweden as now: 80.7 years for men and 84.1 years for women. Since 1920, life expectancy has increased by as much as 23 years. It is amazing that we live longer and that we also add more healthy and active years to life. Therefore, it is really time to look at years-rich people with new eyes and better take advantage of all the knowledge and experience that seniors possess. Seniors are a force to be reckoned with; be assured! At the risk of saying the obvious: Seniors are not a homogeneous group. That must be taken into account by all of us who are decision-makers in the decisions we take. Just because you reach a certain age is not the need, the desire and the way you want to live on the same. For me as a moderate, it is quite natural to talk about both empowerment and freedom of choice in the case of seniors. As I said last year in this speaker's chair, freedom of choice must be developed and not phased out. But you know what I miss? I miss a vision for care and care that concerns seniors. I'm missing a clear direction. And I lack the ability to take responsibility nationally for care for the elderly. Targets for elderly care exist, and last year a new goal of equal care and care was added. That's good. But I miss the vision and direction. It is clear to me what needs to be done in terms of the development of care for year-long people. Firstly, we must move from a reactive approach to a proactive approach. What does that mean? Yes, it means that we should work more preventively. We know there's a lot to do here. You can already take a simple x - ray of your teeth today to see if you are at risk of osteoporosis. Through strength training, for example, we can prevent osteoporosis. Through good diet we prevent malnutrition. And through social activities, we can prevent involuntary loneliness. Secondly, we need to move from a compensatory approach to a rehabilitating approach. I have mentioned earlier in this speaker's chair the example from Denmark of everyday rehabilitation in home care. It is a question of maintaining, regaining and improving the ability to function. As a result, older people become more independent in their daily lives. Thirdly, this point concerns not only care and care for seniors, but the whole view that we must move from talking about a demographic challenge to actually seeing seniors as the power they really are and better harnessing the power, skills, experience and knowledge of seniors. Madam President, I would like In the report we are dealing with today on older people, I would like to highlight the third motion in the Moderate motion to strengthen the quality of life of seniors, which is about both following up and developing two decisions already taken on simplified aid assessment and the couple housing guarantee. I would therefore like to call for the approval of the Moderates and the Christian Democrats of Amendment No 10. On 1 July 2018, the provision on simplified aid assessment came into force. This means an opportunity for municipalities to offer home care to older people without a means test. This makes it easier and gives greater scope for both participation and self-determination. It is now a year and a half since this provision was introduced. Then we moderates think that it is perfectly reasonable for us to evaluate this and also see if this can be developed. We Moderates also want to commission the government to follow up on the so-called couple housing guarantee, which has existed since 2012. This guarantee means a right for spouses to live together on special accommodation even when only one of the spouses has received special housing assistance. When you have lived together your whole life, you should of course also be able to do so in the autumn of your age. Madam President, I would like When we stand here debating next year, I hope we have more sharp proposals, I hope we have a common understanding in a number of areas and I hope that perhaps we can get some announcement in terms of prevention and rehabilitation of physical activity on prescriptions, fall prevention, nutrition and osteoporosis. I also hope that we have more sharp proposals on involuntary loneliness and mental ill-health. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to refer to what Ingrid Bergman said: Ageing is like climbing a mountain. You get a little out of breath, but you get a much better view.
i-FDc993PZgxu3ALyrhXX8oY	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister for Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Matilda Ernkrans and Minister Åsa Lindhagen. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-240	Madam President, I would like The period 2016 – 2019 goes to history as a monumental waste in the field of housing policy. The Government allocated over SEK 20 billion in various subsidies for construction and renovation. The Swedish National Audit Office has sawed several of the forms of support, and in a study it has been noted that over 60 per cent of the homes built with the help of the support had been built anyway. At a time when Sweden is suffering from many major social problems, I would like to ask the Minister for Housing how he can stand to reintroduce this support when so many of the housing supported had been built anyway.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for an important question! Of course, we shall use our public finances efficiently and ensure that they are useful. However, we can also note that with the policies that have characterised the housing side for a long time – that you step back and see it not as a political area but as an area where market forces are to prevail – you get the situation that we are in now, that is, a situation where there have been far too few homes built for far too long and where it is built for those who have the highest incomes and not for the great needs. We need to change this. We need political responsibility in housing policy. That is why I am proud that we now have a more active housing policy than we have in a long time. I do not agree with Mr Bohlin's assessment of the aid that has existed. On the contrary – when I read the Swedish Municipalities and Regions evaluation, I can see that there are a lot of houses that would not have been built, and if they had been built, the rents would have been higher and the energy efficiency would have been lower. Our support is useful here and now.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-247	Madam President, I would like The problem is that none of the housing subsidies currently available address the real social problems that exist in the residential area. Instead, they are going to subsidise the construction of housing which mainly goes to people who could still afford to ask for them, because the majority is still divided according to queue time. Madam President, I would like So this is not my evaluation. It is an evaluation made by SKR, which states that 60 percent of the built homes had been built anyway.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-249	Madam President, I would like I have also taken note of evaluations that show the opposite – that those who take part of the support say that it does very much good and that it really is built more of what is most needed, that is, small rental apartments. I think that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin should see the latest section of Mission review on the huge needs of the housing market – there are so many people who can't take the step in and get their own safe housing – and take responsibility for the Moderates when you gain power over politics cutting away housing policy but adding nothing. You take away, but you're not prepared to act.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-252	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Bolund. The Government has announced through the Prime Minister that it intends to pursue a tight migration policy, and Minister Shekarabi said this week that we cannot have large immigration in the coming years. However, the Swedish Immigration Service's latest forecast shows – on the contrary – that asylum immigration to Sweden is increasing again. The Green Party is also moving in the opposite direction. They want sickness to be a reason for asylum, they want a unconditional family immigration and they want – at the latest – probationary employment for unaccompanied men without protection reasons to be sufficient for permanent residence permits. At the same time, the economic situation in many municipalities is acute, and according to SKR this is largely due to costs for new arrivals. Madam President, I would like This doesn't make any sense. What does the government intend to do to keep the Green Party's influence away from migration policy?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-257	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting and – one might say – pointed question. This is not how Swedish politics works, but when you work together on politics, you work together and get along together. The Swedish Democrats may not have that much experience, but the Green Party has a lot of experience in making agreements. We also made an agreement on migration policy in autumn 2015. We changed the policy because we saw that there was such a large group that we were not able to take care of it. Now we have a new situation. We have far fewer people coming to Sweden. Of course you should be able to apply for asylum in Sweden. We have the right to asylum; it is a human right that we stand up for. We also think that there are reasons for having the opportunity to be protected for humanitarian reasons when it is simply unreasonable to be expelled, because the consequences are too great. It is a policy supported by the Green Party. It is also a policy that we have agreed widely in the Swedish Parliament. It can be said that the Swedish Democrats are the party that stands out and who never think that there are any reasons for people to have a secure future in Sweden if they come from another country.
i-T8TYxbHGioJc69rLCL1uux	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Bolund, for your answer. I think there are some mixed signals, if I am to express myself in a kind way, but I can try to reformulate the issue. Can the Government assure the Swedish people that the government is working to reduce the number of asylum seekers so that the municipalities get a chance to recover financially and pay off the large integration debt that exists?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-265	Madam President, I would like Anyone can look at the statistics and see that there are now far fewer people coming to our country than it did for example in the years 2015– 2016. I think we have a responsibility for the people who are now in our country, who deserve to have a good and secure future and who also helps to make Sweden a better country. We should not forget that a lot of people with foreign background every day go to work and every day make amazing contributions to welfare and our common economy. This is something that the Swedish Democrats just want to close their eyes to and belittle.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-267	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Matilda Ernkrans my question. After all, there will be a research and innovation bill later this year. An issue that both the Riksdag and the Government have been working very hard on for several years is about the food strategy that has been adopted. The strategy has also been followed up with action plans of various kinds. This strategy highlights the importance of strategically important initiatives where it is important that research related to academia and industry interact in different ways. After all, the food industry has an extremely low proportion that goes to research, and this is a problem in itself. Such a strategically important issue is usually dealt with in large proposals, which a research and innovation bill is. In what way will food research issues be visible in the large bill coming later this year?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Heie, for a very important question! It is indeed a privilege for the Minister for Higher Education and Research to lead the work, which we are now working on, to develop a new research and innovation policy bill that we will present to Parliament this autumn. It is a work that we need to gather around, not least here in the middle of Swedish politics, to develop the research and innovation policy based on Sweden as a leading knowledge and research nation. My hope and ambition is that we will be able to continue to pursue a research policy that responds to our societal challenges, such as the climate issue, the health challenge and other challenges that we need to be able to face together. Here, of course, are also the green industries, food issues and other important challenges and important input into what we are going to do in the future.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the question. In the past, the issues of strategic innovation areas, strategic research areas and so on have been addressed. How does the Minister see this issue gaining sufficient weight? Sometimes you refer to Sweden Food Arena, which is an important concept, but it needs so much more. I myself come from Skaraborg, where, for example, animal research at SLU in Skara is an important part. In what way will the need-driven research also be taken further into account in future proposals?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-278	Madam President, I would like The exact way in which we can address different research policy areas, challenges and so on is something that we have to work with. We will ensure that here in the Swedish Parliament we receive a research and innovation policy bill that will ensure that Sweden will continue to be a leading innovation nation but also a leading research and knowledge nation. I very much look forward to our continued work and can assure the honourable Member that we have many good input.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-281	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Per Bolund. Recently the RUT investigation was presented, which wants to extend the RUT deduction to also include home refurbishment, to have things run to flea market or to flower watering at the wealthy when they are on vacation. At the same time, there is a crisis in welfare. Around the country is now planned for cuts. In this situation, the government chooses to give priority to increased RUT deduction over investments in welfare. As if this were not enough, the investigator proposes that this be financed by increased air tax. However, the objective of the air tax should reasonably be to finance a green transition and investment in rail and maintenance. Why should it go to even more tax deductions in the richest areas? It is well-being that is in crisis, and the climate cannot wait. Does the Minister share the investigator's view that the airline tax should finance an increased RUT deduction?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-285	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is an investigation proposal, and I believe that Tony Haddou knows that not all proposals for investigation are automatically government proposals. We are now, of course, taking in these proposals and will then continue to work on them. However, in connection with the January agreement between the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, we have agreed to extend the RUT deduction. It is because we see the positive effect that people who are otherwise at risk of long-term unemployment can actually get a foothold in the labour market. This should not be opposed to spending on welfare. It is not that they are each other exclusively. We could, of course, spend over SEK 35 billion on welfare during the last parliamentary term. During this parliamentary term, we have said that we should add EUR 5 billion each year, and we have already made proposals to bring forward another EUR 5 billion already in our budget. Of course, we will be able to provide the wealth with the resources it needs, and we are prepared to do more in the future if the need exists.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-289	Madam President, I would like RUT is a very expensive reform. It's funny, because what you've heard over the years is that RUT should be self-financing. Now there has been a new report from Growth Analysis that shows that each RUT job corresponds to about three four welfare jobs in costs. My further question is this: would it not be more reasonable for these jobs to end up in welfare, which really needs staff and which needs to be strengthened throughout the country, than for them to end up with individual rich people who make the most of the grant?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-291	Madam President, I would like We do not see that there are no conditions for more people working in the private sector and that more people can also get jobs in the public sector. During the time that has passed with a red-green government, we have also raised the number of employees in the public sector strongly, precisely because we are able to invest. We have exactly what Mr Haddou is calling for, that is, what is called extra services. Unfortunately, that was quite a cut when the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats went through in the Riksdag. But it is an initiative that we think is leading to both people getting a foothold in the labour market and that we get valuable welfare services done.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-294	Madam President, I would like The situation in the socially disadvantaged areas of our country is getting worse. Today we have 60 vulnerable areas and 22 particularly vulnerable areas. Segregation, crime, idleness and unemployment flourish here. Crime against young people is increasing strongly. We have schools where only a third of the students reach upper secondary school qualifications. It is nothing but shameful that we have only watched when the childhood environment of children has deteriorated and been segregated. In reality Sweden, our municipalities are struggling to break the segregation and work to achieve integration and community, but they must be given the opportunity to reverse the development. Municipality after municipality testifies that they are unable to receive, cannot cope with the economy. The minister responsible for the segregation work for the establishment of new arrivals is Åsa Lindhagen, and I do not feel that the minister responds with concrete legislative changes. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask whether the Minister does not hear the calls of the municipalities for help.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-297	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the honourable Member for raising these extremely important issues. A very important part of combating segregation is long-term work. In this respect, the policy has broken in a number of ways in terms of projects and short-termism. People in areas with socio-economic challenges are tired of short-termism that does not bring about structural change, so that is an important starting point. The Government developed a long-term strategy for countering and reducing segregation last term. It focuses on housing, the labour market, school, democracy, civil society and crime. These different areas we need to work with and continue to take the work forward. There is considerable work to be done against crime, not least. The 34-point programme, which has been developed, also covers the fight against gang crime. We provided resources to municipalities and regions during the last parliamentary term and will also provide resources in the future. It is important to provide resources.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-301	Madam President, I would like I know very well that there is no quickfix and that a long-term approach is required, but Åsa Lindhagen has been a minister for over a year and has not put forward any really sharp proposals. Language skills must start to be required and the start-up period should be extended for those who need it, and there must be activity requirements for supply support. We Christian Democrats want the state to take over the cost of supply aid for the unemployed. I do not hear any government proposals that could really make a difference. And worse, I don't think the municipalities hear it either.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-304	Madam President, I would like There are several different parts here. Part of it is that we contributed 35 billion to the welfare of the last parliamentary term and continue to inject resources. It is welcome in the light of the discussion that exists in the Riksdag about the need to invest in welfare. I think this is an extremely important part of this work. We also laid a good foundation for the last term of office with the long-term strategy, with the authority Delmos set up and with the state subsidies available to municipalities and regions as a further addition of resources to counter segregation. We also work with establishment. These are two different issues, but they have different approaches.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-308	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Over the past month, the threat that many gender researchers live under has once again emerged. In 2018, someone placed a bomb rap outside the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research in Gothenburg. The Gender Department in Uppsala has at open lectures nowadays always guards outside, this after menacing people have appeared with the word. Individual researchers testify that they are exposed to threats and harassment. Madam President, I would like There may be differences of opinion about the need for a research area or for the sake of the conclusions drawn by these researchers. But a free country requires a research world where researchers can operate safely and safely.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-312	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Nilsson for drawing attention to this. It is totally unacceptable that researchers and principals at our colleges and universities should be exposed to threats, hatred and harassment. One should of course be able to spread one's knowledge and research results. We want more people to learn about new knowledge and research results. The silence of scientists on account of threats and hatred threatens, by extension, our democracy. For this reason, I am just as worried and upset about this as the honourable Member. Therefore, I have taken the initiative to invite the universities that in different ways in the media or in other ways in contact with the Ministry of Education signaled that they have concerns about threats and hatred of researchers and principals. Now we're gonna have a first call, and then we're gonna have to move on from there.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-314	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is gratifying that the Government has already taken the initiative for a round table discussion. Let me point out, however, that a round table will not prevent any researchers from experiencing threats and harassment.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-317	Madam President, I would like We must begin by talking with those who have been exposed to the problem. We know it's a problem, but we don't know the scale. On that basis, we will have to take this further. It may be that we need to take further action on the basis of the information we obtain in this discussion. I also see the research and innovation policy proposal we are working on as an opportunity. Here, in the middle of Swedish politics, we can jointly find measures to stand up for free research.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-320	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ernkrans. The fact that research and education are conducted throughout the country is a crucial issue for the whole country to live, grow and develop. If we also want the research to be of maximum use and have the best possible quality, it is good to have collaboration with the surrounding society. Collaboration between academia, industry and other social actors is a success factor. How will the Minister work to stimulate cooperation locally and regionally and that this also contributes to better opportunities for higher education throughout the country?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-323	Madam President, I would like I thank Linus Sköld for the question. Collaboration is really a Swedish signum and something that has served Sweden very well. Although we are a small country in the north, we produce world-leading research, and we are extremely good at innovation. In addition, we have higher education and research throughout our country. Collaboration is the key between academia, politics and business. Universities and higher education institutions already have the task of collaborating with the surrounding society. We now continue to develop research and innovation policy together in the middle of Swedish politics and take this further into the research and innovation policy bill.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-327	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Just recently, the government launched the cooperation programmes. My picture is that they become important for creating jobs and innovation throughout the country. Since skills shortages are a very significant problem in large parts of the Swedish labour market, one of the themes for the collaboration programmes is competence provision. What role does the Minister feel will be given to the cooperation programmes in terms of strengthening the supply of skills throughout the country?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-330	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member is asking a question about something that I would like to raise anyway. Under the direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs, we have launched the cooperation programmes, and the theme of one of them is precisely the supply of skills and lifelong learning. Here, cooperation with the business community is very important, and this is something I think we can develop together in the autumn proposal.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-333	Madam President, I would like The lack of housing for those with low incomes is acute. The conditions are also very different around the country. Some municipalities now also choose to tighten up social services' assessments, and how emergency assistance to those who are completely without housing is designed changes. In yesterday's mission we met several families who, due to their structural homelessness, were in a very difficult situation. It is a political failure at all levels, and we must take our responsibility to resolve this. Children should not have to grow up in such an unsafe living environment.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-336	Madam President, I would like Thank you Emma Hult for pointing to a big problem and a big challenge. I share your view that this is not acceptable. As a welfare country, we must ensure that our citizens have the opportunity to live safely, and the government's policy also focuses on this. Investment support is an important measure for obtaining more apartments that even those with lower incomes can demand. Now it will also be targeted so that municipalities can use some of it for housing for young people or people with socio-economic challenges. We need better knowledge of the housing shortage, and therefore we have commissioned Boverket to investigate how the housing shortage can be calculated. Housing shortages are reported from many of Sweden's municipalities, but on very different conditions. In some municipalities, there are only a few retirement homes missing, while in others there are large structural homelessness. On 20 September, we will get a basis from Boverket and thereby a better picture, and then we will also be able to develop a more social housing policy.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-339	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. More housing needs to be built, partly through investment support. However, I believe that more measures are needed. We also need to distribute the housing that exists better. I am convinced that we need a national homelessness strategy, and I hope that this is something we will be able to agree on broad political terms in the Swedish Parliament in the future. We were now told that there will be an investigation from Boverket. What will it be important for Boverket to deliver statistics on the housing shortage?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-343	Madam President, I would like It will help us to target aid where it is most needed. We will also be able to interact better with the municipalities because, as I have said, the municipalities have different conditions. I think that the state should take greater responsibility in this area. Of course, we need a policy to build more, and now it is being built about twice as much as in previous decades. But it also needs to be built for the needs that exist, and then we need a social housing policy. We need to consider what tools the state can use to help municipalities assume their housing responsibility.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-345	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Matilda Ernkrans. In Sweden we have a huge shortage of teachers. Not least, we miss a lot of high school teachers. Unfortunately, we also do not have enough quality of our teacher training. When UKÄ made an evaluation, less than half were approved. We Moderates want to see many changes in teacher education. We want to see more pedagogy, more didactics, more methodology and not least more practice. We would also like to see independent teacher training. In anticipation of this, it was gratifying to see the Government's investment of 30 million for the universities that conduct work-integrated teacher education. That's very pleasing. But then when I read the applications and saw who was or was not granted it was not so pleasing anymore. For example, only a quarter of the applications apply to secondary teachers, the group we have the greatest shortage of.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you for our commitment to getting more teachers and continuing to improve teacher training! It has been taken and continues to take many different measures and initiatives to get a teacher training that attracts more but that more people can also manage so that we can get more talented teachers out of our schools. When it comes to the work integrated teacher education – what we can call working and studying at the same time or the Dala model – part of the government's work is that we want to spread the model to more universities around the country. It is precisely the collaboration between the university or university and the school that is the key to the work-integrated teacher education. There were more than we had money for who wanted to be part of the venture. It shows that the interest is great. The selection has been made based on where we can get the most effective benefit from our money.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-355	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Åsa Lindhagen. Swedes are in a minority in many parts of the country and are subjected to a very severe racist violence. Something that has been going on for a long time but that has been noticed lately are the so-called humiliation robberies, where groups of immigrant boys select lonely Swedish guys. Just because they're Swedes, you beat them and kick them. In some cases you rape them, and in some cases you pee on them. You shoot it and put it on the Internet to make humiliation even bigger. While you're doing this, you call them fucking stag. Even girls are exposed to similar things. Swedish girls are subjected to the most rapes in Europe. Madam President, I would like Never in modern times has it been as dangerous to be young and Swedish as today. I wonder: What does the government think this is because of?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-358	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the hardest sex crime laws in the world, and that is a good thing. If a man rapes his wife every night for a year, he commits 365 rapes. This is not the case in the whole world – in some places it is not rape at all. That it is in Sweden is good, because this is one of our most important social problems. When it comes to men's violence against women, violence in society and racism, there is zero acceptance. An important part of preventing violence and men's violence against women is to get to the destructive masculinity standards that exist. These are standards that mean that men in this society feel that they have the right, for example, to treat women in a certain way and treat people, regardless of gender, in a certain way. We need to get to these standards, because this is not acceptable at all. There must be consequences if you commit serious crimes. One should take responsibility for it, and there will be consequences. It is therefore important to work proactively towards the standards that mean that people think it is okay to behave that way, and then we should have a good legal system.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-362	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Per Bolund. Every year 3 000 right-of-occupancy apartments in Sweden are subjected to crime, including direct hijackings. In Malmö, for example, we have the right-of-occupancy association Ida and right-of-occupancy associations in the Chinese wall where boards have been cut by people who have no interest in the best interests of the association. Children live in apartments without heat and with moisture everywhere. We have individual right-of-occupancy holders who are at risk of losing all their investments and, by extension, their entire economy can be destroyed. Today, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has agreed on an announcement based on the Center Party's proposal on consumer protection for residential buildings. That's good. What is the view of the Minister for Housing that housing rights are being hijacked and that real consumer protection is lacking today? How will the Minister for Housing work for the Government to act further? Can the Minister of Housing promise that this year the government will deliver in terms of consumer protection and right-of-occupancy registers?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-366	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, for a good and important question! We know that this is a problem that exists. It is not widespread, but it is a problem, especially for the people affected. It is the right-of-occupancy associations and individuals who have often gone in with large savings, loans or debts in order to buy their right-of-occupancy apartment. They must be able to feel that they have security socially and economically. I welcome the fact that initiatives are coming. The government is also pushing and working to see how consumers in the housing market can be better protected, for example when it comes to greater clarity in debt so that they do not buy an apartment on which there is a pledge. It should also be possible to take over and be forced to manage, for example when landlords do not behave. We need to have the same view when it comes to right-of-occupancy associations. As a right-of-occupancy holder, you should be able to feel confident that the association is managed for your own good, not for someone else to shoe themselves. Here we will be able to work together in the future.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-371	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Minister of Housing, like the rest of Sweden, saw the latest heartbreaking report on homelessness in Mission review yesterday. Families with children belonging to a growing group called structurally homeless have been forced to leave their homes and move to hostels. Families with children are allowed to move from hostel to hostel because of a poor housing policy, which is ongoing and has been going on during Per Bolund's time as Minister of Housing. Housing must be a social right for everyone regardless of income. One gets pissed off at seeing how the consequences of a failed housing policy continue to affect families with children. I therefore wonder: what can the Minister of Housing afford to give to all these structurally homeless families with children who have nowhere to go?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-373	Madam President, I would like Here it does not help to give advice, but here it helps to make efforts. What we can do is work together. Everyone knows that the state does not build housing, but private operators do. It is the municipalities that provide land for building housing. It is municipalities that have brokering services, such as housing agencies, and can thus give priority. But it is not good enough simply to shift responsibility to someone else, but everyone must be prepared to act. I am equally upset when I see the pictures and hear about the examples where families with children do not have the security to offer their children and cannot lock up in their own home. We must change this. On behalf of the government, I would like to make a clear statement: we are prepared to make changes. We have already gone in with many billions in support of building apartments that people can afford to live in, but we need to take further steps forward. But then we expect other actors to assume their responsibilities and municipalities to use their housing services and ensure that those with the greatest need are given priority so that families with children, for example, will never have to end up on the street.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-377	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. Among the socially most vulnerable, there are homeless people with addiction. The Christian Democrats are working purposefully to strengthen knowledge about the situation of the homeless and the relief efforts for them. Unfortunately, most municipalities today use the so-called stairway model, a method that destroys rather than helps people in homelessness. All municipalities should instead use the evidence-based housing method first. Through it, the homeless person can be offered to live in an apartment with individually adapted support. There are no requirements other than housing. Of those who get the chance, eight out of ten manage to keep their accommodation. We in KD allocate 250 million in our budget to support municipalities to use Bostad first. Madam President, I would like My question to the Government is: What is the government doing to get municipalities to use evidence-based methods when it comes to homeless people with addiction disease?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-382	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Cecilia Engström for an important issue. We know that this is a group that needs the support of society. The legislation clearly identifies who is primarily responsible for helping people who have different forms of addiction problems. According to the Social Services Act, municipalities and social services are responsible for providing assistance and support, and housing is included. I myself have personally met former homeless people who got help through Bostad first. I think it is a very inspiring model, and I hope that more municipalities will be inspired by it. We will now activate ourselves by the government and take further steps towards a socially sustainable housing policy. We will make greater efforts to help those who today find it difficult to enter the housing market. Among them, of course, are people who have mental disabilities or addiction problems, for example. But we cannot escape the fact that it is the municipalities that have the main responsibility. What we can do on the part of the government and the state is to give them the conditions to carry out their mission in the best possible way.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-387	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans and concerns the quality and throughput of teacher education. The problem is not the number of places at the country's higher education institutions, but the so-called detention, i.e. how many students remain in semesters three, four and five. Unfortunately, there is a drop-off of between 20 and 30 percent on, among other things, subject teacher training. We see particularly significant shortcomings in the subject teacher training and secondary teacher orientation. There we would need to recruit more and increase the search pressure. But we would also have to examine at least 4 000 more teachers each year to meet the demand that exists. One of the most important requirements pursued by the Liberals to improve quality is to introduce an aptitude test to gain access to teacher training. When we were in Finland the other day, it was said that the most important thing is to attract the best to teacher education. It has introduced this right there. Why does the government not introduce it in Sweden?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-390	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad is well aware that this is a very important point in the cooperation in the middle of Swedish politics that we have together. We're going to take on the teacher training together. We have a joint commitment to ensure that more people have the opportunity to start a teacher education but also to complete a teacher training and come out as ready-made teachers. Part of the basis that we are now dealing with is about how we can strengthen the admission requirements for teacher education in different ways. It is important that we do this in a good process. We will ensure that we get more teachers ready to teach in classrooms, while maintaining the quality of teacher training across the country. This proposal is there.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-392	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. The tourism industry is in strong growth. It provides jobs and growth throughout the country. When we Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs visited Malung-Sälen a few weeks ago, it became clear how much the tourism industry contributes locally but also what challenges there are for many small municipalities with a large tourist industry. There are, for example, problems in providing infrastructure and services. A few years ago, the tourism industry employed 172 000 people. Today there are probably many more than that. The export value is as much as SEK 144 billion. This is an extremely important industry.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-396	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Eriksson for a very important question. It is also today's first question to me, so I am delighted. It's just like Åsa Eriksson says. This is a very important industry that is growing very strongly. It helps people to come from outside and see our beautiful country. It helps many people in our country travel around and see what this amazing country looks like. It also contributes, as Åsa Eriksson says, increasingly to employment and local jobs, which is very good. It will increasingly become a basic industry for Sweden. The government is now working with the tourism industry to take further steps in a tourism strategy. I believe that the key in the future will be that we can manage to do this in a sustainable way. Then Sweden will also in the future be a hub for the tourism industry in a sustainable way to the benefit of jobs and employment locally, which I think is good for everyone.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-400	Madam President, I would like Yesterday's Mission Review described how the group called structurally homeless increased in Sweden. These are people who have no place to live but who otherwise have no social problems. The report was illustrated with my hometown of Gothenburg, where the cost of housing for homeless people almost doubled between 2011 and 2018. The increase is due to the acute housing shortage in Sweden and is particularly serious in large cities. The municipal politicians in Gothenburg are trying to work long-term to both build more homes and help the homeless find accommodation through housing coaches. My question to Minister of Housing Per Bolund is whether he and the government have, over the last six years, done enough to deal with structural homelessness.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-402	Madam President, I would like This is an incredibly important issue. I, too, saw Mission Review and was upset by the hugely difficult situation that these people and families have ended up in. The simple answer to the question is no. We haven't done enough. It is also clear that many previous governments have not done so, because far too little has been built for far too long. However, I am pleased that during these six years we have had a building act that we have not had for a long time in Sweden historically. We are now building in the order of 50 000 apartments per year, while the building act since the 1990s has been somewhere around 30 000. So we have taken a good step forward, but that is not enough. We need to do even more. It is the municipalities that have the main responsibility. They are responsible for the housing supply of their citizens. I think that the large costs referred to by David Josefsson should motivate the municipalities to try to steer over to allow the money to be useful by, for example, building more in the public good to ensure that more apartments come out, which can reduce the monthly costs. There we are prepared to help on the part of the government.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-406	Madam President, I would like I'd like to talk to you about Swedish hostility. Young people with foreign origin rob Swedish children in groups. They abuse them and force them to receive urine in their mouths while filming them. They're laughing at the victims and calling them fucking stag motherfuckers. The government parties have over the years questioned the concept of Swedish hostility and thereby reduced the actual vulnerability of victims. Those who have reported actual violations have been discredited and accused of carrying out far-right propaganda. Only in recent weeks' reporting on cases like what I described shows a reality that unfortunately I do not believe the government is experiencing. To condemn these crimes in general terms without recognizing the concrete problem is to humiliate all those who are victims of the anti-Swedish violence. Can the government now recognise Swedish hostility as an existing and growing problem through Minister Per Bolund? Can Per Bolund tell us that you should always give a sharper penalty for crimes with hostile motives to mark the seriousness of the crimes?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-409	Madam President, I would like Let there be no suspicion here! Crime is crime. The crimes described and which we have seen examples of are terrible and unacceptable. We will do everything we can to combat and combat such crimes. Crime is crime, and terrible abuse is terrible abuse, no matter who is doing it and no matter who is the victim. We should never, as a society, accept that people in our country, regardless of their age and background, are exposed to this type of crime. Then we have to work to ensure that the police get the resources they need. We have to work so that we create security for our young people in the streets and squares. That is also the starting point of the government's work. We also need to work preventively to create opportunities for young people to get a place in society and get a job. They must feel that they have the opportunity to become part of sustainable social development. This is what we are focusing our work on. To divide it up and say that it's just about Swedishness, we don't think it's a way to solve any problem at all.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-414	Madam President, I would like The student unions at our country's higher education institutions are important. They are pushing to improve the quality of education, monitor the students' situation and ensure that universities prevent sexual harassment and mental illness. Unfortunately, many student unions are forced to rely on contributions from their own university. This entails a risk of dependence, which makes it difficult to review universities critically. I asked the Minister for Higher Education a written question and wondered what measures she was willing to take to improve the financial situation of student unions and to secure independence. Unfortunately, I experienced the Government's response as somewhat unengaged: A functioning student incapacitation is an important issue for us, and I will therefore follow developments in the field. Madam President, I would like I wonder, as the Government really does not think that more action is needed than simply following developments in the field in order to secure the financial conditions and independence of the student unions.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-418	Madam President, I would like The students demand an enormous amount of our commitment and also our respect. It is usually young people who spend a great deal of their commitment and time not just on acquiring higher education. They also run important education and social issues that benefit themselves and other higher education students. We have a statutory student influence in Sweden. This means that we have a very high student influence internationally. This is extremely important not least in order to maintain the quality of our education. I am fully aware of the financial situation of the student movement ever since we abolished the Student Union. It was during a bourgeois government where the Christian Democrats were involved. A promise was made that they would receive a different salary from what the student unions then received. I am fully aware that there is a desire to be able to do more with more money. I will follow this closely.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-423	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Sweden is a pioneer country when it comes to climate work. That is something we should be proud of, although we have a lot to do and need to speed up. We have a good basis for climate policy. We have municipalities, organisations and companies that go ahead. Leadership is important to succeed in climate change. Leadership is when Sweden takes the lead and shows that we can combine a fossil-free world with prosperity and business. It is also leadership when a city like Uppsala 2018 was named the world's best climate city. Hard work, tough goals and collaboration were behind that price. Cooperation is the foundation of the Swedish model. That is why the cooperation programmes that the government has set up, not least the cooperation programme for industrial change, are very important. My question is how the Minister views the work there but also the link at European level and the European Green Deal. How is the connection, and how is the work to be done?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-428	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marlene Burwick, for a very urgent question! In many respects, we may have come the longest in the world of industrialised countries with a more sustainable way of doing things. But we're far from goal. The Swedish people want us to be able to show that it is perfectly possible to combine a more sustainable way of living with a welfare society. This means that we have good conditions. Add to that that we have a progressive industry with an industry that wants to. Against this background, I believe that we are in a good position to be able to show that it is possible to become a fossil-free welfare country as the government has set itself the goal. The cooperation programmes we are talking about are about trying to get academia, business and the public with the government and parliament together to develop a roadmap with concrete measures to ensure that the climate problems are resolved. If Sweden can show it, our influence in the world can also increase because more people will want to follow. It creates more jobs and more economic growth.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-431	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans and is about medical education in Örebro. It is a very popular education where 135 were accepted last year by 4,397 applicants. It's hugely popular. The education has also been ranked as one of the best, and the hospital is also Sweden's best university hospital. Despite this, they do not receive ALF funds in the same way as all other universities that run medical education. This has been the case since the start of 2011.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-434	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I would like to be very careful to tell the honourable Member but also others interested that for the new places created for medical education at Örebro University the same applies as for other places of study around the country for medical education. On the other hand, there is a bias in how the ALF agreement has been negotiated in terms of medical education and the places at Örebro University. It is a negotiation that takes place, above all, within the framework of the ALF agreement. I assume that the parties involved will also take responsibility for this. At the end of the day, it is a budget issue. But it is a budget issue that is a long way back. Nowadays you put the same money and you have the same conditions.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-437	Madam President, I would like 240 of the 290 municipalities in the country have a housing shortage. The number of dwellings being built is decreasing. The number of homeless people is increasing. People who are homeless have changed to not only those who have a problem that makes them need the municipality's help, but there is a category that only lacks housing. This is a very worrying development. The crisis is real to these people. The solutions for each individual are incredibly expensive, insecure and short-term. We from the parliament and government should put this at the top of the agenda in order to agree on real reforms to solve the housing crisis. What is quite clear is that every single municipality cannot solve this, but coordination is needed. Is the Minister of Housing prepared to give more power and opportunity for regional planning over the country to try to solve the problem in larger areas? Is the Minister prepared to sit down and find real reforms outside the January agreement to resolve the housing crisis?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-440	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder forgets some of the background. More is being built now than it has been in decades in Sweden. Maybe it's worth recalling. This means that we are now closer to the goal that Boverket has set for how much needs to be built per year than we have done in a long time. On the other hand, there is no reason to be satisfied. There is now reason to take further steps forward. The Prime Minister, together with me, has invited the construction industry to wide-ranging talks already on Wednesday. We will just be discussing: how can we ensure that we build more and that we build for the needs that exist? It is a question of not only building for those who have the greatest income, but building for those who have the greatest needs and find it difficult to enter the housing market. There's not enough talk. We will also be active in giving municipalities greater tools and better opportunities to meet their housing responsibilities. There we are working to develop concrete measures. I hope that the Christian Democrats are involved and are working together for it.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-444	Madam President, I would like Many foreign-born women are outside the Swedish labour market, which is why the government has decided that they should be given priority. They do not get jobs to the same extent as the foreign-born men. They now amount to over 100,000. It is the largest group of unemployed in the country, reported the other day Kalla Fakta. After two years in Sweden, 41 per cent of men have got jobs. But for women, the figure is only 18%. Politics and the government must start making completely different demands on the Employment Service and the labour market to deliver equal support to women and men.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-447	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Member of Parliament for an important issue that is about women having independence and being able to control their own lives! It is therefore essential to have an establishment in the labour market. We haven't done well here. We see that women born abroad are less able to enter the labour market. We also see in the report that the government commissioned the Swedish Public Employment Service to produce that women receive less internships, less efforts of different kinds and less time with employment agencies. Of course we can't have that. Women and men should have the same opportunities in Sweden. That should be a matter of course. We need to continue to follow the issue and, of course, ensure that women and men have the same opportunities. We know that Arbetsförmedlingen is good at this in some places. Of course it is quite possible to give the same support, so this is an issue we will continue to work on. We also have other measures, such as the possibility of language training while on parental leave. This is an important issue, not least for women, when it comes to better equipping for the labour market.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-453	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Per Bolund. It also applies to the residential area, but a specific part of what has been mentioned earlier in Question Time. I would like to know how the Minister views the results of the so-called investment aid so far. It is, of course, a support that enables construction that gives tenants a cheaper rent than the level would have been in other constructions. That is something that I think is very important. I also wonder how the Minister views this support in the future. What impact does he think the investment support will have on municipalities and tenants?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Elin Lundgren! This is an incredibly important housing policy tool that is now in place, and I am very happy about that. It has been far too long of policies that have allowed market forces to prevail entirely on their own. As a result, too, it has not been built enough for those who have the greatest problems entering the housing market. Instead, there are now some 30,000 apartments, many of which are small rental apartments with a rent that is 15 to 20 percent below what it would have been if it had not been supported. In addition, they are energy efficient, which also saves on operating costs. I am pleased that we see that investment aid has been widely used throughout the country. It has been built in vulnerable areas where you get a chance to get some new blood and a positive development. It has been built out in the countryside, and it is being built in our big cities. We will now focus on building where the housing needs are greatest so that the investment support fulfils the best possible housing policy function.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-461	Madam President, I would like My question is of a general political nature and therefore goes to Minister Per Bolund. Some 7 500 young people today have been granted a residence permit under the so-called High School Act. These young people are now seeking an extension of their permits from the Finnish Immigration Service. The law gives unaccompanied minors who have been refused the opportunity to stay in Sweden if they are studying. They have the opportunity to stay in Sweden if they get a job after six months. This is a huge problem, where we see growing parallel communities with young people who have now left the Migration Agency's accommodation. The problems have been handed over to the municipalities. The secondary school law is inhumane, unfair and unreasonable. Why does the government not want to do a review?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-465	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm asks an important question. This is an urgent area that we need to work on. It is clear that these are young people who are now studying in high school and who acquire a competence that Sweden needs. They are on their way to the labour market and thus contribute to important tasks that would not otherwise have been done, for example in the field of welfare. They will also be able to help Sweden achieve a strong economy and prosperity in the future through their tax payments. I am proud that we are now seeing how the first begin to get a permanent residence permit and a security in Sweden long-term. What we are now focusing on is creating the best possible conditions for these young people to have a secure future in Sweden and for the support that is needed around them, that is, for the efforts of the municipalities. There we are now shooting at another 5 billion already in our amending budget, and we are prepared to spend more money in the coming years as well. But there is a need for joint action here. We are prepared to do our part, and I am sorry that the Moderates abdicate from their responsibilities.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-470	Madam President, I would like My question is also about housing policy. There are many such questions today. Housing needs in terms of affordable housing are still high in Sweden. During the four years of the previous term of office, twice as many dwellings were completed as in the previous eight moderate-led government years. A certain slowdown could be noted in 2019, although the construction over time is at historically high levels. However, the production of new housing needs to be improved if we are to meet the needs now and in the future. Based on the latest statistics on the number of dwellings started and completed – can the Minister of Housing describe the government's policy of reaching the number of dwellings needed per year according to Boverket?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-474	Madam President, I would like We see the results of an active housing policy, where we are now building more than we have done for many decades. This is welcome news, because it is clear that the long-term solution to the housing shortage is that we get a balance between needs and access. We have not had this for a very long time, and it has created much of the social problems and problems for the labour market that we are seeing today in Sweden. That's why I'm glad we've managed to get the building act up. Of course, we will make an effort to get it up even more. That is why the Prime Minister and I have invited the industry to talk about what the industry can do, what we can do and what the municipalities can do. We have now set aside large sums of money to support the construction of the type of apartments that do not come into being by allowing only commercial forces to prevail. These are small, energy-efficient rental apartments with a low rent level. But we are prepared to do more, and we now need to focus above all on not only building more but also building for the great needs that exist. So we can help the industry and the municipalities to ensure that there are out apartments that those with lower income can also afford to demand.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-479	Madam President, I would like The state-owned company Svevia has been placed at the centre of the media as the business organisation Företagarna has reviewed 285 procurement contracts at Trafikverket and seen that the company has a significantly lower price picture than the private companies that have also submitted tenders. Under the rules of the Competition Act, it is not allowed for the State to set too low prices, i.e. to make an under-pricing. It is called a restriction of competition n the public sales activities. Now the question has been raised that this could be exactly what is going on. In view of the legal issues that have now arisen, I wonder whether Minister Baylan intends to act to ensure that private companies in Sweden do not end up in unfair price competition.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-482	Madam President, I would like There is a clear regulatory framework for this. This applies to all companies, both state and municipal. If there are such suspicions, you have every opportunity in the world to file complaints with the Competition Authority. If there are suspicions of illegal state aid going on, there is every possibility in the world of making notifications to the European Commission. There is therefore a clear framework for this, Madam President. If you as a private operator, or for that matter some other operator, suspect that something is not going well, there are clear rules on this. They apply to everyone, regardless of their legal form.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-485	Madam President, I would like Our elderly deserve the best care that can be offered. They deserve our reverence for their life's work. Many have had heavy jobs and hard days during their lives, and many have bodies that ache so that they find it difficult to meet their needs for social existence and association. Loneliness can be burdensome and difficult. Mental ill-health and suicide rates are increasing, as in the rest of society, even among our elderly. Something in our society has broken. Our welfare has steadily deteriorated, and the systemic collapse of my party as long as the warning is here. Today, people are dying while waiting for care for prostate cancer, for example. It's not supposed to be like that. On the Government Office's website, you will find that the care we show our elderly is a sign of how strong our well-being is. So we can easily conclude that our welfare is now very weak. It is up to us decision-makers to fix it in our society that is broken and to ensure that our elderly have a good life with a good care, i.e. a welfare to be proud of. The Swedish Democrats are putting forward a number of proposals for improving the situation in the care of the elderly, one of our absolute priorities. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1, which proposes a new and absolutely necessary law on the rights of older people. Madam President, I would like At some point in life, the first contact with elderly care may be a fact. This may be an easier operation such as getting an alarm installed. Using an SIP, a single individual development plan, from the very first contact is important, not least in a preventive perspective as the needs for interventions increase by 25% in the first year alone. Unfortunately, this is not working satisfactorily today. That is why we need to take a national approach to this issue. Some 90 000 older people need a SIP, but only 1% of older people over 70 know that this right even exists. We also want to introduce the concept of elderly ombudsman as a close contact for the elderly, in order to curb, among other things, the growing loneliness. Madam President, I would like Being able to live with one's partner until the end of life, even if one of the parties needs special accommodation, is a right introduced through a so-called parbo guarantee. Unfortunately, it does not always work properly and needs to be reviewed. However, the Swedish Democrats want to take a step further and also introduce a so-called survivor's home guarantee. After cases in several municipalities, we have been painfully alerted to what can happen if the party who has been entitled to the place in a particular dwelling dies. The surviving party risks being put on the street when the common dwelling is assigned to someone else who needs it. Therefore, the survivor who cannot remain in his or her home should be offered another accommodation option without delay. Finally, I am obliged to mention again – I have talked about it in previous debates here in the speaker's chair and asked the Minister for Social Affairs about it – the major problems of language confusion among staff, newly recruited staff who cannot understand the elderly and other staff or make themselves understood among them. The government has made the big mistake of counting care for the elderly as a simple job. Working with people is never easy. Working with people who may suffer from illness is even more difficult. Of course, mastering this requires both solid training and personal fitness. The problem of non-language labour needs to be addressed, and it needs to be addressed quickly. Because, Madam President, surely we all think it is urgent for the staff to understand whether it is a cup of coffee we are in the mood for or whether it is pain relief we need?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-494	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have the great happiness that we are getting older, and those who are getting older are getting more and more. For sure, it is a good thing that more people are getting older in Sweden? In fact, the opposite would have been appalling. After a long working life, many pensioners can look forward to an amazing period in their lives. For those who have a healthy or at their side, their own health remains, friends and grandchildren offer life much after they have stopped working. For these prosperous elderly people, care needs to be focused primarily on preventing ill health and thus making it possible to maintain health for even longer. But there are also older ones who feel much worse — many in the body, others in the mind, and some both. The perceived health and life situation vary just as much among our elderly as among the rest of the population. Therefore, we must never see older people as a homogeneous group. Interventions, care and care must be given according to the individual's needs, not according to what fits the system or how we are organized. For me and the Center Party, the elderly are entitled to choose a supporting foundation. To choose who comes home to you, to choose a home, a health centre and so on – all these choices I am convinced that you do best yourself from your perspective. It is also choices that our elderly people want to be able to make. Therefore, I think that the work of creating healthy ageing and increasing the sense of empowerment and participation in society needs to get even more focus. As I said, the fact that we are getting more older is very positive, but it also poses major challenges for our common well-being. As a result of demographic and also technological developments, we are in great need of structural change. Even though those who are older today are becoming healthier and able to live independently more and more up to the age, we need to start long-term change work to meet the challenges and meet the needs. We cannot continue to do the same; we must dare to turn the perspective and the thoughts and question. I would therefore have liked to see more parties daring to put forward new proposals on how to create more efficient systems, better regulation and more coherent care for our elderly, as well as proposals on how to lay the foundations for prevention in a systematic way to strengthen the health of our elderly. It is not enough for us to focus on primary care and close care at the moment. It is not enough for us to strengthen the finances of municipalities and regions. These efforts are good and necessary, but we must dare to do more. That is why, Madam President, I would specifically like to talk about two of the Center Party's proposals, which are about having the courage to think again. Older people are a group that often end up between the chairs of care and care. In the case of older people, it is about health care legislation and social services law that both affect and regulate where, when and how elderly people receive care. In both cases, the laws have been subsequently adjusted to meet as much as possible the needs of older people rather than those based on needs. The fact that we have two different legislations that regulate care for the elderly and care for the elderly creates problems both for the elderly and for those who perform care and care. Madam President, let me give a real example. A woman has suffered a stroke. She is rehabilitated for a long time and is really struggling to regain her functions. Unfortunately, she does not regain full function in her left arm. The woman now finds herself in a situation where she needs support and help at home. She needs help cutting her nails. It may seem like a simple problem to solve. But the nail clipping on the left hand is classified as an effort under health care legislation. The nail clipping on the right hand is classified as a measure under the Social Services Act. So now health care personnel are going to cut the nails on one hand and social services staff are going to cut the nails on the other hand. There are different staff who come home to the woman at different times. It is about different people, different legislation and documentation in two different systems. Is that really reasonable? To bridge once and for all the gap between these two laws, the Center Party wants to investigate an older law that can regulate the home care currently provided under the health care legislation and the personal care provided under the Social Services Act. With a common law, we could make it easier for municipalities to work more coherently between home care and home care. It could also mean that we increase attractiveness and that you can work at the top of your skills in a more multi-professional team. The second proposal I want to talk about concerns prevention. In particular, we need to strengthen the mental health of older people. Sweden has unique health care systems, such as child health care, school health care and occupational health care. All of them have laid the foundations for our public health and because we have the world's lowest maternal and infant mortality. Today there is plenty of knowledge about how the health of older people can be promoted. But it is an area where there is a lack of coordination. In order to make the best use of society's common resources, the Center Party wants to introduce an older health care programme with preventive home visits for the elderly. Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with all the proposals made by the Center Party, but for time to come, I only ask for reservation 1 to investigate an older team.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-509	Madam President, I would like The left focuses on an elderly care that is equal and dignified. Eight out of ten of the country's municipalities are planning cuts in care for the elderly, especially in the case of staff. It was therefore a good thing that the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates negotiated more money for the welfare, and that the government eventually brought out more money. It was still a little money. But more money is needed for welfare. Madam President, I would like We're facing a path. Should it be tax cuts and subsidies such as RUT or spending on welfare? We will not be able to have both, unless we move forward into a parallel society. The Left Party believes that we should finish that journey. That's where all the losers go. Growth analysis, which is an authority, has carried out a study in which it is estimated that every new RUT job converted into full-time jobs costs the state and taxpayers about SEK 2 million per position – you get it! This corresponds to three to four new jobs that could be used in welfare. I think you can think about that. Madam President, I would like The Left wants to develop the care of the elderly in the future and to invest in increasing staff density and training in the care of the elderly. We also want to develop modern and well-functioning accommodation, care and care, good food and free security alarms. Anyone who lives a long life in care for the elderly should receive that care. There should also be leisure activities and plenty of activities. It is a new generation that is marching into the care of the elderly now, 40-talists and soon even 50-talists. Then it will be to listen to both Thåström and Stones. I think that generation will be a little more angry than the generation now in care for the elderly. It's a little hopeful. Madam President, I would like Staff is the basis for good, dignified and safe care for the elderly. It is the staff who build care for the elderly. Good staffing is a prerequisite for staff to have time to talk to the elderly and do a good job, not just run in and out. Swedish Democrats! You say you protect the staff. You want permanent full-time jobs. But when you are allowed to rule, as in Sölvesborg, something else happens. You're letting a notorious care group into the care of the elderly. Then full-time services disappear. Instead, those employed by the company receive part-time jobs of 75%, on which it is impossible to live. You are therefore closing down a well-functioning dementia home so that the company that is asked for a sufficient basis to establish itself. There's something called walk the talk. This means that what I say in this speaker's seat should also be lived by my party. We think that is important. But I believe that in all the decisions that the Swedish Democrats take, there is always a gang that they protect. It is not the elderly, but the companies that make a profit from running retirement homes. I say as Pep Persson: There is always false mathematics over you. Madam President, I would like Since the beginning of the 21st century, there has been a redistribution from special housing to home interventions. The number of people living in special housing has fallen drastically. According to Statistics Sweden, people aged 80 and over will be 255 000 more in 2028 than today. That's a 50% increase. This also means increased pressure on the particular residents, not a small number of places. Madam President, I would like The number of retirement homes has decreased. Instead, the municipalities have invested in more people living at home and providing home help. More and more people are being refused their applications for special accommodation. In 2018, a total of 116 municipalities considered that they had a deficit of special housing arrangements for the elderly. The Left Party considers this development to be detrimental to the quality of care for the elderly. It addresses the needs of older people and limits their ability to influence and choose. Freedom of choice is something we often talk about in this House, Madam President. Older people should be able to live at home as long as they want to, but when the need for support increases and they want to move, there must be the opportunity to do so. I therefore request the approval of reservation 8. The Left wants to give the government the task of better meeting older people's right to special housing. The loneliness of the elderly is too many heavy to bear. You lose your partner and friends and can become very lonely, especially if you are not allowed to move from your little one on the eighth floor. As it has become more difficult for older people for a long time to find accommodation, we must ensure that the increase in involuntary loneliness is reduced. Right now it's increasing. It is about getting people started in social activities that are not linked to the accommodation. Reducing the loneliness of the elderly will be a central task for us in this room, but also for those who are out there in the municipalities and in civil society. The Left wants an appropriate authority to be given the task of reviewing the conditions for reducing loneliness among the elderly. Madam President, I would like Today, nurses are missing. We need to train 16 000 nurses a year, instead of today's 4 000. Then we must be able to offer a good working environment, increased staff density and full-time services. Today, seven out of ten nurses in the care of the elderly feel that the staffing is inadequate. That's a very high percentage. In the Left Party Budget Movement there are proposals for major initiatives focusing on the training of nurses and other staff. A competence plan is needed to increase the number of nurses who can work in the care of the elderly. How life as an elderly person becomes is about a lot, including health, class and economics. One thing the Left Party will push and fight for. It is equal care for the elderly that benefits the many, not the few.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-522	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the attention given by the Left Party to the Swedish Democrats. Sölvesborg is a municipality in which the Swedish Democrats rule. That's right. The politicians in Sölvesborg, however, are not here in the Swedish parliament and cannot answer for themselves. On the other hand, I believe that Louise Erixon, who is KSO there, will respond in other contexts to the criticism that the honourable Member makes. When it comes to staff policy, it is well known that the Swedish Democrats want to remove the shared tours, which most of the staff do not want. This has been the subject of another party, a ruling party, for many years, but nothing has happened so far. In our budget, unlike the governing parties, we have invested in this so that it can be implemented. The honourable Member says to the elderly that we Swedish democrats do not care about them. This statement cannot be more wrong, Madam President, and our entire electorate knows that this is the case, that is, that the honourable Member is wrong.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-526	Madam President, I would like Sölvesborg has become widely known, and it is Sweden's most visible display window, one might say, for the policy they have in Sweden. For me, it is important that the party that here in Parliament talks about full time and the importance of a good staff policy at the same time does exactly the opposite in a municipality. There you have part-time jobs of 75 per cent. I find this remarkable. I find it interesting to look at this, in the same way as one looks at the Stockholm region and health care, for example. It is interesting to look at what is happening in the municipality where they really are in control. The Swedish Democrats have closed a functioning dementia housing there. Instead, you should have a completely private accommodation. You can think about what happens in real life when you get to control and set. With regard to the second question, Madam President, I believe that the Swedish Democrats always press in this Chamber, but also in other Chambers, the button that benefits the business community, that is, those who own the private carers. It always happens when they press the button. The Swedish Democrats become the business community's best friend, not the elderly's. That's what I'm suggesting. You can say one thing and then do something completely different. I believe that many in the Swedish Democrats' electorate absolutely believe, Madam President, that they represent the small person. But when they don't, I think we should highlight it.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-531	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member tells us that Sölvesborg is our shop window. We are well aware that this municipality has been designated by the media. However, there is a big difference between governing a municipality and governing the whole kingdom from the Riksdag. However, I would like to thank the honourable Member once again for his attention and for allowing us to talk even more about our policy, including the policy of the elderly – not Sölvesborg – which is being debated today. In my last post, I mentioned split tours. I'm sure it's more than I've read the report. Who's going to work in the elderly care of the future? There is a comparison between the Nordic countries and how you want to work. It clearly shows that Sweden stands out in such a way that many of the staff in our elderly care today do not actually want to work there. Why is this? Unlike other Nordic countries, we have shared tours and also shift work. It is mainly these two things that make you want to end your employment and go somewhere else. I think it is very important that we listen and take note of this. This has not been done so far in this House. As far as I am concerned, we are the only party to finance the proposal to remove shared tours. The honourable Member says we are in favour of business. Yes, absolutely, of course we are. But we also think that our elderly are incredibly important, and our electorate knows that very well.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-535	Madam President, I would like It is always important and interesting to follow the policies pursued in the municipalities where the respective parties have a superior advantage and rule in the majority, I think. Therefore, it is interesting to look at Sölvesborg. As far as staff are concerned, we in the Left Party have a large package in our budget bill. It is about upgrading those who work in home care, which we think is a super important issue. We want all employees in home care and care for the elderly to have the opportunity for full-time work, good wages, skills development and together – collectively – to be able to manage their workplaces. It's a dream scenario, but we know it doesn't look like it today. It is therefore important, I believe, that the policy that is being laid down at national level also seeks to follow up on municipal matters so that they do not do exactly the opposite. If you stand here and talk about that there should not be part-time services and yet it runs in the municipalities where you run it will be very distorted. Then you say one thing here and something else there. I do not think that, Madam President, is particularly fair to the voters. I think it is a good thing that we are following up what the Swedish Democrats are doing, and not only in your field of immigration, but also in your policy of substance. It's not known everywhere what you stand for. We were therefore going to begin to look more closely at your very policy on the matter. We already know the racists.
i-WFbsQuqsXBrxScCD9zCR4T	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9 in paragraph 7. Liberal policy aims to give people the opportunity to live their lives in freedom as long as they do not trample on the freedom of another. We want to be obstacles, and this applies, of course, also to older people's policies. We have an older program for year-rich people. I am, by the way, pleased that more people have started to use the word, which will now be included in the Swedish Academy's glossary, which I am pleased to hear. Well, our policy in this area ranges from the opportunities of year-long working life to choosing the way you want it to be during the last days of life. The report contains motions which are only part of this policy. When I listen to the debate, I hear that we all think that year-rich people should be well off and get the care and care they need. We only see differently on the road to this goal and on what needs to be done to make them feel good. There is, among other things, a exercise about an older team. It's a mission Margareta Winberg has had to investigate. She will present this within six months. Now that I am in charge of this with a permanent care contact in the home service and is in the Garrison's long corridors, I see how many investigations are underway in this area. Many of you here have been in on them, and we will get results. I have to get in touch with the various investigations. Both Anna Nergård's and Margareta Winberg's investigations and Peter Larsson's investigation into medical technology as well as those responsible for education and so on are concerned with different parts of the problems that you raise. These studies will be presented within the next year. What I see as most important now – I may have said it earlier here – is that at the Ministry of Social Affairs you have a group of resources that can go through all the suggestions to sew it all together. For example, the problem of a person's coming home to a year - old person who needs medical care and does one thing and then home - care staff will come and do something else. I thought this nail clipping thing was a great example of how crazy it could be. If you take advantage of the experience of the SIP investigation that we ourselves did in the Social Affairs Committee and wisely organise it here so that social services cooperate with the health services with nursing skills on both sides, then a person can actually meet two needs instead of two people – two needs. I therefore believe that there is much to be gained for the individual and also for the staff, because it will be more fun to work like that. It will also save money. After all, we are constantly complaining about the lack of financial resources, but if we make wise decisions in this House in the future, it will be able to solve many problems. In our reservation, we have discussed the evaluation of shelters. There are about 100 municipalities that have not invested in this form of housing. The study carried out on Kungsholmen and now has almost 15 years on the neck showed that shelters or equivalents can delay or even completely remove the need for care housing. But that study is now old, and we think this should be evaluated. Corresponding follow-up applies to couple housing. I have a question, and it is up to the committee to decide for itself. Maybe we should do our own investigation into these living forms as we did when it came to SIP? Maybe it'll go faster if we do it. That is just a thought; we have not discussed it in committee. Loneliness is a serious problem that has been raised. I think it is so good that pensioners' organisations, the City Mission and others are now engaged in activities, and I hope that financial resources will continue to be invested in these non-profit-making organisations. A few weeks ago I visited the City Mission, where one storytelling group after another is formed and creates new social networks.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-550	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs to be approved in the report. A lot of wise women have been up before me talking. As a man, I will now try to take the role and talk about care for the elderly. When we become year-rich, which we all become once, what life do we want? First of all, we want to be healthy and be able to take that tour in the forest or walk with the neighbor. We may want to swim or go to gym some day or a few days a week and have a social network of good friends. Part of getting older can be the lack of coherence and community. You no longer have the work as a natural meeting place. Children and grandchildren may have settled far from you. You feel missed but do not want to burden your loved ones so that they feel guilty for not visiting. We therefore have a different society today. Care for the elderly needs to take a broader approach, partly because we are getting healthier and need stimulation far up in life, partly because many experience great loneliness, which many have experienced. Many live their last years without being in demand. This is not worthy. It is therefore time for us to focus on eradicating loneliness among the elderly. No one should have to sit alone if you want company. When children and relatives are unable to attend, society should enter and offer more accommodations and meeting points, where you can avoid loneliness and have the opportunity to socialize and be activated as much as you wish. That is why I am proud that the government and its partner parties, the Liberals and the Center Party, have made a special effort in this year's budget to combat loneliness. It is, on the one hand, a continuation of special investment support that provides the opportunity to build more shelters and special accommodations – it is still a long way to go, as many people are doing, but we still do this – and, on the other hand, special support for associations to motivate older people to physical activity. These are good efforts that lead a bit along the way in combating loneliness. Madam President, I would like We know that by 2035, the 80-year-old group is expected to increase by 76% – from about half a million people to nearly 900,000 people, according to my figures. As many have done, it is therefore necessary to expand and develop care for the elderly in order to cope with the current level of care. Some people are, as I said, about creating more shelters and accommodations at all. Above all, however, it is very important that more people train and have the right skills to be able to work in elderly care. We need to invest in more full-time jobs. Unfortunately, we have a long way to go on the full-time journey, although many municipalities have worked well on the issue. We're not there yet. The work environment, the degree of employment and access to skills development are crucial to the satisfaction of their work, but also the feeling of being able to influence their work is important. There's still a lot of work to be done here. The government is therefore redesigning the high school nursing program to attract more young people to education. Among other things, a completed training course must give corresponding assistant identification. Anyone who attends a nursing programme should feel in demand in the labour market. They should feel that there is a full-time job with schedules that allow you to have a working life alongside the job. The fact that the staff are still doing a good job is evident when we look at the National Board of Health and Welfare's evaluations. In the 2019 survey, over 95 percent of older people are satisfied with care for the elderly and staff. However, as some have done, many feel that the staff do not always have time for their tasks. Seventy-seven percent are satisfied with the work done, so there's still a bit to go. The work situation of the staff is therefore something that municipalities need to review. The government has made some efforts. There is still much to be done, but during the last term of office we spent over SEK 7 billion to strengthen the care of the elderly, and 5,000 new employees could be employed in welfare and care for the elderly. We are now moving forward with general state grants to municipalities and, in addition to the general investments, make a special investment of 1 billion for elderly care, which among other things goes to an increased building of housing and to counteract loneliness, which I have been into. The Government also invests resources in the budget to develop working methods in the day-to-day work. One initiative is to raise skills in digital tools. A study will be presented shortly, the purpose of which is to increase the use of welfare technology. It was up in committee not long ago. The technology should also be able to relieve the staff at work. The fact that more older people get dementia is also tough for relatives and staff. Staff training is needed to meet these needs. In the 2020 budget, municipalities receive money for this. Another preventive measure, which has been discussed several times, is to deploy help at the right time and without a major investigation of the needs. This is why we introduced in 2018 that a simplified aid assessment should make it easier to get home help. As Barbro Westerholm and several others have discussed, the government is also looking at the possibility of offering a permanent care contact in the home care service. When you get older, you should feel safe in knowing who to turn to. In a secure and strong society, everyone who needs a place in a retirement home should be able to get it. Everyone should know that they get the help and support they need. We all agree on that, although the way there is different. We must continue to invest in both quality and quantity. More retirement homes need to be built. The staff should feel like they're doing a good job. We will take advantage of the opportunities offered by technological developments. Above all, a modern care for the elderly will counteract the loneliness of the elderly.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-572	Madam President, I would like Mats Wiking talked about the importance of better care for the elderly and so on. Now we see that seven out of ten municipalities will make staff cuts in the care of the elderly. Doesn't it testify that we need more money for welfare? That is my first question, Madam President. My second question concerns the development of private retirement homes. With the introduction of LOV, the Freedom of Choice Act, there are now many private providers of retirement homes within Swedish elderly care. They may offer additional services in addition to those assessed for assistance, which are those covered by RUT. In larger towns such as Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö you can see that there are more and more residents with very high income and thus many private retirement homes where the private companies explicitly address the group, which is expected to demand a gold-lined existence through our scrapped tax money. This requires co-financing through the RUT grant. In addition, other large groups within the pensioner collective are excluded from these accommodations.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-575	Madam President, I would like More money for welfare is extremely important. We have added 5 billion extra, as Karin Rågsjö certainly knows, but there is certainly a need for more efforts in the coming years. As I mentioned in my speech, we spent quite a lot of resources on the welfare of the last parliamentary term as well. So we can say that we are investing more in care for the elderly, but we can of course do more. As far as private and public alternatives are concerned, Madam President, it goes without saying that the conditions should be the same so that you cannot choose the gold edge by having extra money in your wallet.
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-577	Madam President, I would like I am rather concerned about the social democrats' budgetary efforts on welfare. We secured 2 billion through the negotiations we had and almost forced the government, together with the Centers and Liberals, to produce even more money. But we are, I think, facing a crossroads. If taxes are reduced even further and RUT subsidies are developed even more, we will have problems with welfare. One RUT service costs 2 million. It is not the left party's own little agency that has investigated this, but it is an authority. And we know, Madam President, that for 2 million people you could have 3 to 4 trained people in care for the elderly. Won't this be distorted? Then, Madam President, I have to ask Mats Wiking whether there is really nothing more we can do about the parallel society that is emerging in the care of the elderly. We see large, fine private accommodations that we taxpayers subsidise. As a less well-off pensioner, you opt out of that type of accommodation. Is it not a dangerous development when we have a parallel society that becomes so clear?
i-b6011dbbf2f362fd-580	Madam President, I would like The parliamentary situation is such that we have to compromise quite a bit. We would not want to reduce taxes, which we have now agreed to do, but we would like to spend more money on welfare. However, we are in such a parliamentary situation that we have cooperation between four parties, and we need to find solutions that everyone can agree on. But, of course, we would like to spend even more money on welfare. When it comes to the piece of accommodation that I was in before, it is clear that if we notice that there is going to be great injustices between different forms of housing, private and public, I think most parties agree that we should get the maximum out of tax money and that there should not be a difference between people and people.
