i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-0	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether Sweden in the UN and other international bodies intend to pursue a strong policy of women's and children's rights and to persuade those countries that do not respect these rights to take concrete action in their national legislation so that it complies with international law on women's and children's rights. Mr Kakabaveh has also asked me whether Sweden will work towards the creation in the UN of a committee or Commission with legal competence and competence in the field of human rights that maps the countries whose national legislation is contrary to children's and women's rights. Furthermore, Kakabaveh has asked what strong efforts Sweden intends to make in defending the elementary rights of hundreds of millions of girls and women. Women's and girls' rights are under severe pressure globally. Marginalisation of women and girls also often increases when challenges arise, such as when humanitarian crises strike or when the democratic space shrinks. Sweden therefore keeps changing up feminist foreign policy. Sweden promotes gender equality and the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls in all contexts and forums. It is essential to highlight the individual as a bearer of rights, to combat discriminatory legislation and behaviour, and to reach those most affected by inequality. We are using this year's jubilees for the global gender equality work to push the rights agenda further. The work is done nationally, bilaterally, regionally and globally, through embassies and in cooperation and alliance building with countries, international organisations, women's legal practitioners and other partners. Development cooperation is a key tool, including the Global Gender Equality Strategy and women's and girls' rights. Sweden's active involvement in the UN is central. The same applies to the EU, where we are working to further strengthen the Union's global role in gender equality. An important part of the UN system of human rights is the Convention Committees, which are made up of independent experts and which follow up, review and make recommendations to the States Parties on the implementation of their commitments under various UN Conventions on Human Rights. There are convention committees for all the core UN conventions, including the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, known as Cedaw, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Individuals may make individual complaints about human rights violations to the committees. It is essential that the integrity and independence of the Convention Committees be safeguarded. One of the instruments available to the UN Human Rights Council is the universal review mechanism Universal Periodic Review, which examines the human rights situation in all UN Member States. All Member States have the possibility to participate when other countries are examined. The mechanism allows the Human Rights Council to highlight the human rights situation in countries that have sought to avoid other scrutiny. Sweden actively participates in UPR and makes recommendations to countries, often concerning women's and girls' rights. This applies to like-minded countries as well as countries with significant deficiencies in terms of MRs. The mechanisms contribute to the identification of the shortcomings of different countries in respect of compliance with MRs and to a large extent carry out the type of work requested by Kakabaverh. The government therefore does not intend to promote the establishment of additional mechanisms for this, but rather intends to work to strengthen existing structures for everyone's enjoyment of MRs throughout the world. The feminist foreign policy means that we are systematically trying to break structural discrimination. This includes our active work against all types of discriminatory legislation. We continue to defend and pursue the full enjoyment of sexual and reproductive health and rights by all women and girls. The work involves influencing norms in collaboration with strategically placed actors. Particular focus is placed on combating child and forced marriages. Sweden works widely against gender-based violence against women and girls, including focusing on root causes, prevention, accountability and the role of boys and men. We are committed to gender equality in prevention of conflict, radicalisation and violent extremism, as well as in humanitarian efforts. Sweden's current work also focuses on emphasising the gender perspective in the management of covid-19. Women dominate health care in the world but often lack security themselves because they have lower wages, more precarious jobs and worse insurance cover than men. Moreover, they are at greater risk of domestic violence, which is increasing in crisis. We are now pursuing these issues at all levels and in relation to countries and organisations through our support to the UN system, through work on boards and banks and through Sida's broad work and support to women's rights organisations. The Government has previously explained the work on feminist foreign policy, including in the letter 2019/ 20:17. Policies are needed and deliver results. More and more countries are following, and international organisations and institutes are showing great interest. As long as global inequality and pressure on women's and girls' rights persist, we continue to pursue a feminist foreign policy with full force throughout the world.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-19	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for an ambitious account of Sweden's efforts to promote gender equality in the world. I certainly do not doubt the ambition of Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to work at different levels and through different mechanisms for women's rights in the UN and the EU and through aid and our ambassadors around the world. But I asked in my interpellation about a Commission that would map countries that are, for example, in the UN – many of them are UN states that have themselves signed the UN Declaration. They violate the UN Declaration of Human Rights. I know that some countries, such as Sudan, Iran, South Sudan and Somalia, have not signed Cedaw, but many other countries have done so. Saudi Arabia even sits – or has been – on the UN Human Rights Council and has been one of the convening countries. It is appalling that in these countries there is also gender apartheid in legislation. According to UNICEF, there are 12 million children's marriages each year, and the number will increase – the number of the dark is high. Children under the age of 18 are married away. There are 650 million women under 18 who have been married away. In Pakistan, Afghanistan, Yemen and many other countries there are many cases where 8-, 9- and 13-year-olds have bled and died on the so-called wedding night, but I choose to call it rape night. These countries will be punished. There's got to be some kind of penalty mechanism. Unfortunately, neither Cedaw nor other mechanisms have been put in place to examine whether Member States' legislation complies with international recommendations on human rights, LGBTQ, women's rights and the right to abortion. In itself, even the United States is one of the countries that did not sign Cedaw, for example, so it is not just Saudi Arabia. Unfortunately, today many repressive men and states stand in the way of peace and security and women's and children's rights. I believe that countries such as Sweden, which is a feminist country, and other like-minded, democratic countries should dare to say: This is not right. We have tried this, but there must be other mechanisms to investigate. Gender apartheid regimes should not sit on the same terms in organisations of the international community. UNICEF estimates that there will be nearly 500 million children's marriages — not to mention the hundreds of millions of girls who are sexually stifled in many of these lands. You get so upset that this is happening.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-26	Madam President, I would like I fully share Amineh Kakabaveh's outrage at what is happening. On the other hand, I do not share the view that those countries which violate equality, which allow child marriage, and so on, should not be included in the UN Human Rights Council, for this is precisely where we have both periodic control of what is happening and, in addition, it deals with it directly in the entire international community. That is what, for example, means that although Saudi Arabia still commits human rights violations, there has been a huge change to the positive in terms of gender equality. Many of the women I met when I visited Saudi Arabia a month ago called it a revolution. There has not been much written about it in Sweden, but that is actually what has happened. Then, however, there is a great deal of human rights violations that we must continue to condemn. You can always do more and wish that you did more, but there is no country that has done more for global gender equality than Sweden. Nevertheless, I think that we should put it a little bit in this context. With regard to our feminist foreign policy, which was first rather questioned, country after country is now following. France, Canada, Luxembourg, Mexico and most recently Spain have said that they have a feminist foreign policy in some form. I think it is very important to pursue feminist foreign policy, including for the very reasons mentioned by Amineh Kakabaverh, but also to be active in the Human Rights Council and to retain those countries that violate human rights in the Council, so that they can receive legitimate criticism from other countries in the Council. We work especially for women in vulnerable situations, such as the groups mentioned by Amineh Kakabaveh, but also women and girls who are victims of human trafficking. We do this, for example, by trying to disseminate information about the Swedish sex purchase legislation and by diplomatic offensive against human trafficking. I therefore believe that the government, Members of Parliament and NGOs can jointly carry out this work in order to achieve a better situation for women and girls around the world.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I did not say that these countries should not sit in the control mechanisms of the Human Rights Council, the UN and so on, but I said that they should not sit there on the same terms. They're supposed to sit there, but they're supposed to get criticism until they've changed their own legislation. Sweden with several like-minded countries should not sit with Saudi Arabia and a number of other gender apartheid countries and believe that they will listen to us. They don't even listen to their own people. They kill, they execute and they rape in prisons. One of the countries that Sweden and the EU support, and which is also a candidate for becoming one of the EU Member States, is Turkey. Mr Erdo came up with a proposal that the victim of a rapist who has committed a crime against a child should be married to the rapist. It is because of the Corona crisis that this debate has been closed. It has been very hot in the past, and there have been many demonstrations. This is the case in many of the countries in which we have faith. It is not the countries that are wrong, but the repressive regimes. There are lots of men sitting there in charge and totally ignoring our feminist agenda. I want Sweden to be even more progressive on these issues. I myself have been to many countries, particularly Latin America, and have met ambassadors, and there is indeed a feminist foreign policy, which is to be welcomed. However, it is important that these issues are raised higher in the EU, for example. If more EU countries than Sweden in the UN pursue the same objective, something positive will certainly happen, at least in these countries. Why should they participate on the same terms and have the same right to vote as we do on these issues? They don't do anything. They haven't even implemented Cedaw. Beijing Platform for Action turns 25 this year. It is a very important year for gender equality both in Sweden and in other parts of the world. We must do something, especially in times of crisis, when the covid-19 pandemic hits the poorest and most vulnerable. Violence is increasing, and many parents cannot afford to support their children, so the children are married away to rich and older men in those countries. And the laws are on the men's side. You have to make sure that this changes, so my question is: Will Sweden press on at the 25th anniversary, when there will be an evaluation in all countries? Will we say that we are against child marriage and forced marriage?
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-37	Madam President, I would like I can assure Amineh Kakabaveh that we will certainly do so, as we have been doing for many years now. We will continue to press for child marriage, for inequality between women and men and, above all, for increased violence and the problem of rape, sex purchases and prostitution that exist all over the world. There should be no doubt that Sweden will be in the front line when it comes to protesting against this. I also think it is important, as Amineh Kakabaveh mentioned, to see that women and girls suffer differently from covid-19 and the Corona crisis. I think that we need to pay close attention to this and to the fact that inequality in the world can have vital consequences. We are now seeing the increase in men's violence against women when it is quarantined and all possible, and that the health care system is heavily burdened in many places. We know that 70% of all employees in health care and the social sector in the world are women. Women have a more economically vulnerable situation. They have poor jobs and poor wages. Thus, the deep economic crisis that follows in the wake of the pandemic hits women harder. That is why it is so important that the UN, the EU, the World Bank and several others take the gender perspective with them in the face of the Corona. I was therefore pleased yesterday when I spoke to the Vice-President of UN Women, Åsa Regnér, who told me that UN Women will now be involved in the work that the UN is doing on how to meet the Corona crisis. We are well positioned to pursue these issues because we are one of the largest donors and partners for UN Women but also for UNICEF and United Nations World Food Programme. As girls are disadvantaged disproportionately because of their age and gender, it is essential to promote girls' equal rights to education but also to SRHR, i.e. sexual and health rights, and protection against violence and discrimination. This is being put under pressure now that the world's resources are being used to fight the virus. In humanitarian efforts, we must not lose sight of the gender perspective and the particular attention paid to the situation of women and girls.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-43	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. As I previously raised, there are, based on the position that Sweden has, expectations both among us members and women's rights activists and among many women in the world. I have digital contact with many women in Turkey, Kurdistan, Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Colombia and many other parts of the world. They have expectations of Sweden, and so do I. There are always expectations of Sweden, but with a feminist foreign policy is expected even more. Expectations sometimes imply positive criticism, but that does not mean that one is negative to the existence of a feminist foreign policy. I mean, the 140 million girls in the world who, according to UNICEF, need a voice. If this voice is not their own countries, it should be Sweden and other countries. Unfortunately, most genital mutilations occur in many African countries. UNICEF also estimates that child marriages will increase from 275 million to 465 million by 2050. This is untenable, and that is why we must be one vote. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Will Sweden, after the Corona has gone to bed, invite the countries of the world to an international conference here in Sweden to raise women?
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-47	Madam President, I would like When we started the feminist foreign policy about six years ago, we had an idea of having worldwide conferences. We had the first one in Sweden. It was a great success. Over 800 women from all over the world came. There were many interesting workshops on how we together and globally can fight against inequality and for women's and girls' rights. Now, however, the baton continues. Both in Mexico and in France, there will be major global confensions. I think it is perhaps even more important to make sure that it is not only Sweden that runs the feminist foreign policy but also countries from the south, for example, take the baton so that it is not only us here in Sweden and the Nordic region who are working on these issues. Unfortunately, the two major conferences in Mexico and France have now been postponed because of the Corona. They would have been held in May and July, but I assume that they will be held at a later date when the pandemic has subsided. Then Sweden will be in the front line and run our feminist foreign policy. This is needed globally, not only in Sweden.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-50	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me what the Swedish Government, which has been strongly committed to the peace process in Colombia, intends to do to speed up the implementation of the commitments made by the parties to the conflict in the 2016 peace agreement, to strengthen the security of peace, human rights and women's rights activists who are fighting for the rights of indigenous peoples and to work to ensure that the companies which, through substandard legal processes, or no legal processes at all, have subserviented the land properties of indigenous peoples are returned to the original ownership – indigenous peoples of Colombia – and whether I intend to take any initiatives within the government's remit to prevent Swedish pension funds from investing in human and environmental degradation activities in various parts of the world, for example in Colombia. I would like to begin by sharing the questioner's concern for human rights defenders in Colombia. We have received several reports of an increase in threats and violence, especially against female human rights defenders. The internal armed conflict has marked developments in Colombia for five decades and left deep traces in society. However, the country has undergone positive developments in many respects and is now more peaceful than a decade ago, largely thanks to the peace negotiations with Farc and the 2016 peace agreement. If the questioner mentions, Sweden has a strong commitment to supporting sustainable peaceful development in Colombia. Sweden was granted three distinct responsibilities in the peace agreement: equality, victims' rights and missing persons. In addition, we support the Colombian Government's work on the reintegration of former guerrillas with a particular focus on women and support the implementation of the peace agreement as a whole. Sweden is also the only country to contribute to all four peace funds: the United Nations, the EU, the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank's respective funds. In Colombia, Swedish aid contributes to the implementation of the law on victims' rights and the restoration of land property, the updating of a landowner's register and the implementation of territorial development plans. With the advice of the Swedish Lantmäteriet, the World Bank's Peace Fund has contributed to the development of a large number of land registers. The government assumes that all Swedish companies and investors respect human rights, both in S verige and in other countries in which they operate. The Government's letter Policy for Sustainable Business, which includes human rights issues, sets out the Government's expectations of companies' sustainability efforts and recommendations on how the work should be carried out. Responsibility for the AP funds lies under the Ministry of Finance and Minister Per Bolund. Since 1 January 2019, higher demands have been made by law on First – Fourth AP Funds to act exemplary from a sustainability perspective. AP funds will invest our pension money responsibly, which also means that this will be done in line with the international conventions that Sweden has signed. The evaluation of AP Funds' activities until 2019, to be submitted to the Riksdag by 1 June 2020, will include an in-depth analysis of AP Funds' work with sustainable investments.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-56	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for an ambitious and solid answer. I was on a study trip at the end of 2019 and met a number of international organisations and our own human rights activists, Diakonia, the Swedish peace movement, the Swedish Embassy and the ambassador. Everyone agrees that peace must become a reality and that we must help each other to implement the peace process. The government shares my concern about human rights defenders. That's good. We know that this is true and welcome the fact that the Swedish Embassy, together with other embassies and the UN, is committed to publicly demonstrating its support for threatened human rights defenders. For example, Per Anger winner 2015, Islena Rey Rodríguez, received serious threats. It also did a lot of other human rights defenders – most women. I would like to hear more about what the government is doing in concrete terms, in addition to the various important support, for example, for CSOs, also bilaterally at high level with their EU allies and others to put this issue higher on the agenda. For example, in the EU Guidelines on Human Rights Defenders there are a number of concrete proposals and recommendations on what EU delegations, which include embassies such as the Swedish one, should do at all different levels within the host country's machinery – in this case Colombia – and together with other actors, other EU countries and UN agencies. Based on the extremely serious situation of human rights defenders and the local communities in which they operate, which also appear to deteriorate in 2020, a common agenda is needed. What has the government done to meet the obligations defined in the EU declaration? Madam President, I would like Joint statements are needed here. The situation must not be hidden either behind the peace agreement – everyone lives in the hope that the agreement will proceed according to plan, and one does not want to criticise the government – or the Corona virus, which we now see is in danger of crowding out any other reporting. We now see that the Corona virus in many countries is already helping to undermine democracy even more. In the light of the above, we also see it as urgent that Sweden highlights António Guterres' call for a ceasefire in all countries with ongoing conflicts. This is highly topical in Colombia and directly linked to the ongoing covid-19 pandemic and its particular serious consequences for already vulnerable groups. According to an article in The Guardian, death squads are using the Corona virus lockdown to kill human rights defenders. According to the answer, the government assumes that all Swedish companies and investors respect human rights. I would like to hear what the government is doing to ensure that human rights are respected in Colombia.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-65	Madam President, I would like Three and a half years after the signing of the peace agreement, we note that it will take time to build a sustainable and comprehensive peace in Colombia. Sweden is working intensively to facilitate and accelerate peace building in various ways. Respect for human rights is a central part of Swedish commitment. It is a position that we emphasise in dialogue with Colombian representatives, in the UN, in the EU and everywhere else where we talk about it. Sweden is deeply involved in the implementation of the peace agreement as well as in improving the protection of human rights defenders, including in local communities. Sweden is involved in funding the UN Office for Human Rights in Colombia, as well as Swedish and Colombian NGOs acting to strengthen and protect human rights defenders in the country. These are extremely concrete actions. We also support the Colombian judicial system and are working to redress the victims of the conflict, which is a prerequisite for reconciliation. It must also be borne in mind that several Swedish organisations exist in the country and very much participate in peace building. On 4 March, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Michel Forst, presented a report on the situation in Colombia. Forst highlighted that the country has developed a sophisticated system for protecting human rights defenders and has also developed effective action plans. Nevertheless, many human rights defenders were in danger, especially those working in conflict-affected areas. The UN has also reported a 50% increase in the number of female human rights defenders murdered in recent years. This is very worrying, and we will continue to work with the Colombian authorities and civil society to reverse this trend as quickly as possible.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-72	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for this. I know that Sweden is doing a very good job, and Sweden's words were on the lips of many when I was there and met various trade unions, student organisations, women's organisations and indigenous people's organisations. Therefore, their expectations are high. Many knew nothing about the approximately SEK 100 million that Sweden has actually invested. As regards resolution 1325, Mr Bernadotte was actually well Folke about. It was known that money was being invested specifically in women's participation in the peace process. Nothing else was quite obvious to many. But of course it is a terrible situation for women. I was there for ten days. During that time there were nine murders, and eight of those murdered were women, in the worst - affected conflict areas. Many asked the question: What does the Swedish people and parliament do when the Swedish government's ambition is to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation? In order to realise this ambition, the work needs to include how Sweden also acts outside the country's borders. They invest in fossil activities in Colombia, for example. The First – Fourth AP Funds and the Seventh AP Fund manage SEK 2,000 billion of Swedish pension capital. The funds have long invested pension funds in fossil companies, which are also a root cause of the conflict in the areas in which the indigenous population lives and where almost eight million people have been displaced. So this conflict is so multifaceted. These companies are transnational, where Sweden's AP funds unfortunately participate and contribute. This is also one of the causes of the conflict. There are lots of different conflicts there, but this one is so big. It is positive that new sustainability requirements have been introduced for the funds. This concerns the new law referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his reply and a new framework for premium pensions. The fact that at the beginning of 2020 the First AP Fund discontinued all such investments is very positive. But the other AP funds have not made any decisions or targets to reduce their fossil holdings. By the end of 2019 they had SEK 32 billion in the world's largest fossil companies. If Sweden is to realise its ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation, this must be reviewed. The funds must stop such investments and stop contributing to even more conflict. In addition to the evaluation, how does the government ensure that this will be done with the other AP funds?
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-78	Madam President, I would like We see that companies and investors can play a very positive role in peace building in Colombia. Through the Swedish-supported business fund for innovations for peace, entrepreneurs in conflict-affected areas gain faster and easier access to credit. Many of the approximately 90 Swedish companies present in the country are part of one of the embassy's coordinated CSR networks. The network regularly meets with Colombian government and business representatives to exchange experiences and lessons learned. Swedish companies and investors are at the forefront of sustainability and respect for human rights. They also want and benefit from contributing to a more peaceful Colombia. Colombia is also an active member of the Joint Global Deal initiative of Sweden, the ILO and the OECD. The Swedish trade union movement has had and continues to have a deep human rights commitment in Colombia for decades. A well-functioning social dialogue creates a more economically and socially sustainable society where more people can benefit from the benefits of foreign investment. There are today clearer and higher demands on First – Fourth AP Funds to act exemplary from a sustainability perspective. In the past, there was no explicit requirement in the Act that AP funds should take environmental, social and corporate governance aspects into account in their administration. It is important that the AP funds take precedence and show that it is possible to contribute to sustainable development while managing the funds so that it produces higher returns. To invest our pension funds responsibly means that it should be in line with the international conventions that Sweden has signed.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is a good thing if Sweden has already taken the initiative. However, I do have proof – the Foreign Minister can get it – that in some of these funds it has rather increased. On the paper I hold in my hand you can see the numbers for First – Fourth AP Funds and for the Seventh AP Fund. One can see that it has been phased out in the First AP Fund but not in the others. Sweden has the ambition to become a fossil-free nation, free from environmental degradation and conflicts that accompany it. Not least the indigenous people in many parts of Colombia are already affected. This also applies in other countries, such as Indonesia. We have evidence that, for example, the AP funds also influence there, both when it comes to conflicts and when it comes to environmental degradation. I therefore think it is urgent, not only to save the face of Parliament and the government, but for every Swedish citizen who has money in AP funds' pension savings. We must ensure that it is sustainable and credible. We should not contribute to more conflicts because of our investments and because companies should enrich themselves at the expense of others. It is my call and hope that the other AP funds will also stop investing in fossil companies. In fact, there is a law in Colombia that says to negotiate with the locals. But companies completely ignore those laws and rules. That is why we need to put an end to this.
i-c28ac5b4a49f5730-87	Madam President, I would like I do not think that Swedish companies and investors completely ignore laws that exist in Colombia. On the contrary, Swedish companies and investors are at the forefront of both sustainability and human rights work from an entrepreneurial perspective. With regard to other AP funds, I refer to the minister responsible, Per Bolund, for more detailed discussions. The peace agreement between the Colombian Government and the Farc-EP guerrilla group is historic and unique. The negotiations involved not only the parties to the conflict but also the victims of the conflict, such as women's organisations, civil society, human rights defenders and so on. The agreement is the first equal peace agreement in history. It is now of the utmost importance that the Colombian state continues to implement the agreement. But it must have the support of the international community, and Sweden is ready to support it in every way. The current development cooperation strategy with Colombia extends until the end of 2020 and work on developing a new strategy has begun. Through our political commitment, aid and the large presence of Swedish civil society organisations and companies, Sweden will continue to be a partner for peace, for human rights and sustainable development in Colombia.
