i-676f68619a776f8c-14	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson has asked the Minister for Finance if the Minister and the government will start working more quickly so that we do not unnecessarily lose jobs and businesses. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Madam President, I would like The government has, in a very short time, developed a series of measures to help the country's companies overcome the crisis that the current pandemic has brought to many of these. For example, aid for short-term lay-off, conversion aid for fixed costs, special rental aid for vulnerable sectors, temporary reduction of employers' contributions and social security contributions, increased provisioning to the accrual fund, increased state liability for sick pay costs, deferred tax payments and extended loan facilities and credit guarantees. The vast majority of these can also be applied for by individual traders. On 10 September 2020, the Government submitted to the Riksdag a proposal with an additional amending budget with a proposal to allocate SEK 3 1⁄2 billion for a specific turnover support aimed specifically at individual traders. On 23 September 2020, the Parliament decided to allocate these funds to the support. The Government has then rapidly developed a memorandum with a regulation that regulates the detailed conditions for the support. The memorandum has been referred and subsequently prepared in the Government Office as quickly as possible. The Regulation on turnover aid to individual traders was adopted by the Government on 5 November and entered into force on 9 November 2020. Since 10 November 2020 it has been possible to apply for support, and the county administrative boards are ready to process incoming applications. Madam President, I would like I therefore do not share Elisabeth Svantesson's view that the government has not worked urgently to get measures in place to help the country's companies overcome the economic consequences of this ongoing, miserable pandemic.
i-676f68619a776f8c-19	Madam President, I would like It took nine months for individual traders to even apply for emergency aid. That is what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government want to call it urgently. I call it extremely slow. Madam President, I would like This year has been a trying time. First of all, of course, on a human level because many have been ill, affected and lost loved ones. But it has also been a test for the economy, both for the Swedish and for many entrepreneurs. During the spring, we Moderates were clear about what we thought should be done to save jobs and businesses and push back unemployment. We put forward proposals on the basis of proposals, and in many cases the government also met them, which was very gratifying. In Parliament these proposals were dealt with quickly, which was important in order to save jobs and businesses. What happened in the economy last spring? The supply decreased sharply. In March and April, many companies and industries had a tough time. They did not get components from other parts of the world and staff were home with different symptoms. Demand was also severely slowed down. We did not behave as usual because of the clear restrictions, and that was quite right. The only problem was that all companies in these industries, large and small, were hit very hard by these restrictions. Madam President, I would like A large part of the country's entrepreneurs are individual traders. They include hairdressers, taxi drivers, sound technicians or masseurs. They work in industries with a lot of contact with people, and this contact has obviously slowed down due to the spread of infection. Now that the new restrictions are in place, they will get even tougher. Many of these entrepreneurs are, as I said, individual traders. They've chosen to run their business like that. In his reply, the Minister for Economic Affairs says that individual traders can benefit from most of the support provided by the government. But that's not true. The largest and most important support, short-term lay-off, they cannot take part in. In the vast majority of cases, they were also unable to benefit from the conversion aid that came in the spring. It would cover fixed costs, which in their case are wages. However, salary could not be declared as fixed cost and thus could not take part in the aid. Lower social security contributions and social security contributions can only be consulted if they have any income. Madam President, I would like I have spoken to many of them, and the vast majority of them have not been able to take part in this support. That is why early this spring we Moderates took this initiative and pushed on. Finally, with the entire Parliament, we made it clear to the government, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: you must return with support to the individual traders. This was in June. By the time we got back here in August, nothing had happened. The government went on a long summer vacation and left these small businesses in the lurch. Let me ask the Minister for Economic Affairs once again: does the Minister for Economic Affairs think that the government, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance have dealt with this important issue for all individual traders urgently?
i-676f68619a776f8c-31	Madam President, I would like These nine months have for many certainly felt like an eternity. There are probably many who can hardly remember what it was like before the pandemic struck, with all that it has meant. That it is a difficult situation for those who have suffered and suffer from the infection and for the too many who have lost loved ones, we all understand. In addition, it is just as Elisabeth Svantesson says: It was a huge strain on economics and employment. Against this background, the government has taken a large number of measures as a matter of urgency. If we sum up these direct subsidies and credit and loan guarantees, we launched the biggest support programme ever. We did this as quickly as we could for the simple reason that the speed was important. In addition, we did so under very uncertain conditions. With the facsimile in hand, you can always say this, but when we were in the middle of it, neither the Elisabeth Svantesson of Moderates nor anyone else could see exactly how this would develop. I would say that the Government Office and the Government have worked quickly. I also appreciate that in many respects we have had a good dialogue and good cooperation with the parties in Parliament. That's what I think. In such very difficult circumstances as these, which we are a long way from getting out of, one should stay too good to try to take party political points and instead cooperate for the good and woe of the country. In addition to limiting infection and saving human lives, we have had the priority of mitigating the effects on entrepreneurship and employment in our country. Madam President, I would like You'll probably have to be humble in crises like this and say you're working on and doing your best. When you don't have complete systems, which neither we nor any other country, I think, have had to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship, you have to work with the tools you have. We have launched a large number of different subsidies. I repeat them: short-term lay-off, conversion aid, rental aid, temporary reduction of employers' contributions, increased provision for the accrual fund, the state takes over sick pay costs and deferred tax payments. In addition, there are extended loan facilities and credit guarantees. Inalles, Elisabeth Svantesson, we are talking about nearly 700 billion of taxpayers' money that we have used to try to mitigate the crisis and its impact on jobs and jobs. To whoever is watching now, I can say that we will continue. In a deep and broad crisis like this, we need to stand together. We need to help each other to try to get out of this as well as we can. It's just like Elisabeth Svantesson said. It is clear that during and after the summer we have also worked and will continue to work to try to ensure that it is as far as possible saving companies and thus jobs in our country. It is part of the opposition's role – I myself have been in opposition for eight years – to say that it is always too late and too little. But I wish that in this difficult situation one could rise up a little more and work with us so that we can get out of this miserable situation.
i-676f68619a776f8c-39	Madam President, I would like If it is something that the opposition, including the Moderates, did last spring, it was just working together. We have made constructive proposals. The Finance Committee – sometimes all eight parties – adjusted and improved the Government's proposal. We have certainly been constructive. It is not to take partisan political points if it is noted that a large group of entrepreneurs, for whom we have been calling for a long time, have not received support. It is not to take partisan points if you point out that mothers and fathers have mortgaged houses and homes. Others have gone bankrupt. I have had many talks during the crisis, Madam President, with entrepreneurs and others who are having a very tough time. I was told by a man that he now lives in a trailer because he has gone into personal bankruptcy. Many have had an incredibly tough journey. I will do everything I can to ensure that all those companies that are fundamentally viable but have been severely affected as they have now been more or less banned will receive the support that I think they are entitled to. We must have these industries even after the crisis. It is not possible to get away from the fact that it took nine months to even apply for this support. We have raised this issue for many months without hearing it. It took a while until the Moderates and I threatened that we would get to grips with this in the Finance Committee and put forward the proposal there; however, I always think it would be better if the Government Office worked out the proposals. Then the government finally set off. This is to be a constructive opposition and to be a blowtorch on the back of the government, which in this case and at this particular support worked far too slowly. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about the people who have had to wait a long time. It's like I said moms and dads. It is hardworking people who have chosen to do their job as a single firm. It is wage labour that is their source of revenue. All the very good support that the Minister for Economic Affairs just listed is good for other companies but not for this particular group. I therefore hope that the government will link a clearer economic strategy to the pandemic as the crisis, the spread of infection and the pandemic continue. It can't be this long. Now that new restrictions came in yesterday, which I fully support, you have to be quick on your feet and make sure that no more companies fail so that we get an even higher unemployment rate. It would be so unnecessary. We have a parliament with eight parties. Basically, everyone wants to push back unemployment and save businesses. It's quite possible. Use us for that! The other week, the government and the support parties announced that they will extend, for example, conversion aid. That's very good. However, I do not understand why we are delaying next year. Nor do I understand why it is not possible to make this more accurate when so many people are affected. But I can promise that we Moderates will do everything we can to get every proposal the government puts on Parliament's table to save jobs and businesses as quickly as possible. We may even be able to help improve them. But the pandemic is running out of time – don't let it go too long when it comes to the extensions and directing support to where they are most needed. Sweden would not be able to afford that.
i-676f68619a776f8c-46	Madam President, I would like It is always important to be humble, especially when you get into such a deep crisis that came at a great speed. You have to work fast to get things in place. It is good that Elisabeth Svantesson can now grant the government some credit that we quickly received a large number of efforts and support on the ground. In addition, it was done on a scale that we in our country have never experienced and hopefully never again need, but we cannot know that. It is important to keep to the facts, especially in times such as these when very many people are worried and uncertain and have been affected as entrepreneurs or because they have lost jobs as employees. Unfortunately, too many have become so during the crisis. Sticking to the facts applies not only to the government but also to the opposition. Many of the aid that we have listed has been available as an individual trader. However, as Elisabeth Svantesson says, in some cases it has been shown that you do not have this kind of fixed cost. In other cases, they have not benefited as much. It is against this background that we have continued to work and have developed turnover support for individual traders. Elisabeth Svantesson talks about nine months as if we were at the end of this. I think we are both aware that this misery will continue for a long time. There is much evidence that a vaccine may be the one that will eventually break the infection. We will continue to work in parallel with this. I can assure both those who listen and Elisabeth Svantesson that we are conducting a continuous discussion, discussion and dialogue with representatives of industry and trade unions as well as with individual traders. Of course, I have heard many of these stories and met individual traders, those who work with limited companies and employees. I really understand that this is a very tough time. It's tough because, for the first time in a hundred years, we're in a global pandemic. We will do our utmost to mitigate the effects. However, I think it would be dangerous if we were here as representatives of government or opposition and tried to give the impression that we will be able to remedy any negative effects of the crisis. We won't be able to do that. But we will do our best with the great resources that we as a rich country have. After all, resources are limited and we must ensure that they are used in the best possible way. In parallel with the announcement of new restrictions on the continuing increase in infection, we are also, of course, working to see how we can use our common money and taxpayers' money to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. I would have liked not a single company to go bankrupt because of the pandemic. I wish not a single person had had to get rid of his job. In the spring too many companies went bankrupt for this reason. Some may have done so because they had had difficulties even before and were speeded up by the pandemic. Others did so directly because the pandemic put an end to the way they were operating and the business model they had. Madam President, I would like Thanks to many of the efforts we have made, we have been able to see that the wave of bankruptcy has stopped. In any case, it has not been much higher than previous normal years. That does not mean, however, that we have got out of this. On the contrary, we will have to keep working. Madam President, I would like Let me say once again that I believe that there are times for political debate and trying to score party political points. But I believe that the Swedish people, as well as Swedish companies and employees, expect us to work together in the time we are in. The government is still prepared to work together with the Riksdag to find good solutions.
i-676f68619a776f8c-55	Madam President, I would like I think that Sweden's entrepreneurs expect us to work together, but they also expect to have a Minister for Economic Affairs who understands their conditions. We are in a crisis right now, and I will continue to remind you that not everyone has received the support they should have received and that part of the aid has been complicated. I see this as my task, in order to save as many jobs and businesses as possible. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry speaks of humility. It would then be appropriate to note that support for individual traders has taken a long time. It is a little confusing, Madam President. On the one hand, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government says that most of the aid has been available. This is not true. On the other hand, Baylan himself sometimes says, for example on Facebook the other week, that it has been shown that small individual traders have not been able to benefit from government measures. That's a good confession. That's exactly how it's been-- it took nine months before you could even apply for the grants. I hope – that is why I have this debate – that it will not go so far in what we need to do in the future, but that it will go quickly and that small businesses will not end up in the back of the line. There's a lot of them. They don't hire many – individual traders are completely alone – but they are important and many. I hope that the government and the parliament together will be able to ensure that we can save as many jobs and businesses as possible. Of course, many will suffer unemployment and bankruptcy. They have already done so, but we must do everything we can to ensure that viable companies and industries, which are now more or less grounded, actually survive the crisis. That is why I have put the interpellation, and I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs can show some humility in this.
i-676f68619a776f8c-59	Madam President, I would like Humility is easy to demand from others, but as the Bible says, one must always look at and have an understanding of one's own. I am really trying to be humbled by the fact that we are in a difficult situation. In the same way, I think we should be humbled because, although we are a rich country with great resources, these are still limited. We have to do the best we can with the resources we have to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country. That's what we're trying to do. I said earlier that we have seen that individual traders have not been able to apply for certain subsidies and measures, although these are nominally available because they sometimes do not have fixed costs and sometimes have no customers. Then it won't help, and that's why we've both screwed up and developed new support. Madam President, I would like Of course we should always have political debate. It is an important part of the democratic model we have, and I have full respect for it. Yet we are in a difficult situation. Of course, if I wanted that kind of polemic, I could tell Elisabeth Svantesson that in April she said that we would pump out SEK 100 billion per month of taxpayers' money. Instead, in September, she criticised the government for proposing that we have a budget space of 100 billion for a whole year – it was far too frivolous and wasteful. Now we stand here in November, and it is said that it is too little and too late. I fully understand that it is an important part of the opposition's role to say that the government is doing far too little, far too late, and that no matter what the government proposes something else should have been done. I understand this – under normal circumstances, but now it is not. For the government, I can say that we will continue to work, in close dialogue with companies, with trade unions and also with the opposition, to try to develop efforts to mitigate the effects of a misery that we are still far from getting out of.
i-676f68619a776f8c-64	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked me about Sweden's emergency stocks and what responsibility I think the government has to meet the citizens' needs for protective equipment in a social crisis. I would like to begin by explaining the Swedish emergency preparedness, which is based on the principle of responsibility. The principle of responsibility means that the person responsible for an activity under normal conditions has equivalent responsibility in crisis and war situations. In Sweden, the regions and municipalities are the heads of health care. This means, among other things, that they should plan their health care on the basis of the need for care by those who are subject to the responsibility of the region but also plan to maintain emergency medical preparedness. This includes planning by principals to ensure that health care supplies of protective equipment and consumables meet the needs that may arise in the event of a serious event. At the same time, the rapid progress of the pandemic meant that there was a need for coordinated national action. To support regions and municipalities and to ensure the national need for protective equipment, the government therefore made several quick decisions. The Government decided in March to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to ensure at national level the availability of protective equipment and medical devices, etc. The assignment also included responsibility for distributing and redeploying the principals at national level, if necessary, and that the authority should take the initiative to start the production of materials within Sweden. Within the framework of these assignments, the National Board of Health and Welfare has built up a national emergency storage facility containing protective equipment and medical devices and more. Thus, if there is a shortage of protective equipment in regions and municipalities, they can turn to the National Board of Health and Welfare to obtain support from this warehouse until their regular purchasing channels are restored. It is important to understand the background to Swedish preparedness as it does. In the early 1990s, large parts of the civil defence in Sweden were dismantled, which meant, among other things, that Sweden would no longer have national emergency stocks. I think there are several of us who can say today that it was a mistake. Even before the pandemic broke out, the government had begun work to strengthen preparedness. This is a long-term work – the former civil defence grew for several decades. In 2015, a decisive decision was taken to resume total defence readiness. Another important decision for the work to strengthen Sweden's preparedness was made in August 2018, when the government set up an investigation into health care preparedness for and in the event of serious events in peacetime and increased preparedness. The investigation will, among other things, review the current arrangements to ensure that there is access to medicines and other health equipment in the event of serious peacetime events and during increased preparedness. This should be done on the basis of the principle of responsibility, but the investigation should examine whether there are reasons to clarify the responsibilities of the regions, municipalities, the state or private actors. During the summer of 2020 the investigation has also received an additional assignment to take into account experience from the outbreak of covid-19 during the further investigation period. The investigation shall, in April 2021, provide an interim report on the parts relating to the supply of healthcare goods e l and medicinal products. This will be an important basis for the government's efforts to strengthen Swedish preparedness.
i-676f68619a776f8c-73	Madam President, I would like I have asked the Minister of Social Affairs three questions about the availability of protective equipment. These are important and not very complicated questions, and they read as follows: Despite the simple questions, most of the answers are missing. Madam President, I would like My view is that the Minister for Social Affairs does not really want to answer the questions clearly. Our country is going through the most serious crisis in modern times. But the government obviously does not want to take responsibility in its dialogue with the citizens by, for example, providing clear answers in debates like this one. It is therefore surprising but also very gratifying that, in his response to this particular debate, the Minister for Social Affairs actually notes that it was a mistake to remove national emergency stocks. The government with Hallengren at its head has otherwise blamed everything on the regions. It gives us a bit of a bad aftertaste when, at the same time, we get to know that the state stocks that regions made their orders from and that would be a backup for regions and municipalities in crisis did not exist. For example, Region Uppsala testifies to this. My hope is that the Corona Commission will show where it is wrong. Unfortunately, their work is now delayed, and some reports are delayed, while the pandemic is reaping new victims. The mistakes must not be repeated. Madam President, I would like Last time I was having a debate with Minister Hallengren, she accused me of ralliing in the speaker's chair. Of course, the Minister is free to think so. But I hope that this debate will keep a considerably higher level and actually provide answers to the questions asked. I think the voters can demand this from their elected representatives in general and from the representatives of the government in particular.
i-676f68619a776f8c-80	Madam President, I would like The undertones that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt always has in all interpellation debates can be heard by those who listen themselves. In fact, I find it remarkable that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt in her reply does not at all understand exactly what is the answer to at least two of the questions and what is the principle of responsibility. It is certainly not insignificant to agree on it, especially for Sweden's Members of Parliament. If Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has a different idea of how the division of responsibilities is in the country, we can gladly have an interpellation debate on it. But that is the situation we have. If the regions are responsible for health care, I do not think it is in any way a question of someone blaming someone else, but everyone has a responsibility. I think it is very important in crisis situations, and not least in a pandemic situation, to know who is responsible for what. In addition to that, you need to work together and collaborate and in every way help each other. But moving responsibility in the middle of crises may not be the most successful. I think it is very complicated and that everyone, as I said, needs to know their role. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt is welcome to repeat what she said, because I did not really understand what kind of backup the National Board of Health and Welfare was but did not work like. At the beginning of the pandemic, the National Board of Health and Welfare had not built up national stocks. It wasn't their job. On 16 March, however, they were commissioned by the government to set up a national warehouse in order to replace and supplement the purchases made by municipalities and regions in the past, which were not sufficient. The closed borders created enormous problems for all of us, and of course ultimately for those in need of protective equipment, ventilators, pharmaceuticals or whatever it was that was seized in other countries even though the order was perhaps made from municipalities, regions or the state in Sweden. To everyone listening to this kind of debate, I would like to say that this is a completely different situation with regard to protective equipment. The fact that the National Board of Health and Welfare has had a national task to act as a national purchasing centre since mid-March obviously affects the situation. I hope that it will affect the safety of those in the middle of the business, whether it is later care for the elderly, LSS or primary care or in inpatient care. I really hope they feel that. I am absolutely convinced that municipalities and regions themselves feel that they have a different perseverance. But I also think it is important to know that the National Board of Health and Welfare has stocks where you can also get support. I would like to emphasise that it is not a question of replacing the local and regional preparedness with a national stock. In response to the question, if the Minister intends to build up a reserve, I would like to say that in the midst of a pandemic, where protective equipment is still being used and where there is still something that all countries want at the same time, it is no easy task to build up large stocks. It is therefore very important that everyone continues to carry out their procurements and to make their purchases. But the situation is certainly different. The answer to the government's responsibility is that the government has a responsibility to assist authorities in various ways in fulfilling their roles. But I also think that in this response and in other contexts, not only in this House, I have described how the government has given mandates to authorities, which they have never had before. I think it has been important, and we will not hesitate to take this type of action in the future too. When it comes to the overall picture and how much material there is in every municipality, in every region and on the National Board of Health and Welfare, everyone is on this task – what they have in their municipality, what they have in their region and what the National Board of Health and Welfare has. But the county administrative boards were given an important task, namely to coordinate for the support of the National Board of Health and Welfare how the security supplies were in each municipality. That's not where you put your own knowledge. I think everyone has a better knowledge of that today.
i-676f68619a776f8c-88	Madam President, I would like The article I referred to can be emailed to the Minister so that she can take note of it and so that she knows what I am talking about. We can note that according to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, Sweden had good emergency preparedness during the pandemic's initial spread in the country. That's what they said. We have seen the truth of this statement, and that was actually not true at all. On the contrary, our readiness was really bad, and I think that the Minister himself has been involved in his speech. She has said that we need to build up stocks and so on over time. We have jointly taken various decisions on this in committee and in plenary. That the Minister, as the most politically responsible, lacked this overall picture that we have just talked about, she has previously expressed in an interview in the media. It is most remarkable that this is the way it is. Although there are different principals, a minister in the Swedish government must have the overall picture of how it looks in the country. I think everything else is unthinkable. We will have to believe the statement that describes the Minister for Social Affairs' lack of information and inferiority in the entire management of the population's chances of protection. This has fallen. We also have to guess that Hallengren really needed this overall picture of Sweden's preparedness in order to better manage a serious crisis like this one. Once upon a time, we had a security layer large enough to protect each of the citizens of civil society in Sweden. In 2014, however, MSB made a decision that all respiratory protection should be burned up. Large quantities of protective equipment were discarded without being replaced. From being a country prepared for crisis, our country became extremely vulnerable, without the ability to protect its citizens. During the continuing spread of the pandemic, our government had to rely on the purchase of adequate protective equipment from other countries, which became extremely problematic when parts of the world were in the same need as us. And several countries completely shut down their exports. At the beginning of the pandemic, we also found that our neighbouring country Finland had something that Sweden lacked. They had the will to protect their citizens, and they had a well-developed reserve. They had prepared. For this, however, among other leading Social Democrats did not show any respect whatsoever. On the contrary, reflection on our own preparation was not on the agenda at all. On the contrary, the annoyance that Finland did not share with us its well-developed reserve could not be hidden. It was even proposed that laws be introduced so that, for example, Finland would be forced to share its emergency stocks with us instead of protecting its own population. Madam President, I would like It is a most remarkable act of parties in government that have been careless with their own mission. It's like going over to the neighbor's house and demanding access to their food because you've eaten your own food and ignored buying new ones.
i-676f68619a776f8c-97	Madam President, I would like I note that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt follows all the comments I have made in various media during this pandemic, and there are quite a few. I stand for every single one of them. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt may e-mail as many articles as she likes. On the other hand, I would like to make it very clear that they cannot be torn out of context either. You have to be careful about that. I also think that as a Member of Parliament, you should make an effort to try to see, understand and communicate the whole. I assume Ann-Christine From Utterstedt refers to the readiness in mid-February. In that situation there was a situation where it was about really knowing who is responsible for what, but neither I nor the National Board of Health and Welfare answered the question whether Sweden has protective equipment so that it is enough for a pandemic if borders are closed. On the contrary, Ann-Christine From Utterstedt can find all the comments where we said early that we were very concerned about what it looked like. Municipalities and regions already signalled that they did not have the necessary equipment. You could say you didn't want to get high. It can also be described as preparing for a crisis, which is the responsibility of municipalities and regions. In the 1990s, Ann-Christine From Ann-Christine's party did not sit in the Swedish parliament. Then we decided together, and there was nothing that needed to be struck through. I would say that there was a common understanding that we had a very different situation, not only in Sweden but also in our surrounding world. We noted that we would have another way of facing different types of crises and wars– associated, I would guess, with how the Berlin Wall fell and how the Cold War was supposed to be over. There was a very optimistic view of the future and of what our security situation looked like. This does not mean that they did not want to be prepared, but they wanted to organise it in a different way. I am not saying that anyone today, yesterday or even in the 1990s was completely wrong with the knowledge they had then, but I think it is important that we learn from the experience we have learned from it. This is also why the National Board of Health and Welfare has played the role of starting to build up stocks. In the coming years, 1 billion will be allocated to start building stocks. Civil preparedness should also increase significantly; it is an ambition that exists. I also think it is important, to the extent that we have listeners who hear this, to comment on the burning of protective equipment. I do not think that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt or anyone else would want us to have protective equipment which cannot be used and which does not fulfil its function. Imagine letting a person go into a situation where it feels that it is doing its job and that it has protective equipment knowing that the equipment does not work – that it is too old and that the best-case date has expired. The fact that we have not been constantly filling up is because we do not have a decision on a national emergency stock. I would also like to emphasise that, in this pandemic, we have, of course, always to learn – between municipalities, between regions and between countries. It is always possible to take the country that stands out in any respect, such as Finland, which, as far as I know, is the only country that has very large emergency stocks. No other country is in that situation. I have not been able to meet my colleagues in the way that I can normally do, but I am guessing that many countries are considering how to deal with this and that we are also considering at European level how we can together be better at dealing with future crises. In mid-February, we joined the Joint Procurement Agreement, which gave us the opportunity to participate in EU joint procurements. All EU countries saw the need to award contracts because they were not in large stocks. There can be a long discussion of economic policy on what we spend money on. Are we prepared to set aside large common resources for, for example, stockpiling in the future?
i-676f68619a776f8c-105	Madam President, I would like We are still in the midst of a serious social crisis and are affected differently by the consequences of the pandemic every day. So far, we can see that our country's governing elected representatives have for a long time made gross wrong priorities that have driven us far away from the self-preservation drive needed for survival. From protecting and defending our population, breathing masks have been burned up without being replaced by anything new, and we do not even know today, for example, how big our population is or who lives in the country. We must learn from the serious mistakes that have been made. No one could predict that a serious virus would spread around the world right now. What we could have foreseen, however, was that we could at some point be faced with a serious social crisis, and we could have kept the country well equipped to do so. Unfortunately, there has not been any rehabilitation, but, on the contrary, the government has relied on the aid of other countries. Madam President, I would like In fact, I expect more from the Swedish Government. For example, I expect our elderly and fragile to be adequately protected in the event of social crises. I expect anticipation, planning and preparedness worth the name. If the government can't offer its citizens this is the community contract broken. This pandemic has really shown Sweden's shortcomings, for example in the care of the elderly. We have discussed this many times before, and there is every reason to come back to it. These are, for example, serious language confusions.
i-676f68619a776f8c-109	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for the fact that at least in the closing speech there is a passage saying that we are still in the midst of a pandemic. I do not have such high expectations that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt, as a Swedish Democrat in any context, will pay tribute to a Social Democratic-led government, so I do not take this very hard. On the other hand, it is absolutely essential that we continue at a time when the pandemic is taking off, not only in Sweden and in Europe, but also globally. Even if a vaccine is on the way – let us really hope so – we all know that it does not solve the incredibly large societal problems caused by this virus. I think many people have seen that pandemics and crises may come at some point, but what is specific to this pandemic and which makes it a crisis that affects everyone is the fact that it is about distance and about people not meeting. Another time it may be a virus that spreads through the air or in some other way. This presents challenges; it has required a transformation of our society and of our environment that is completely unique. Looking back at 2020, no one will be able to escape the major changes that have taken place. Much of this is likely to remain – not least, we will learn from it in the face of future social crises. I would like to conclude by saying that no protective material that can be used has ever been fired up. The equipment that cannot be used, where the best before date has expired, we should not allow anyone to meet covid-19 with. On the other hand, we will ensure that health care personnel have the opportunity to do their work, including by ensuring that the spread of infection is reduced so that they have a manageable situation and so that we do not end up where we were last spring. The health care system then made fantastic efforts.
i-676f68619a776f8c-113	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah's been asking me.
i-676f68619a776f8c-118	Being a parent and starting a family should be a positive part of life. Child - bearing care is so much more than childbirth itself. The future mothers should be able to feel safe both before, during and after childbirth. That's why we need a safe maternity care in Sweden. It is about the health and safety of women and newborns. Robert Hannah believes that his questions are not about maternity care or the government's efforts on it. I do not agree – on the contrary, maternity care and post-natal care, as well as pre-natal care, are central to detecting ill health and supporting parents in the face of parenthood. As far as maternity care is concerned, there are many things that work well. However, there are some shortcomings and unwarranted differences in the practice of post-natal care, both within and between regions. We cannot accept shortcomings and differences. In particular, postpartum care needs to be improved, both in the hospital and after home. There is also a need for better support for vulnerable groups, such as women with mental health problems. There I agree with Robert Hannah. As Robert Hannah probably knows, it is the regions that are responsible for most of the health care, including maternity care, after-care and mental health care. It is therefore up to the regions to decide how to organise care in the best way to meet patients' needs, in this case women with maternity psychosis. Special maternity and infant units are a way of organising care to meet the needs of newly delivered women and their infants. However, the government has seen the need for national efforts to meet the challenges that exist in this part of the care. During the year one 2015 – 2019, the government has therefore allocated a total of SEK 5.1 billion to maternity care, including aftercare, and to other initiatives to strengthen care for women. While the investments have produced good results – the care chain has been strengthened in many places and collaboration between different parts of the care chain has improved – challenges remain regarding both the work environment and the availability, equality and quality of care. Access to maternity care needs to be increased, continuity of the care chain before, during and after pregnancy strengthened and post-natal care developed. This will continue to be a focus area for the government during its term of office. In the budget proposal for 2021, the Government proposes that the investment in maternity care and women's health should increase by SEK 500 million and comprise SEK 1.5 billion in 2021. Actions in this area shall include, inter alia, national guidelines in maternity care. The guidelines should promote continuity for the woman during pregnancy, childbirth and aftercare. A coherent chain of care with continuity all the way increases security. It also provides increased opportunities for qualitative aftercare where it is easier to catch up with mothers suffering from physical or mental problems after giving birth. Mapping, raising knowledge and following-up efforts in the field are also important components of the continued work within the initiative. To name a few such efforts, the National Board of Health and Welfare is working to develop a coherent knowledge base for pregnancy, childbirth and aftercare. Knowledge support will include a number of areas, including mental illness both during pregnancy and after childbirth. The state's preparation for medical and social evaluation, SBU, has also decided to launch a project aimed at identifying the state of scientific knowledge regarding methods for the treatment of mental illness after pregnancy. The issue of mental health and suicide prevention, which is a high priority of the government, is also highlighted in the agreement between the state and Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, SRR, which is about strengthening and developing work to promote mental health and prevent mental illness and suicide. For 2020, the Government allocates a total of SEK 2.2 billion to efforts in this area. In five years, the government's investment in mental health has more than doubled. Most of the funds are allocated to regions and municipalities to strengthen their work. Another important contribution that the government has made in 2020 is that the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with providing, together with some twenty relevant authorities, regions and Swedish Municipalities and Regions, with a basis for a future national strategy in the area of mental health and suicide prevention. The mandate includes reviewing the 2008 National Programme of Suicide Prevention and making proposals on how to develop efforts in this area in the future. J ag intends to await the report that will be presented by the authorities before I take a position on how the issue, including any zero visions, should be dealt with further.
i-676f68619a776f8c-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Madam President, I would like I have been a Member of Parliament for over six years, and this is the first time that I have debated a health issue. The reason for that is Emma. Emma was the first relative in my husband's family I met, and that was many years ago now. She was a kind and family-oriented girl who worked as a nurse. The first time I met her, she was pregnant with her first child, and she had four children in total. After she had her fourth child, she had a birth psychosis. And I remember how we all immediately felt safe when she was finally placed in closed psychiatric care. The whole worry dropped all over the family. Finally a safe place for her to be taken care of. I'm afraid that's not true. The knowledge of childbirth psychosis was not on that unit, even though it was in Stockholm, the largest city in Sweden. Her babies were removed from her. The possibility of building a relationship with the child was destroyed. Clearly, she received the wrong care and intervention in this unit. Decisions and ignorance cost her her life and left four children alone with a single father. Madam President, I would like Emmas's family is watching this debate today, and I think they deserve an answer as to why Swedish care for women with birth psychosis is so inadequate that Emma is no longer alive. The major shortcoming is the lack of special units and, therefore, accumulated specialist knowledge, a care and an environment adapted precisely for these mothers and infants. The general psychiatric units in Stockholm may get a couple of women a year at maximum. They are apparently spread out on different devices; they do not all come to the same devices. And there's a change of staff all the time. There will be no experience or specialist knowledge of the staff at all. Then one can ask what it is like in smaller regions in Sweden. The Minister is from Kalmar County. How many such cases are there in Kalmar every year, and what care do they receive there? There's no such thing as knowledge. It is good that there are a lot of investments in maternity care, as Lena Hallengren describes in her answer. But it hardly helps the women who suffer from childbirth psychosis, because they are placed in general psychiatric units that are outside the maternity budget. The people who are in these places have all sorts of temporary and permanent diagnoses. There are extremely few cases of birth psychosis. Madam President, I would like In countries such as the UK, the problem has been understood and special maternity and infant units created, allowing the mother and child to be helped to build a relationship and receive care from both child nurses and psychiatric staff together. Lena Hallengren believes that it is up to the regions to create specialist units. But just waiving responsibility seems irresponsible to me. This will not happen without the government pushing the issue. The National Board of Health and Welfare needs to take greater responsibility in this matter. We need to identify a couple of hospitals or regions that are given national responsibility for all women with birth psychosis, just as we do with other rare diagnoses and diseases. There is also another dimension here, and it is the child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly states that children have the right to establish a relationship with their parents. To remove the child from the mother and place the mother on a general psychiatric unit instead of a mother and infant unit is both tragic and wrong, because the child needs his mother. Madam President, I would like This is not the fault of the Social Democrats or of Lena Hallengren. But now they are in charge, and this problem can no longer be ignored. It is not enough, as Lena Hallengren does, to refer only to the regions, but the state needs to take greater responsibility here and point out the National Board of Health and Welfare, let them work harder on this and hopefully propose mother and infant units. Then I have one last question: Is Lena Hallengren prepared to meet Emmas's family?
i-676f68619a776f8c-139	Madam President, I would like First of all, I was going to tell Robert Hannah that it is about time he debated and discussed health care in this House, because it concerns all of us. Of course, given the subject, I had hoped that we would not have had to stand here in the speaker's seat. It was a very touching story. Let us return to the possibility of possibly meeting Emma when the situation is different and you can travel. I really don't want to give up any responsibility. I distance myself a little from the way in which we express ourselves when it comes to having regional principals, and they are not partly responsible. They are not responsible to a certain extent. They are not only responsible for women who have uncomplicated births; they are responsible for the entire health care system. They also have responsibility for the highly specialised care, where they coordinate so that not every region should devote itself to what, as Robert Hannah describes, is unique and unusual diagnoses or disease conditions. Rare diagnosis is something else, but it is the same kind of situation, where a doctor, if any specialist, suddenly meets a condition or a person with a diagnosis that you may never have met. There must, of course, be networks and structures in the health care system in order to get that knowledge quickly. From Robert Hannahs's description of the situation, I really understand the need and Robert Hannahs's perspective. But it cannot be said that the regions are responsible only for births that are straightforward. Great resources are being made available, thanks to the cooperation between the Liberals, the Center Party and the government. It is a question of not only seeing to it the birth situation and the manning of the maternity ward, but of making the whole care chain work. It's not always the way you think. It's not in front of you as long as you've been thinking that way. Of course, midwives and others who work with and meet pregnant, giving birth and new mothers see this. But society has not thus focused on care chains, but it feels that childbirth is a special occasion. For some, it will be a great opportunity. For some time after that you have contact with child health care and follow-up visits. Of course, for some, quite different needs are emerging. I would like to emphasise that the SBU is doing this review. It is clear that the National Board of Health and Welfare should not fail to look at – it is an understatement to say it – very serious complications, such as childbirth psychosis. Thankfully, they affect very few Swedish women, but those who are affected must of course receive the care they need. One really needs to see how best to offer this care with the specialists that exist. If you can't do this yourself, you cooperate within the six healthcare regions we have today in Sweden. If you experience that they are too small, it can be about highly specialised care. But I would guess that it is rather a question of cooperation and cooperation within the healthcare regions.
i-676f68619a776f8c-145	Mr. Old President! As far as the care chain is concerned, this is exactly how Lena Hallengren describes it. In the case of Emma, you can see it clearly, because birth psychology did not come at birth but later. There was a misdiagnosing; a birth depression was actually a psychosis. It was misdiagnosing all the way. There was no knowledge. There was no connection to medical care. There were no meetings with nurses, but only meetings with psychiatrists. I think that is the case for a great many of these women. It's good that we're working on the care chain, but I think the government needs to add more clearly to the maternity psychiatric part of the care chain thinking. I can't really find that this is anywhere, except in the SBU mission. I also believe that a special mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare is needed. I am fully aware that the regions are in charge there. I believe that the National Board of Health and Welfare needs a clearer mandate and a clearer mission from the government to work with the maternity psychiatric parts. You can't treat this like any kind of medical situation. It is a temporary psychiatric situation for the woman, but there is also a child in the picture. We have the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been in force in this country very recently. In this case, the woman was simply removed from her child and not allowed the child to build a relationship. It is very clear in the Convention on the Rights of the Child that children should be entitled to their parent and to care from their parent. In many other countries, such as the United Kingdom, Belgium and Australia, this has been seen. Mother – baby units have not been set up just for the sake of those women who have extreme birth depression and birth psychosis, but they have also done so for the sake of the children. You do it so that the children can have a connection with their parents. It is not enough to put women in normal psychiatric units – not for them, but above all not for the children. I would really like to see a clearer connection with the National Board of Health and Welfare and a clearer mission to them to include birth psychosis in suicide prevention. There is now a lot of money and a lot of bets, but you have to hook on the birth psychologists in the care chain that you are building up. I sincerely hope and believe that the Minister of Social Affairs can clarify the assignments to the National Board of Health and Welfare, have a dialogue with the regions and try to build this up, because it is very successful. You have very good results in the countries where you have a mother – baby – for the mothers, but above all for the children.
i-676f68619a776f8c-150	Mr. Old President! I do not really think that Robert Hannah needs more posts to convince me of the importance of the question that all people in our country have the right to receive the care they need when they need it. Of course, in emergency situations it should not in any case be about yourself knowing where to turn and so on. We talk about this many times in the health care debate, and it becomes very obvious – wherever you turn, knowledge must be there. You have to come right. As I mentioned in my interpellation response, SBU has an assignment within the framework of the regulatory letter for this year. It has been decided to launch a project aimed at identifying the state of scientific knowledge. I will not repeat this, but it is about identifying possible needs for more primary studies, more systematic reviews and so on. I say this because they will provide their basis for the first quarter of 2021. There is, of course, every reason to look in particular at what the basis is, what shortcomings there are and how we can move forward. I hear that Robert Hannah is talking about birth psychosis, but neither are birth depressions so common. There is, of course, a breadth in it. An important tool for healthcare is the national guidelines developed by the National Board of Health and Welfare, which contain recommendations on measures for treatment for depression and anxiety disorder. During the year, it will be re-assessed whether the knowledge situation has changed to see if the guidelines need to be updated. I don't have a date, but the year's almost over. Possibly you have had some respite, which you have had to get in a lot of their rereporting tasks due to the pandemic. But I can promise Robert Hannah I'll keep an eye on this. We need to follow the question. Both of us, but also others, who listen to the discussion, should of course raise the issue with our regions and in Sweden's Municipalities and Regions contexts. I am absolutely convinced that all those who work with care in everyday life, not least those who work with and meet pregnant women, work in maternity care and meet new mothers, see the need for the coherent care chain and for identifying the women who have the greatest needs. I've had to do some reading before this interpellation debate. In the case of postpartum psychosis, symptoms often occur within a couple of days and usually within two weeks. There are also risk groups. Of course, there are many things that should be looked at and known as working in maternity care. We have some surveys in progress that need to be followed up. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to send a message to all those who work in the healthcare sector and to those who have the main responsibility: this must be included when talking about highly specialised care. Perhaps this is such an area. I can't really answer how they see those criteria themselves, but if you can't do it yourself, you're working with others. It's usually an important principle and a pretty good guiding-star.
i-676f68619a776f8c-156	Mr. Old President! I thank Lena Hallengren for a good answer. I think we can work together on this. For me, it has become a matter of heart. I won't give up until I make sure no one gets the kind of care that Emma was given. Everyone should be allowed to come to an institution where both the mother and the child are given the care they need to get healthy again. If she had received the right care, she would now have worked in health care here in Stockholm as a nurse, helped during the Corona crisis and given everything she could. Instead, we have a situation of four children, one of whom is an infant who has lost her mother. I won't give up until that happens. I will give the Minister of Social Affairs contact details to Emmas's family. They live here in Stockholm, so it can be easy to run a digital meeting or meet. We'll get back to you. I will come back to the House and continue to discuss it. Now we've got good promises from the Minister of Social Affairs, so I'm going to make sure we're moving on to the issue.
i-676f68619a776f8c-158	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank you for a constructive and fine interpellation debate. It is clear that no one should be denied the right to care. I assume, of course, that a complaint is made when one feels that errors have possibly been made. It is a matter not only of demanding responsibility, but also of ensuring that any shortcomings are remedied in order to avoid system errors and so on; it will not happen again. Not only should you not receive the wrong treatment, but you must not be denied the right care. I also want to capture what Robert Hannah said in a previous speech on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course it's absolutely central. On the other hand, I want a little unsaid, because that is part of the role of the profession, precisely how care is then organised in these special situations. The question ends up in a few different places and also concerns the work on suicide prevention. It is about maternity care, where you could discover this and give the right care. But it is also about the very extensive work that we have started, where 25 agencies together with the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will review their activities to see how they can contribute to reduced mental illness and ultimately also fewer suicides. It is clear that these situations are also being taken into account. That work is in the longer term. But it should be done properly so that we really have a development and a positive effect. Thank you, Robert Hannah, for the interpellation debate!
i-676f68619a776f8c-161	Mr. Old President! I say hello to Pia Steensland, who can't be here, and I hope she and her relatives are well. I thank Mrs Ankarberg Johansson for taking part in the debate so that it will still take place. Mr. Old President! Pia Steensland has asked me why the government and co-operation parties C and L propose limits on covid-related costs for assistance providers, regarding, for example, maximum ceilings for costs and inclusion of only costs for protective equipment, when similar limitations do not exist for the government's additional cost compensation for other health and care activities. It is important that personal assistants to those who are granted state assistance compensation have access to personal protective equipment as protection against covid-19. The Government has therefore proposed in an additional amending budget to set aside SEK 50 million in order for private operators who carry out personal assistance activities to be able to apply for compensation. Fortunately, Pia Steensland shares my view and that of the government that this is a good and welcome decision, but she still has reservations. In fact, it is a matter of comparison with the additional costs that regions and municipalities receive for additional costs related to other health and social care activities in connection with covid-19. What I and the government have had as a starting point when we proposed additional cost compensation for assistance providers is that personal assistants should have the necessary protective equipment when they carry out their work in contact with people with disabilities. It is additional cost compensation due to covid-19 which goes beyond the costs of protective equipment normally included in the employer's liability. There has been an assessment, supported by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's calculations regarding personal protective equipment for support and care personnel, that the funds allocated to this initiative are well balanced. As with other matters related to covid-19, I will follow this issue closely. Pia Steensland also asks why the additional compensation is limited to personal protective equipment. This is because other additional costs that may arise as a result of covid-19 in the assistance provider's activities and relating to personal assistants can be covered by other decisions taken by the government during the period of the pandemic. For example, SEK 6.8 billion has been allocated to the regions for testing and an additional SEK 3 billion is proposed in an additional amending budget for 2020. B ends have also been taken on a temporary allowance for the first day of illness and to reimburse the employer for the costs of sickness pay in order for employees to stay at home in the event of the slightest sign of infection. In addition, the municipality has a basic responsibility, which means that in the event of a personal assistant's illness, the municipality will replace the organiser with a sick bayist. It is not something new but has always been an assignment that the municipality has when it comes to personal assistance. Finally, I would like to mention that there is the possibility for certain relatives who work as personal assistants for people at risk to apply for infection pay.
i-676f68619a776f8c-169	Mr. Old President! It is my colleague Pia Steensland who has put this interpellation to the Minister for Social Affairs. But since Pia is in home quarantine after proven covid infection within the family, she has asked me to highlight a number of questions with the Government. I'd love to. The issue is urgent, and we Christian Democrats have been pushing the government ever since this spring to ensure that assistance providers are also reimbursed for their additional costs linked to covid-19. Mr. Old President! The government has repeatedly stated during the pandemic that a lack of money should not be decisive in reducing the spread of the new coronavirus. Nevertheless, the compensation for assistance providers has been delayed. And now that the proposal for compensation has finally been presented, there are major shortcomings compared to the compensation given to other health and care activities. It is remarkable and does not rhyme with the government's promise in any other way. Since this question has been raised, the referral to the Government's proposal has been received from the stakeholders concerned. They are pointing out the same flaws that we Christian Democrats are doing. I think, Mr. Old President, that they are not reassured by the answer given by the Government here today. The January parties' proposal is that compensation should only be provided for protective equipment that has been used in situations where there is confirmed or suspected infection with the aid beneficiary. Firstly, it will be very difficult to determine whether there has been infection or not at the time when a certain protective equipment has been used. We all remember how inadequate the capacity was last spring. Although it has now improved, it is still not all who get the chance to test themselves. How will the Swedish Social Insurance Agency assess this in each individual case? Who has the burden of proof? Secondly, many of the beneficiaries belong to a risk group. Therefore, as in any case we Christian Democrats expected, serious assistance providers have used protective equipment precisely for preventive purposes. It has been crucial to minimise the risk of possible infection from assistant to assistant when helping with feeding, showering or toilet visits. In all situations of close contact when we know that the risk of infection is high, you need to be careful. The prevention work has also been successful, I am pleased to say. The spread of infection among assistance users has been less extensive in comparison with, for example, that on specific accommodations. So why do the January parties not want to pay for this extra cost? The Government has also set a flat-rate ceiling for the compensation of a maximum of SEK 5 000 per aid recipient. This is despite the fact that the referee indicates that there are organisers who have had significantly higher costs than this ceiling. Among the members of the employer organisation KFO are examples of organisers who have so far incurred costs of around SEK 10 000 per aid beneficiary. How does this ceiling rhyme with the government's promise that a lack of money should not be decisive in stopping the infection? Why should an application be made per individual? Would it not be easier for assistance providers to make a combined application for the costs of all the equipment they have used for all the persons for whom they are responsible? Mr. Old President! These specific questions require answers. I do not want to believe that the government intends to give worse conditions to assistance providers than to other health care providers. But the fact is that both persons with disabilities and serious assistance providers describe to us Christian Democrats that they feel neglected when the government does not make the compensation equal. I would like to hear the Minister of Social Affairs' answer to these questions.
i-676f68619a776f8c-178	Mr. Old President! I'll try to answer some of the questions. I didn't really follow in taking notes. I was a little focused on answering an interpellation and not on getting completely new questions. Acko Ankarberg Johansson is very happy to repeat them if I missed someone. I would like to say straight away that I have just had the proposal for a referral. One of the things that I have also been brought to my attention is that it has been written that it should be suspected or confirmed covid. Let us look further at how we can make use of that point. I realize there's some work to do there. I would like to dwell a little on what concerns comparisons between the state grant regulation for municipalities and regions and the state grant regulation for personal protective equipment for personal assistants. Nevertheless, they are aimed at different activities. There are municipalities and regions where both premises and transport are to be adapted, and there are other types of training and similar activities to be carried out. Now it's about personal protective equipment. As I described in my interpellation response, there are other situations where it is about the sickness benefit and so on. There is already compensation in a different way because the municipality is obliged to ensure that there are substitutes. Employers also initially get their first two weeks covered. I will certainly not be able to answer all the Acko Ankarberg Johansson supplementary questions in detail. There is reason to highlight what Acko Ankarberg Johansson described. The proportion of people infected with personal assistance is 1.4 per cent, which is considerably lower than in home care and care for the elderly, which I find pleasing in every way. But there is also something about the fact that there are very few people who meet each individual user. There are not many contact surfaces like that, and it certainly has a positive effect. It says something about how we would like to reduce the number of people going home to the elderly in home care and how to find ways to protect the elderly in retirement homes. Acko Ankarberg is welcome to fill in, so we can have a small joint discussion. The use of protective equipment may also be really needed when walking between patients and between patients. It doesn't really look the same when it comes to meeting the same few users. The calculation is simply made from approximate, estimated figures. Of course we are following the question, but we must be able to make some kind of estimate in order to put it in the budget. That's how we need to behave all the time. The estimate of 5,000 is an estimate. Around there one would very likely land. It may sound reasonable in a way that the assistance provider could instead collect its costs. But it is of course the person who has received personal assistance granted who has received compensation a paid and who also needs to account if you are to have other costs covered. That is the order that we need to have, quite simply. On the question of protective equipment for suspected or confirmed covid, I would like to acknowledge that I have understood this as a point of view in the preparation. We'll look at it.
i-FrfGcGW7X5W3SkTuaRdPd2	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. The intervention from Pia Steensland was about why it handles the additional costs of assistance differently from other healthcare and care costs. That's the question. I went through the different parts. So, of course, the questions are connected. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs wants to consider the issue of preventive measures. I think that's a good promise. After all, it will be a completely unreasonable situation to judge whether it was right or wrong on the individual occasion. The fact that so many people have worked actively on this issue has probably resulted in so few being affected by covid-19. Of course, it may be lucky, but the use of protective equipment as a preventive factor has probably contributed to minor outbreaks of covid-19. We need to take this into account, as the Minister for Social Affairs says, in all other activities in order to be able to do the best we can. Let me still lift a few more parts. It is good that the Minister of Social Affairs wants to assess the issue of preventive elements – I hope it disappears – but also the question of maximum ceilings, because they are interrelated. If you decide on a maximum ceiling, it will not work with the assistance, which looks so different. Some have very small needs, others have great needs, perhaps double staffing as well, with very many close-ups. Then you'll need more protective equipment. A ceiling in this context is therefore not necessary. As the government has said before, costs should not stand in the way of dealing with the infection. This must also apply to the provider of assistance. It must also apply to those who need assistance. Otherwise, it is a difference of treatment that is negative. Let me also highlight what is about accounting. The Social Insurance Agency provides evidence in its referral that it will be quite difficult to handle this in the two weeks it has taken to account per person. There is therefore every reason for the government to consider these rules for Försäkringskassan. This would make it easier for the cashier, and it would make it easier for the assistance provider – and then the assistance would be better.
i-676f68619a776f8c-193	Mr. Old President! Again, we are looking at the question of what Acko Ankarberg describes as the prevention, which is not immediately linked to suspected or confirmed covid-19. As far as the roof is concerned, I have no answer to that. That's what it looks like right now. However, we are following the question. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise a little that municipalities and regions have many parts. When we distribute the support to them, it is not just about personal protective equipment, but about many costs that care and care have. It has been clear there that the economy should not be the decisive factor. At the same time, this is a state subsidy issue dealing with personal protective equipment. When it comes to testing, it is something that does not cost you whether you are an assistance provider, user or personal assistant, no more than it should cost the person who works in the care. As far as sickness pay is concerned, they are also regulated by other means. On the other hand, adapting premises and much more are examples of activities that municipalities and regions have. Therefore, I do not think that the two state subsidies regulations can be compared. Support for personal protective equipment is what the issue is about. We will simply come back when it comes to this. It is clear that we must find ways to also prepare the Social Insurance Agency. We realize it's a short time. It may not be that complicated for those who have to account for their costs, but it is clear that this can happen and that it should work. That's the ambition. We would not adopt a new state subsidy regulation if we did not also intend to be able to pay out money.
i-676f68619a776f8c-198	Mr. Old President! Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether I intend to take any general measures to ensure that the legislation on the General Heritage Fund only allows organisations that share democratic values and reject terrorism to receive project grants to counter violent extremism. Public funding should never go to activities that are not compatible with our society's fundamental values, as they are formulated in the government form and in the international conventions on human rights that Sweden is bound by. The public should be able to feel confident that funds are only paid out to organisations that respect the ideas of democracy. In its practice, the Inheritance Fund delegation applies a democratic condition whereby support is not given to organisations that are not on a democratic basis. However, the condition is not statutory. The review of the General Heritage Fund's regulatory framework was, among other things, tasked with proposing how a condition can be designed to ensure that only organisations that respect values that characterise a democratic society can be supported in their activities. In its report, the Inheritance Fund Investigation (SOU 2018:70) suggested that a democracy condition with the meaning that support may not be given to an organisation that promotes, encourages or defends terrorism or otherwise does not respect human rights should be included in the General Heritage Fund Act. New and clarified democracy conditions for state support to religious communities and for grants to civil society have also been investigated and proposed in the reports State support to religious communities in a multi-religious Sweden (SOU 2018:18) and Democracy conditions for contributions to civil society(SOU 2019:35). Both of these questions have been referred. The preparation of the reports has identified a need to analyse issues of personal data processing and confidentiality in cases of support to civil society. It needs to be ensured that sensitive personal data are adequately protected when authorities or individual bodies examine issues of support to civil society. A special investigator has therefore been tasked with analysing issues of personal data processing and confidentiality in cases of support to civil society, including the faith communities (dir. 2020: 113). The mission also covers the proposed democracy condition for the General Heritage Fund. The assignment shall be presented no later than 1 August 2021. The Government then intends to come back to the issue of introducing a democracy condition in the Law on the General Heritage Fund.
i-676f68619a776f8c-203	Mr. Old President! France was recently subjected to a series of particularly brutal terrorist crimes. Crime is not only directed at individuals, but it is clear that the target of these terrorist crimes is French secular democracy. We welcome the fact that the President of France, Emmanuel Macron, so clearly marks against Islamism and expresses unequivocal support for the French secular constitution, for freedom, equality and brotherhood. But it is a message that unfortunately is not shared by everyone. Islamists in high positions around the world have instead chosen to condemn Macron, such as Malaysia's former Prime Minister Mahathir bin Mohamad, who believes that Muslims have the right to kill millions of French people, Turkey's President Erdo中an, who calls for economic sanctions against France, or the imam and leader of the so-called Islam Academy in Malmö. Through its private social media, the imam claims, on the one hand, that Islam is incompatible with secular western democracy and, on the other hand, that the idea of secular society is a racist nationalist ideology that is worse than the one that runs the Islamic state. Furthermore, the imam calls France a villain state and Macron a villainous fool, and he says that the President's clear statement against terrorism is an attack on Muslims and Islam. All of this might not have been worth addressing in an interpellation debate if it had not been the case that the Islam Academy had at the same time participated as a partner in a project funded by the General Heritage Fund to combat violent extremism in Malmö. The Swedish state thus hires a person who advocates violent extremism to counteract violent extremism. But the year is 2020, and nothing surprises me anymore. The Inheritance Fund was apparently fully aware of the Islamic Academy's partnership and had also, if one had bothered to google the name of the imam, been able to see that earlier, for example, he has advocated the death penalty for people who want to leave Islam. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she agrees with the impression that Islam is incompatible with secular western democracy and that Macron's actions are an attack on Islam and Muslims in general, and whether she sees a risk that the state is using a person who defends violent extremism to counter violence-promoting extremism.
i-676f68619a776f8c-210	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for the question! The question that I previously took note of was whether I intend to take any general measures to ensure that the legislation on the General Heritage Fund only allows organisations that share democratic values and reject terrorism to receive project grants to counter violent extremism. One might well find that question extremely interesting to answer. However, I think that the questions that Mr Aspling is asking here understand the answer to. It is clear that there should be no undemocratic forces sharing taxpayers' money. That is exactly what I said in my answer. At the same time, Ludvig Aspling knows that I cannot speak on individual cases as Minister of State. Nor is it the government that decides on each individual matter that is granted funds by the General Heritage Fund. But it is clear – from the interpellation I can inform myself from the office function that exists. The project owner was apparently the Flamman Young People's House. The project was a collaboration with, among others, the City of Malmö, the Prison Service, the Police and the Islam Academy. One might imagine that the fact that police and prison services are also involved in the work does not mean that it is clear that one-sided support is given to an organisation, but rather to a project which in this case was aimed at protecting democracy against anti-democratic behaviour. The work of building a regional resource centre that conveys knowledge, works to strengthen democracy and offers support at community, risk group and individual level is an activity that now continues without support from the General Heritage Fund. My questions to Ludvig Aspling are: Is it reasonable that we should allocate funds to protect democracy against anti-democratic behaviour and radicalisation? And is it good that we are building a regional resource centre that conveys knowledge, works to strengthen democracy and offers support at the level of society, risk groups and individuals?
i-676f68619a776f8c-215	I would just like to remind you that we cannot debate individual cases in this House. The intervention is about taking general measures with regard to the legislation on the General Succession Fund and so on. I'll let the honourable Member remember that.
i-676f68619a776f8c-216	Mr. Old President! Nor is this the first time that the General Heritage Fund has been revealed by funding Islamists. A report by the Swedish Civil Contingency Authority, which I know is well aware of, specifically identifies the Inheritance Fund as a source of funding for the Muslim Brotherhood, a well-known Islamic organisation whose goal is to use immigration and missionary work to break down and destroy Western democracies. The report says that many millions have been channeled from Swedish taxpayers into the Swedish branch of the world's largest Islamic organisation. This means that the state and its citizens have helped financially and organisationally to establish many organisations directly or indirectly linked to MB. Many of these organisations receive state grants through e.g. SST, MUCF and General Inheritance Fund. ..................................................... But despite the fact that this was revealed in 2017 and was probably well known before then, the million-dollar roll continues to the Islamic environment in Sweden. The only thing that the government has done is to set up an investigation, the Inheritance Fund investigation, which submitted its final report in September 2018, which concluded that no mistakes had been made and that everything was in order. This is also the government's standard MO: You bury acute problems in investigations, hide behind officials and blame everything on someone else. However, if we are to look at the legal aspect of this, which is the subject of the investigation, the purpose of the funds from the General Heritage Fund is laid down in Sections 5 and 6 of the General Heritage Fund Act: Section 6 Support from the Fund must be given primarily to activities that are innovative and developing. Such support may also be provided, if deemed particularly urgent, to facilities, premises and equipment. ..................................................... If we take as an example organisations that have a clear connection with the Muslim Brotherhood – their aim is to combat the idea of a secular society and counteract democracy as government – can the Government explain which part of the purpose this falls under: Are children, young people or disabled people to benefit from this?
i-676f68619a776f8c-220	I would remind you that these are general rules on which the interpellation is concerned, not specific cases.
i-676f68619a776f8c-221	Mr. Old President! I do not think Mr Aspling is so interested in that comment because he continues to talk about individual applications and organisations. But I think there may be someone who listens to the debate and wonders how the General Heritage Fund actually works. For ongoing projects, the Inheritance Fund delegation can cancel its funding if the project in its implementation is contrary to the democratic values. If it turns out that an organisation does not meet the requirements, Kammarkollegiet will be able to recover funds paid out. According to the 2017 inheritance fund investigation, to which Mr Aspling refers, there is no evidence that funds from the general inheritance fund have been provided to organisations that do not respect democratic values. The Swedish National Audit Office has also reviewed the Swedish National Heritage Fund and made criticisms, but it is about accounting principles, not about the inappropriate use of inheritance funds. There is, of course, a continuous dialogue between the Government Office, Kammarkollegiet and the National Audit Office on this criticism. That is why we have a review of the General Heritage Fund, so that we will know how we need to change our governance or other activities in order for it to take place in the way we have decided. In 2019 Kammarkollegiet carried out extensive work to meet the criticisms concerning the financial year 2018. All areas have been investigated and addressed. But I would like to come back to the fact that, when it comes to democratic conditions, there is an ongoing investigation. That might sound simple. Ludvig Aspling can surely tell himself which organisations he thinks should get money and which ones should not get it. But as a government, we cannot sit and decide for ourselves who is to receive money, but we need to relate to something when we talk about democracy conditions. We must ensure that there are possibilities for authorities or, in this case, for the Inheritance Fund delegation to monitor compliance with democratic conditions. That investigation, as I said in my interpellation response, will be reported by summer 2021. It'll be very important. Someone may think it sounds simple, but I think we are all committed and interested in the fact that the condition of democracy is really handled with care and that it is right and properly done. Then, of course, we will apply it.
i-676f68619a776f8c-227	Mr. Old President! I have therefore presented the Government with the fact that the General Heritage Fund finances organisations aimed at combating democracy as an idea. In the interpellation response, the Government said: In its practice, the Inheritance Fund delegation applies a democratic condition whereby support is not given to organisations that are not on a democratic basis. That's obviously not true. Had there been such an informal democracy condition as the Government points out, the Islam Academy or the Muslim Brotherhood or the Muslim Brotherhood's various branch organizations in Sweden would not have received a crown of this money. But the million-dollar roll continues. The informal democracy criterion referred to by the Government is a chimare. The Government also says that a special investigator has been tasked with analysing the proposed democracy condition of the General Heritage Fund. The assignment must be presented by August 2021. This is only one way of putting the issue on the future. What the Social Democrats are really doing is buying the loyalty of these Islamic leaders through generous contributions in the hope that they will deliver votes to the Social Democracy. ( AGESPRESIDENT: With those accusations, the honourable Member is crossing the line. I would ask the honourable Member to stick to the subject. ) This is not good for Sweden's future.
i-676f68619a776f8c-233	Mr. Old President! Of course, we need to make sure that all the funds we spend go to organisations, projects and activities that work on the basis of the principles of human rights, the conventions that we have signed and much more. I hear Ludvig Aspling has the full list ready. I think everyone is very grateful that we establish such a list and criteria in a more objective way.
i-676f68619a776f8c-235	Mr. Old President! Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I have initiated any proposals or been the driving force in implementing the agenda for women, peace and security within the Swedish Armed Forces. She has also asked me if I have acted in order for the Swedish Armed Forces' exercises to include elements related to Resolution 1325. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked me whether I believe that the training provided to Sweden's conscripts on Resolution 1325 today is sufficient or whether I intend to promote any change in this regard. Finally, she has asked me if, now that the Swedish Action Plan 2016 – 2020 expires, I can explain what work on the Action Plan has led to the best results and how I have measured and evaluated that result. On 31 October 2000, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. Together with subsequent resolutions, these constitute the international agenda for women, peace and security. The government is working to integrate issues of women, peace and security into all work for peace and security. This applies to the Swedish Armed Forces as well as other authorities. According to a provision in the regulation with instructions for the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces shall operate in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1325 and 1820 on women, peace and security. Resolutions shall be taken into account in particular in training and in the planning, implementation and evaluation of operations. Sweden's national action plan, the third in the order since 2006, for the implementation of UN Security Council resolutions on women, peace and security 2016–2020, was decided by the Government on 28 April 2016. Work on the NAP will continue into the 20th century, initially in the form of the current plan. The Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities shall contribute to the implementation and receive an annual assignment in a regulatory letter with reporting requirements regarding the results of the work carried out and planned actions and activities. The overall result of the work of the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities is compiled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in an annual report published on the Government's website and used as a basis for the Government's reporting to the UN and the EU. The report shows that the Action Plan's focus on leadership, ownership and integration of the issues in regular operations has produced results. The Swedish Armed Forces have reported organisational measures, changes in working methods and processes, development of training and exercise activities, contributions with experts to international staff and international efforts, courses for senior officers, studies and research, manuals and internal control and control. As regards the implementation of training and training activities, this is a responsibility of the Swedish Armed Forces. With the governance provided by the government in both regulations and regulations and with the reporting that takes place, I can conclude that the work on 1325 is an integral part of the Swedish Armed Forces' operations.
i-676f68619a776f8c-238	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. Last week I helped my daughter and her friend with their homework in history. These included the 19th century, revolutions and the development of democracy that took place at the time. This morning I ran past the exhibition about democracy and the pictures of Kerstin Hesselgren. What fantastic work has been done over the last 150 years to strengthen women's rights in Sweden! I ran and thought about this debate. I was thinking about women's participation in conflict prevention and peace-building work. I was thinking about the responsibility we have to strengthen the work for women's security in armed conflicts. How is this done for real? How is it done so that it becomes a workshop for real? Women are exposed to a disproportionate amount of violence during war – I am thinking both of civilian death rates and of violence used as a war strategy to achieve different goals. For example, rapes by military and armed groups are used to divide communities, drive people out and show power. An important part is to increase women's power and political participation. What, then, is the situation right now in countries in which we are making international efforts? I am thinking, for example, of Mali, Afghanistan and Iraq. Although the Swedish Armed Forces integrate gender equality in military operational planning, challenges are often linked to structural problems and unequal structures. Sida highlights this well. In those parts of the world where there are prolonged crises or conflicts, there is a normalisation of gender-based violence – for example in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. They also highlight widespread corruption in state-building processes as a problem with direct consequences for women's rights. Mr. Old President! Last spring, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' second report from Sweden's work on the Third National Action Plan for the Implementation of UN Security Council Resolutions on Women, Peace and Security. There, as the Minister for Defence says, we can see that the action plan's focus on leadership, ownership and integration of issues in ordinary operations has produced results. At the same time, one of the final recommendations is that it is important to develop clear performance targets linked to the Action Plan's thematic priorities and focus countries and ensure that they are synchronised with other processes and frameworks for gender equality and gender mainstreaming. In addition, it is important that there is a clear and comprehensive vision of where the agency is going in order to make the implementation of the action plan more effective. ..................................................... Mr. Old President! In my interpellation, I have asked four questions. One is just about results follow-up. It reads: Now that the Swedish Action Plan 2016 – 2020 expires, what work with the Action Plan can the Minister report on which has led to the best results, and how has the Minister measured and evaluated that result? I do not feel that I am getting a direct answer from the Minister to that question. Perhaps it is because there are in fact no clear targets or clear follow-up of results.
i-676f68619a776f8c-249	Mr. Old President! As regards the practical work carried out, the Swedish Armed Forces report annually the results of the implementation of planned measures and activities to the Ministry of Defence. The next reporting for 2020 will take place after the end of the year. Reporting for 2019 shows that the Swedish Armed Forces have continued to systematise the work to ensure the quality of implementation of the action plan. The focus has been on the development and implementation of a militaryly adapted training concept, interventional training, research, gender mainstreaming of strategic and operational governance, gender equality perspectives in the national context in the form of work in the framework of the TFÖ 2020 exercise and the continued commitment of leadership within the Gender Coach programme and on the international stage. A natural part of education is exercises. For example, the training for an international effort includes a variety of training packages, of which 1325 is one, in order to be able to operate in the field of action. It is an example of how this is put into practice in the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. That's a result. In other exercises that include staff and planning work, 1325 is included as a planning factor in the preparation of plans and in the analysis and evaluation of implementation. In order to make this possible, it is necessary for the Swedish Armed Forces to do as the Swedish Armed Forces do: to include this subject in method training and other support for planning. Education is one of the cornerstones of this implementation process. The Swedish Armed Forces have developed manuals and introduced an interactive online training in gender equality in military operations last year. The course aims to increase employees' understanding and ability to integrate a gender perspective into the planning, implementation and follow-up of military operations. With regard to compulsory military training, which is another issue that is being raised, I think it is something that needs to be looked at extra. The government will take some steps specifically to follow up so that we get women, peace and security properly. It is not the same as not working on the issue, but I see a particular need to follow up on this. During the period, exercise activities at a higher level have been carried out in, among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces exercise in 2017 and in the exercise preparations for the Total Defence exercise that has run during the year. It is important that it is practiced at these levels, as it affects processes and policies. We look forward to the accounting that the Swedish Armed Forces will make after the turn of the year so that we also get it on paper. Then we will analyse how we proceed. What I can say, however, is that this is a properly prioritised issue in the armed forces leadership, in which efforts are constantly being made to develop this work within the framework of their organisation. This is not something you put aside or think is a burdensome task, but it is an important task that you take seriously. We follow it up in both regulatory letters and in the annual reports that come from the Swedish Armed Forces, and the next reporting, for 2020, takes place after the end of the year.
i-676f68619a776f8c-257	Mr. Old President! Now is the time to take new decisions on international action in Mali, Iraq and Afghanistan. In the previous bill concerning Mali, for example, we could read about the national objectives of the operation that Sweden, through the feminist foreign policy, is working to strengthen women's and girls' influence and empowerment and to enjoy human rights. Furthermore, we read that Sweden as a participant in the operation will support and accelerate efforts to implement UN Security Council Resolution 1325. In the new bill to be decided before Christmas, the government reports that women's participation in the implementation of the peace agreement has been very limited. It's tragic. Mr. Old President! However, some form of high-level meeting was held in January, but after that a lot has happened in Mali. There are quite extensive events in the country, like a military coup. The human rights situation is very worrying. Violation and abuse are reported regularly. It is about sexual violence and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. The new bill states that one of the national objectives is that Sweden, as a participant in the operation, should support and accelerate efforts to implement UN Security Council Resolution 1325(2000) on women peace and security, including subsequent resolutions. Mr. Old President! It is clear that Sweden will support and accelerate efforts to implement 1325. But it's just a lot of nice words if you don't follow it up and see what actually gets done. If you do what you've always done, it's what it's always been, I think. This year, 2020, resolution 1325 celebrates 20 years of women's peace and security. The women and children of Mali, Afghanistan and Iraq are particularly vulnerable. Many die unnecessarily in war, where women should be allowed to be a part of arriving at peace. Fine words must be put into practice. The Secretary of Defense said this isn't something you put aside. I wonder what the early champions of women's rights and democracy would say to us. Both democracy and gender equality are something that we must of course work for every day even now. I think it's time to roll up your sleeves and take one problem at a time. These are structural challenges and unequal norms and power structures, shrinking space for civil society and external collaboration partners, challenges related to collaboration, resources and opportunities for implementation, internal processes, institutionalisation and development of gender equality work and practical conditions internally and externally applicable implementation. It is the case, Mr President-in-Office, that we will only keep war in check when women have equal participation in decision-making and equal access to education and resources, that is, power. There is a need for courageous politicians, measurable targets and follow-up of results. More women need to be trained as mediators, advisors and commanders. Women are crucial in all areas of peace and security. If their perspective is left out and their voices are not heard, war will continue to break out. Conflicts that have been resolved will flare up again, as we have seen evidence of around the world.
i-676f68619a776f8c-267	Mr. Old President! When I listen, it sounds like no one ever does anything and that what may be done is of no value. I definitely can't agree with that. In Kungsängen outside Stockholm we have something called Nordic Centre for Gender in Military Operations. This centre was established in 2012 within the Swedish Armed Forces and has worked very hard to integrate gender equality in military operations. The unit is a well-established player and works with support to integrate a gender perspective into the planning, implementation and evaluation of military peace operations. This is a unit working with the whole world as a field of work, and staff from all parts of the world are trained. This is about training for the integration of gender equality in practice, collaborations and advice related to policy and what is called process development. The Swedish Armed Forces have also for a long time contributed with experts with this background and base to international staffs and international efforts and work there to have these issues updated all the time and also make it a practical part of the peace work. I would like to say that it is a very important piece of work that also produces concrete results. In the areas of inclusive peace processes, peace building, conflict prevention and enhanced protection for women and girls, the Swedish Armed Forces actively work internationally with contributions to various missions, with intervention-preparatory training, through courses with international participation and through collaboration with other countries and organisations in everything from practice to policy of holistic approach to conflicts, all actors and society as a whole. The aim is to build lasting peace processes that counteract the recurrence of conflict. That is the purpose of the work being done. Mali is a complex and complex area. That whole part of Africa needs constant stabilisation, and there are an enormous number of challenges there. In that environment, we try to work from these perspectives. I usually bring up such issues myself, especially with female soldiers I meet in different contexts – how they experience the work in their units and units. I am fully confident that the Swedish Armed Forces are working on the issues, I am fully confident that we are making a difference in international efforts and I am fully confident that the work will matter. Then we may not be able to solve all the problems we face on the ground in difficult situations. This is a concerted operation with many units. I would remind you that, for example, the UN operation Minusma, in which we have been involved for over five years, includes 10 000 soldiers. Sweden currently has 175 participants in that operation. Sweden is part of the international spectrum. We try everything we can to influence in a positive direction. I believe that what our staff do is important, and they carry out the work in a serious manner.
i-676f68619a776f8c-276	Madam President, I would like There are lots of things being done and we make a difference," says the Secretary of Defense. And I agree. But I think it's by following up results that we can know what to do next. It is in the monitoring of results that we can get to the needs and efforts that are really needed, which make a difference. It is in the follow-up of results that we must be able to question decisions and activities, perhaps even dare to challenge old truths in order to achieve set goals. This year, as I said, the resolution on women, peace and security, resolution 1325, celebrates 20 years. With the adoption of the resolution on 31 October 2000, the UN Security Council called for the first time that all parties to a conflict must prevent the violation of women's rights, support women's participation in peace negotiations and post-conflict reconstruction, and protect women and girls from sexual violence during conflict. The question is whether we could have gone further. We don't really know that. But I believe, Madam President, that with a better and clearer follow-up of results, we should at least have known more today than we are doing about what needs and efforts are producing results, which we can continue to do more of in that case. I think it is important that we in Sweden live as we learn. There is still a good way to go to a more equal defence force, even if it is moving in the right direction. If the Swedish Armed Forces are to work with Resolution 1325 internationally, it will increase credibility if you live up to the ideals yourself.
i-676f68619a776f8c-279	Madam President, I would like I would just like to point out once again that the Swedish Armed Forces report annually to the Ministry on the results of the implementation of measures based on Resolution 1325 and on ambitions for gender equality. The next reporting for 2020 will take place after the end of the year. That's how it is every year. Based on the reports that come in with an account of the business, conclusions are drawn. In this way, the regulatory letters that we deliver to the authorities and the Swedish Armed Forces will be developed. I wanted to say this so that there is no shadow of the Armed Forces not taking the issue seriously or not handling it seriously. The Swedish Armed Forces are doing extensive and good work. There is a clear awareness and priority of these issues in the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership. I believe that there is a serious ambition, and I know that when things happen that are not reasonable or acceptable out on the units, they are dealt with as soon as there is knowledge of them. Then there was the question of the Security Council. Sweden sat there and promoted the UN Security Council resolution on women, peace and security. It was a central and priority issue. Sweden played a role in raising the issue within the framework of the UN system. I think you should remember that. It is my assessment that Sweden has played a positive role. We have many challenges ahead of us in all kinds of areas, including this. But we should not belittle the efforts already made.
i-676f68619a776f8c-284	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me the following: A robust electricity and energy supply with high security of supply, low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices is a fundamental prerequisite for a modern and well-functioning society and for the climate transition with increased electrification. Access to electricity in Sweden is good. During 2019, Sweden exported a record amount of electricity with very low carbon dioxide emissions, and even during the year, net exports have been very large. No electric consumers have had to be disconnected due to power shortages in Sweden. I can note that the Swedish Companies Agency's venereal power network estimates the risk of power shortage in Sweden as still low. At the same time, I am aware that there have been challenges with local capacity in some parts of Sweden. The government and the network companies in Malmö and Stockholm took a joint initiative last autumn to ensure the capacity in Malmö and Stockholm, both in the short and long term. At the same time, the Government instructed the Swedish Energy Market Authority to investigate and propose measures to ensure capacity in other parts of Sweden. The mission was handed over to the Government on 1 October 2020. The Government will analyse the proposals in order to ensure that responsible actors take the necessary measures to ensure that there is capacity for existing customers and that additional customers receive electricity within a reasonable time. I would also like to point out in this context that Swedish power networks are making historically large investments in the capacity of new electricity grids. The next three-year period is planned for investments of SEK 17 billion, compared with SEK 7 billion in the last three years. The project Sydwestlinken has unfortunately been edged by delays but will improve the situation in southern Sweden. Swedish power grids expect to take the new cable into operation on 18 December. With regard to the issue of a supply security target, I would like to mention that the Energy Market Inspection has a mandate to develop a reliability standard. The report shall be presented to the Government by 26 February 2021. My view is that we need to wait for it to take the basis from the Energy Market Inspectorate before the government can decide what should be done in the next step. A continued robust electricity and energy supply with high security of supply requires action from several different actors. I assume that everyone takes their share of responsibility, and at the same time I am open to taking new action if need arises.
i-676f68619a776f8c-291	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for the answer to my interpellation. In recent times, situations have arisen in which there is a raw shortage of electricity, which is a problem which is partly not entirely new but which may also arise if there is a lack of power in terms of production not covering demand or if there is insufficient capacity to transmit the electricity. It is a problem that the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly raised in the energy policy debate. Representatives of the government parties and also the Government in this debate counterbalance that we export a record amount of electricity and that we are net exporters of electricity seen all year round. This is rather irrelevant to this problem, because electricity cannot be stored. Electricity is consumed at the moment it is produced, and for it to work, sufficient power and transmission capacity is required at any given moment. The consequence if there is a shortage of something, whether it is production or transmission, is that we have a shortage of electricity. It does not take into account the way it looked earlier in the year. Thus, during the six years of the Red-Green parties' government power, the balance of effects has deteriorated every single year. The question is whether a corresponding trend has ever been observed in Sweden. There, the Government has the opportunity to defend itself. The background to this is that the average capacity factor has fallen in the power system because the government exclusively rewarded weather-dependent power generation and in various ways, directly or indirectly, penalised planned power generation. The lack of capacity in electricity networks has become more evident as a result of the growth of cities without strengthening and modernising electricity networks at a corresponding pace, which affects both households and industry. Regular rapid tax increases have also weakened the competitiveness of cogeneration, which has exacerbated the problem of local capacity shortages. It has forced the government on the track with various special solutions, and the development is moving towards more politics and less market. During July, the spot price in southern Sweden was almost ten times as high as the system price that applied to the whole country. There have never been such large price differences since Sweden was divided into four price areas, which enabled the reserve power plant in Karlshamn to burn oil on a commercial basis in the middle of the summer. Swedish power networks were also forced into bilateral agreements for the operation of the Ringhals 1 nuclear reactor. It was possible this summer but will not be possible in the coming summers, when the reactor is planned to be set off for good at the turn of the year – a decision that should be reconsidered. If you look at the forecasts that Swedish power networks are making for the future, you can see that the power balance is also decreasing for the next three winters. The question then, Madam President, is whether the Government is not concerned that we are moving in the wrong direction, as nothing indicates the opposite.
i-676f68619a776f8c-300	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson asks if I am worried. Yeah, on one point, I'm actually worried. The energy industry and the government presented a joint initiative to ensure increased investments in electricity networks, to ensure cogeneration and energy production in Malmö and Stockholm and to ensure that we could move from fossil fuels to renewable fuels. However, when that initiative was to be implemented, Mattias Bäckström Johansson and the Swedish Democrats voted against it. If the government were not to continue to act to push this initiative forward, it would mean a sharp deterioration in capacity in Malmö, in southern Sweden and in Stockholm. This would mean that cogeneration is at risk of being shut down in our largest city and that many new users cannot be connected to the electricity grid. If Mattias Bäckström Johansson is seriously concerned about the capacity situation in southern Sweden, why did he vote against the initiative taken by the government and the energy industry to ensure that capacity?
i-676f68619a776f8c-304	Madam President, I would like What the Government is highlighting is the consequences of the government's policy. It goes out and shocks the taxes on cogeneration and throws out a waste incineration tax. It has consequences that could not have been predicted, but which are rejected because it is not on the government's table, but is a matter for municipal politicians. It is not believed that this will lead to any problems. However, it does, and then we have to put forward a package that will deal with the consequences of the economic policy we have been pursuing with different handshake. Yes, of course something has to be done. The Swedish Democrats are not in principle opposed to using the previously unused space within the revenue framework for various measures. But the fact that all parties in the Swedish parliament who are not in the government did not support the proposal that the government came to Parliament was because it was extremely substandard. How many proposals on the part of this government meet with complete opposition from the Riksdag because it does not meet the criteria set? There are no mechanisms in the proposal that lead to investments to increase electricity grid capacity. On the contrary, the electricity grid companies could reduce their investments and still take part in the roll-over that existed. It is also the case that the forecasts for the impact balance and the lack of capacity are based on the conditions we have in the near future. If we are to succeed in reducing our fossil dependence, which, according to all assessors, is to be done by electrification, this risks becoming a major obstacle. If companies and industries are to electrify, it is necessary to dare to do so. Then one must have access to electricity and know that this will continue to be the case in the future. In addition, Swedish power networks flag up for the continued closure of nuclear power and possible cogeneration leading to an increased risk of power shortage and for the system to become more difficult to plan as weather dependence increases. Swedish power networks also highlight a fact that the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly pointed out, and it is the risk that deficiencies occur simultaneously in our neighbourhood. Today, we are dependent on importing electricity from our neighbours during the hours when we have the highest electricity consumption. We can see that Sweden is not alone in this. It is something we have not had in decades, but we are moving into a negative territory. Denmark expects to be able to import during this hour. Germany expects to be able to import during this hour. Poland expects to be able to import during this hour. The Baltic states expect to be able to import during this hour, and Finland expects to be able to import during this hour. The risk is that it happens at the same time and that everyone has expected to be able to import each other. The consequences for electricity supply are brutal. One becomes very vulnerable when one develops energy systems towards such harmonisation. The current impact balance has now declined for six years in a row, and in the analyses carried out for the next few years we can see that it is also planned to decrease in the next three years. Is it really the Government's view that the negative trend in the balance of effects will turn around? Is there any evidence of that at all?
i-676f68619a776f8c-313	Madam President, I would like It was a long post from Mattias Bäckström Johansson with some strange things that I had to dissect. It is true that Mattias Bäckström Johansson says that all nuclear power nations in our surrounding world are counting on and dependent on being able to import electricity – so is Sweden. But it is also the case that Sweden every peak load hour not only imports electricity but also exports electricity. That is how a market works. You can both import and export, and almost always import and export Sweden at the same time. In this way we benefit from each other's electricity systems and get more efficient energy systems and competitive energy prices for consumers. Sweden has the most competitive electricity price in Europe and a larger surplus of electricity produced than most. Mattias Bäckström Johansson says that he is in favour of energy companies rolling over previous years' revenue frames. But when the proposal has been on the table and he has had the opportunity to guarantee capacity in Malmö, the ability to guarantee capacity in Skåne, the ability to guarantee cogeneration and the possibility to guarantee increased electricity grid investments, then Mattias Bäckström Johansson has voted against it. And when he in this House, Madam President, is asked why he and the Swedish Democrats have voted against, yes, then his main argument is that the others voted against. But, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, why did the Swedish Democrats vote against the capacity enhancements in Skåne that guarantee Skåne's electricity users electricity for ten years to come and that all known electricity users can be connected in Skåne? And if the decision taken by Mattias Bäckström Johansson becomes a reality, what has he to say to the actors who are concerned about the lack of capacity in Skåne?
i-676f68619a776f8c-317	Madam President, I would like I can understand that the Government is upset. All parties in parliament that are not part of the government voted against the proposal. The Swedish Democrats were clear on what premises they intend to support it, but the government has chosen not to have a dialogue with the Riksdag on how the proposal should be designed. You've just driven on and driven in the ditch completely. At the same time, efforts are being made to deal with the secondary effects of the economic policies that have been pursued, which are in danger of being disastrous for large parts of the country. To conclude, Madam President, I would nevertheless like to thank the Minister for the debate. However, our view is that energy policy needs to be changed in order to be able to respond seriously to the developments we are seeing in electrification. There, issues related to power and capacity shortages are very important to ensure that you dare electrify. It is necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of cogeneration and not, as the government has done during its term of office, to undermine it. Efforts are needed for the new generation of nuclear power – all fossil-free energy sources are to be welcomed. Globally, electricity generation from nuclear power increased for the seventh consecutive year, but in Sweden the trend is the opposite. Here nuclear power takes on a rather languishing existence under the red-green government. We need a security of supply target that can be pursued by policy, and there is a need for significantly higher ambitions in order to shorten lead times for new network concessions and to build out bottlenecks in transmission capacity. It is of course a good thing, Madam President, that the Government nevertheless says that it wants a robust electricity and energy supply with a high level of security of supply, but the reality shows a different outcome. One might ask whether it is precisely this development and reality that we will get even more off the government's policy and hide behind the fine words that we wear in this. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that's the way it is.
i-676f68619a776f8c-322	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for a good debate. I just want to make a little clarification. The government has had a very good dialogue with the Riksdag on the proposal, but not with Mattias Bäckström Johansson and the Swedish Democrats. I hope that we will be able to put a new proposal on Parliament's table. Whether this becomes a reality remains to be seen. We have tripled the investment in network transmission. Together with the energy industry, we have taken a joint initiative that guarantees increased capacity and impact. The Swedish Democrats have voted against this. Instead, Mattias Bäckström Johansson says that what is required are investments in the next generation of nuclear power plants. We have an energy agreement that makes it free for the market to invest. But what if Mattias Bäckström Johansson got his way, regardless of this, and massive investments were made with taxpayers' money in subsidising the next generation of nuclear energy – from market to government subsidies à la Sverigedemokraterna. Then I guess those reactors would be in place if, guess, 20 or 30 years. The Finns would probably have inaugurated their nuclear power 12 years ago, but it still has not delivered a single watt. They cannot even light a Christmas tree lighting with it even though it would account for a large part of the power supply. It would do nothing for the capacity and impact situation today, or even tomorrow. So we can probably write off that solution even if you can dream of different types of energy. Solutions to today's power and capacity situation must be robust and present here and now. These solutions have been on Parliament's table. Mattias Bäckström Johansson and the Swedish Democrats have voted against them. Let us hope that the Swedish Democrats will not do so again!
i-676f68619a776f8c-326	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me if I am prepared to do something about the Transport Agency being able to make decisions that make it impossible for a municipality to live up to its agreement with the state. The Finnish Transport Agency has the task of providing information for the areas that the Finnish Transport Agency assesses are of national interest in terms of communications. The county government then monitors national interests in municipal planning. I have learned that work is currently under way at Trafikverket to clarify the national interest of air transport at Arlanda Airport. In the event that a county administrative board decides to revoke a municipality's decision on detailed plans or site regulations due to a national interest according to Chapter 3 or 4. If the environmental code is not complied with, the decision may be appealed to the Government. As Minister of State, I cannot comment on matters relating to the application of law and which are dealt with by the authorities.
i-676f68619a776f8c-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. I am convinced that we fully agree that housing construction, the development of public transport and the possibility of building new infrastructure in the future are important issues. In all Stockholm municipalities there is currently a shortage of housing, and many young people are forced to live at home longer than they want because it is difficult for them to get their first home and enter the housing market. We also see in many cities in Sweden the need for investment and expansion of infrastructure in general and public transport in particular. The wish list of projects is long, and it is evident not least now that work on the national plan begins. Infrastructure is expensive, and when Sweden's negotiations were initiated it was a lot about finding more ways to finance and not least opportunities for co-financing from regions and municipalities. Municipalities also have limited finances, and one way of being able to co-finance investments in infrastructure and public transport is to build housing or, more precisely, to sell land so that others can build. In addition to new housing, which is also part of the Swedish negotiation, this gives income to the municipalities. Part of Sweden's negotiations is about increasing the capacity of public transport for Stockholm Nordost. The state has entered into agreements with the municipalities and supported the extension of Roslagsbanan to Stockholm city via Odenplan. With its plans for so-called noise impact areas around Arlanda, the Swedish Transport Agency can now make it impossible for more housing to develop. The result is that there will be a wet blanket over the development in the municipality of Vallentuna in particular, which may limit the development even for nearby municipalities. This is done at the same time as in many other countries where you have similar problems point out fairways in the air to minimize the impact areas on the ground rather than, as Vallentuna has now encountered, whole areas are basically subject to construction bans. In the long run, this threatens parts of Sweden's negotiations. Vallentuna has undertaken to build a large number of homes, which will finance, among other things, the extension of Roslagsbanan. Österåker and Täby also co-finance. This would open up great opportunities for thousands of people to live and work in the area and to go collectively to work. Now some of this important project, not least the public transport project, is threatened by simply not being able to sell land for building housing. When the decision on Arlanda's new environmental permit was to be taken, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency appealed against the permit and pushed through a departure from the traffic noise regulation which imposed a limit of 65 decibels in the impact area instead of the 70 decibels mentioned in the traffic noise regulation. This decision takes little account of technological developments and of a future increasingly quiet infrastructure. In the case of Vallentuna, this is a game changer which means that larger areas than necessary are subject to a construction ban. The plans to extend Roslagsbanan to City via Odenplan risk being pushed to the future. I see this as an example of inadequate government control. The Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can't work in silos. They have to look at the whole and other commitments that the state has. Is the government prepared to review the governance of the state works so that a better overall response can be achieved and more housing can be built?
i-676f68619a776f8c-339	Madam President, I would like On the substance of the matter, I have made it clear that as a minister I cannot go into or intervene in an ongoing case where the Swedish Transport Administration has provided the basis for a decision. In the event of an appeal, it will be on my table, among other things, to make a decision. That's why I'll be careful to make a statement. Generally speaking, it is interesting that Maria Stockhaus is now highlighting Sweden's negotiations – but apparently only in the Stockholm area. The Swedish negotiations also include the construction of new main roads and the possibility of new infrastructure investments. This applies not only to Roslagsbanan but also to main tracks in Linköping, Norrköping, Borås, Jönköping and Hässleholm. This is interesting. I hope that the Moderates will nevertheless support the Swedish negotiation proposal. In any case, Moderates do so in these regions. They see the conditions to be able to build more housing throughout Sweden and not only in the Stockholm area. The reason I ask is that the Moderates have obviously changed their mind since they started the process with Sweden. But now, at national level, there is not fully support for an initiative that provides opportunities for housing construction throughout the country. Although this is an infrastructure debate, the interpellier also lifts up housing construction. It should perhaps be remembered in this context that the Moderates are making substantial, not to say brutal, savings in support of housing construction. For example, they want to reduce investment aid by a total of almost SEK 4 billion – 3.1 billion plus a no to energy efficiency in multi-residential buildings. The Moderates choose to make quite large savings in their budget option. After all, we know that investment aid has been crucial to the construction of housing in many parts of the country. It is important that we make sure that we get the construction of housing going in the country. We've had that in our reign years. And it is good that we find both good incentives and good regulations for that. But in the part concerning the Swedish negotiation, I am interested to hear whether Maria Stockhaus is equally committed to the issue of housing construction and conditions in other parts of the country than just Stockholm.
i-676f68619a776f8c-344	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are interested in housing being built throughout Sweden. What is important is to look at the socio-economic profitability of the investments for which tax money is spent. As far as housing is concerned, it is important to expand the commuting areas and not focus on end stations, as is largely the case with high-speed trains. This applies not least in view of what has happened now with the Swedish Transport Administration's response that says that the project should be reduced to 205 billion. No expert, I know, believes that this is possible at all. The stations have now been relocated so that the value of being able to commute within different regions has been completely removed. There are many questions around the high-speed train. Before we spend the amount of money involved, we need to ensure that there is a socio-economicly reasonable calculation to make such an investment. Madam President, I would like In terms of climate targets, it is important that we get the opportunity to travel collectively and that the construction can take place by expanding urban areas and building in public transport near locations. The processes are long and the costs of building in certain situations are very high at present with the noise regulations we have and the actions of the authorities involved, including the state's extended arm county boards. Moreover, it can be difficult to build at all. As I said in my previous speech, we must, of course, reserve land for future infrastructure investments, but it must be done with the focus that it should affect the amount of buildable land to as little extent as possible. In addition to Vallentuna, there are more examples where the Swedish Transport Administration wants to reserve land. It's about the Eastern Connection. I understand that the Minister for Infrastructure cannot comment on individual cases. But here, too, the Swedish Transport Administration has taken in suspenders and belt straps. The Swedish Transport Agency has excluded very large areas in a place that is prime location in Stockholm, with the possibility to build very many homes. You pull the carpet away here for parts of the project. Several thousand homes are in danger of disappearing here because one does not point out a place where one can imagine having the eastern connection. Instead, it identifies a number of different options and wants all of them to be of national interest. I think this is an important discussion of principle. It is not a question of individual projects, it is a question of a pattern. The Government's extended arm of the county administrative board, the Finnish Transport Administration and, in the case of Vallentuna, also the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, i.e. a number of government works, have the task of monitoring different parts of the legislation. But they do not have a clear mission to look at the whole: How should one relate to other government commitments that exist in the Swedish negotiations? How should one view the construction of housing, which should reasonably be a national interest? You can't work in the silo, you have to make sure it's all fair. You can't take too much of the land. This must be on their mission. I would like to hear from a more general perspective how the Minister for Infrastructure sees on a specific mission to in this case the Swedish Transport Administration to try to minimize the land affected by the reservations. One could have it in one's mission to ensure that as much buildable land as possible remains.
i-676f68619a776f8c-352	Madam President, I would like Basically, these conflicts always exist, not least in the construction of infrastructure investments in Sweden. Not long ago, I took part in an interpellation debate on arable land. There was, of course, the same kind of conflict. We in Sweden have taken very many steps in recent years to combine planning, implementation and construction of infrastructure with residential construction. This has been done not least thanks to the approach that the Swedish negotiation had and which we announced in the previous national plan. Thus, the planning and implementation of infrastructure should also take into account and create opportunities for housing construction. It simplifies and coordinates planning processes in a completely different way than before. For this reason, we can see that, for example, a four track investment between Stockholm and Uppsala can provide the opportunity for up to 50 000 homes. Along new main roads you can see a possible investment in housing construction for up to 100,000 homes. Maria Stockhaus is most interested in the part of the Swedish negotiation that concerns Stockholm and not the one that concerns other parts of the country. I think that the approach should be the same in Stockholm as in other parts of the country. This means that we will create the conditions for building society and housing when we build infrastructure. But our authorities, whether it be the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Finnish Transport Agency or, as in this case, the County Administrative Board, also have to comply with the laws and regulations that Maria Stockhaus herself has been involved in making decisions in the Swedish Parliament. It is about the noise regulations and other laws and regulations that exist. These can then be appealed, and when something is appealed, it lands with the government. That is why I am not speaking on a case-by-case basis. Generally speaking, authorities will of course collaborate, even with municipalities and regions, to find smart solutions that allow us to build even more infrastructure. It will be necessary to broaden commuting in labour market regions. At the same time, it allows us to continue to speed up the construction of housing after the low volume we had after a period of government that did not engage in the conditions to get the construction of housing going.
i-676f68619a776f8c-357	Madam President, I would like These are important issues for Sweden's future. Interestingly, I had a meeting just before the interpellation debate where the discussion about planning processes, among other things, came up. The frustration of the person I spoke to was very great. It was said that the difficulties in building were enormous, not least in terms of major infrastructure investments. The processes are extremely long because of the regulations for construction and the possibilities for individuals to appeal. Although the authorities have the task of ensuring compliance with the legislation, there is reason for all of us to be self-critical in view of the system we have created. This makes it considerably more difficult, takes longer time and is more expensive to build important infrastructure. It becomes very clear if you look around the world and see how quickly others can get to build all kinds of infrastructure investments. On the other hand, we end up in lengthy processes in order to take account of noise regulations which, in turn, have not taken into account the fact that technology has been developed for how it is affected inside housing. No account is taken of other modernisations that have taken place. There is reason to review the regulatory framework. In this case, I think that the Swedish Transport Administration should have the task, when considering national interests, to ensure that as little land as possible is used in infrastructure investments. There must be as much buildable land as possible left. That is the question I would like to put to the Minister for Infrastructure. Is the Minister and the Government prepared, without taking a stand in an individual case, to review the commission to the Swedish Transport Administration to ensure that wet blankets are not unnecessarily laid over large areas of land?
i-676f68619a776f8c-361	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that land which does not need to be used for the construction of infrastructure should not be used unnecessarily. Of course, if it is possible to use it for residential construction or other purposes, it should be the starting point. This is the case with arable land, and this is the case with housing. That conflict is well known. It is clear that coordination must work in such a way that the best possible social benefits can be achieved. I recently commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration and the county administrative boards to look at the planning process to see if we can simplify it in order to implement major infrastructure investments faster. Among other things, it was after concern both in Västerbotten and Norrbotten during the construction of Norrbotniabanan but also along Ostlänken, where the County Governor said that there is a risk that there will be problems with large projects, with the planning process that exists. Now we have let Trafikverket and the County Administrative Board come up with some different types of proposals to facilitate here. One of them is to advance funds for infrastructure investments to the county administrative boards – a small part to facilitate an early administrative process and thus come forward more quickly. When we compare with how fast things are going in countries such as China or other countries in the world in terms of investment in and construction of infrastructure, we should be aware, not least in this House, that the fundamental difference is that we in Sweden have opportunities both for individuals and for municipalities and regions to say stop because environmental values are seriously threatened or because they want to be part of the decision-making process. It is a good democratic order that we must have the strength and energy to defend in the Swedish Parliament.
i-676f68619a776f8c-365	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me two questions about the Swedish Transport Agency's handling of traffic permits for professional traffic. The government and the responsible authorities in the transport sector have acted to mitigate the impact on companies of the coronapandemine. As far as the Swedish Transport Agency is concerned, the authority has made a number of decisions to make it easier for companies and individuals. These include efforts to streamline and simplify the handling of cases. At the same time, it is important to emphasise the importance of ensuring that efficiency and simplification do not affect the Authority's ability to carry out legal and qualitative case assessments. With regard to EU rules on professional road transport, it is necessary that commercial road transport operators have one or more vehicles and that these are used continuously. The Swedish Transport Agency normally allows a six-month period for companies to notify vehicles for commercial use, which is the maximum time allowed under EU law. The Swedish Transport Agency's industry dialogue underlines the importance of contacting the authority in cases where the company receives a notification that a traffic permit may be revoked. When companies notify the authority, companies may be given a period of grace with their notification and thus prevent the withdrawal of authorisations. In addition to this, the Swedish Transport Agency has also given extended time to come in with various documents and documentation, both in the case of a permit application and in the case of supervision, in order to facilitate serious companies affected by the pandemic in various ways. I will continue to work to ensure that the handling of cases by the authorities is effective and legally secure.
i-676f68619a776f8c-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! Placing vehicles and drivers at the disposal of the public requires authorisation for the occupation of road transport operator. It can be freight, and it can also be passenger traffic. The authority that has to deal with this is the Swedish Transport Agency. They examine that you have the conditions necessary to obtain a permit. They also keep on looking at whether you are doing well, so that nothing happens during the journey. They are therefore also a supervisory authority. The basis for obtaining a driving licence is that you are actually and firmly established in a Member State, have a good reputation, have sufficient financial resources and have the necessary professional skills. That is what Article 3 of EU Regulation 1071 says. What has happened now during the pandemic is that there will be long processing times. If you are going to apply for a new traffic permit, the processing time is nine weeks, and it does not matter if you have had an activity in the past and have been away from the transport sector and then come back. That's way too long. If we look at what is stated in the Administrative Act, we see that there are higher demands on an authority. Nine weeks is 45 working days, which is equivalent to 360 working hours. I also realise that they do not sit and lukewarm during each hour of work for nine weeks, but that is too long to administer a decently simple matter. However it is in these times when people are becoming unemployed, there are companies that both start up and expand operations, and then the authorities must be a little faster in their way of dealing with it. Then nine weeks' processing time is not acceptable. There are some elements in the Minister's response that I would like to develop. It says, among other things, that there are efforts to streamline and simplify the handling of cases. At the same time, it is important to emphasise the importance of ensuring that efficiency and simplification do not affect the Authority's ability to carry out legal and qualitative case assessments. ..................................................... It is quite clear, but it is also going on, I would say, some unnecessary work which, so to speak, is detracting from the efficiency of the agency's own work. We need to make efficient use of resources in order to get as much as possible done on the day without, for that reason, imposing legal certainty. During this period, some companies have received letters from the Authority stating that their authorisation is to be revoked because they have vehicles that are decommissioned. You can do an activity that is not really based on transport but where transport is part of the company's business. Since demand is now very low, especially for passenger transport, when people are told to stay at home, they put their vehicle in wait for it to get better while the other part of the company is rolling on. But then Transportstyrelsen is there and is leaving and wants to revoke the permit. It is not acceptable to put so much gunpowder on something that is not really necessary. Then it is better to spend it on getting a faster procedure for those who want to start up today.
i-676f68619a776f8c-380	Madam President, I would like Regarding Thomas Morell's argument on how the Swedish Transport Agency's work continues and that there is some unnecessary work going on, to quote Thomas Morell, the Swedish Transport Agency during the pandemic has handled thousands and thousands of cases in order to create the best conditions for those working in the haulage industry and other industries during a crisis, create opportunities to postpone certifications or regulations and find ways to make it easier for anyone who ensures that Transport Sweden is kept rolling. I can imagine that many of the officials working at the Swedish Transport Agency have had to spend as many hours as possible during this time to facilitate and ensure that Sweden is kept rolling. We have seen how freight transport has been able to function even though we are in the midst of a pandemic, how we have been able to ensure food security and import and export, how the haulage industry has been able to function, how we have been able to find smart and good solutions for different certification requirements, whether it was YKB, which Thomas Morell and I have debated in the past, or other types of permits. I would say that we have really tried to do our utmost to do the best we can in the midst of a pandemic, with the care we should have for employees working in the government sector. It is clear that I know that this must be the starting point even when the Swedish Transport Agency is working today. Therefore, the regulatory framework is also such that one can of course warn through industry dialogue and say that one wants evidence to come in early, so that the circumstances can be taken into account in particular. Care has also been taken sometimes to give extended time to submit applications in order to take account of the crisis and the situation. I find it difficult for an agitation in which one is so clearly trying to say that the authorities would almost deliberately make it more difficult. This is not a fact. The government criticism that the Swedish Democrats sometimes engage in, we recognise from other countries and other contexts. But we have a situation where we should rather build on common trust and trust that, in the various roles that exist, we are all making an effort to solve the societal challenge that we are currently facing: a pandemic that affects not least the transport sector very hard. It is clear that the task of the Swedish Transport Agency is to supervise and comply with the regulations that the Riksdag has laid down and which the Government has in some case established through different types of regulations. Are there regulations that need to be changed? Then let's find out about these! During this pandemic, we have listed a number of changes that we have also implemented – precisely to facilitate. But we cannot have a system in which the Swedish Transport Agency itself chooses to depart from decisions made democratically in the Swedish Parliament. Instead, they draw the attention of Parliament and not least the government to the fact that there is reason to make a change, as in the case of YKB, so that we can make it even more easier for the transport industry. I very much hope that Thomas Morell will nevertheless see the benefits and importance of having a transport board that, during this time, is working properly and intensively to make it easier for the Swedish transport industry.
i-676f68619a776f8c-387	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Criticism can be expressed without being accused, for that matter, of wanting to overthrow any form of activity. That's not what it's all about. What it's all about is the people who work and work. There are an enormous number of people who are doing an enormous amount of work out in our society to make everyday life go around, for our society to work and for transport to work. The part of Transportsverige that is now rolling has its permission. There's nothing weird about it. The problem is those who have to drop off their only vehicle while waiting for the pandemic to pass. Then the authority is lightning fast there and wants to take action. It is stated in Article 13 of Regulation 1071, and it is quite important that if the competent authority finds that an undertaking is in danger of no longer meeting the requirements of Article 3, it shall inform the undertaking accordingly. Where the competent authority finds that one or more of these requirements are no longer met, it may grant the undertaking one of the following time limits. This is where the six-month limit comes in. It refers, therefore, to Article 3, which states that undertakings are to be actually and firmly established in a Member State, a condition which is fulfilled, and are of good repute, a condition which is also fulfilled. Furthermore, they shall have sufficient financial resources and have the necessary professional skills, including those conditions. Yet we go in and take action because we have a pandemic, both in Sweden and in the rest of the world, which means that the operation does not work as it normally does. This, of course, led an entrepreneur to attribute to the European Union, as it is constantly referred to the European Union. He got an answer from there. It is quite interesting to read that answer. The six-month limit is what's constantly circulating. It says this: first of all, as a preliminary statement, we would like to point out that this response expresses the view of the European Commission. Only the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to determine the interpretation of Union law. Here we are backing a little from the harsh interpretation of this by six months. It claims that it is the Court of Justice that makes the interpretation, not the European Commission. It also says this: we believe that the pandemic, which has caused a decline or, in some cases, even a temporary interruption in the activities of road transport companies, should be duly taken into account by the national authorities when assessing whether a company meets the requirements required to maintain its authorisation. There is an opportunity for national authorities to refrain from placing a letter on the box threatening to withdraw the permit. It is free for the Swedish authority to do this. It is claimed by the Swedish Transport Agency that the EU is making this demand. However, according to Unit Manager Eddy Liegeois – I apologise if I did not pronounce the name correctly – the answer, which I read from, is, after all, an opportunity for Swedish authorities to be a little softer in their opinion.
i-676f68619a776f8c-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your commitment! It's important. I wanted to make a point last time that we have to understand that we are living in a pandemic in a situation where everyone is really trying to do their utmost to find solutions and not least make it easier for the whole of society and in this context also for the transport operations in Sweden. In this way, we have succeeded well during this period. We have been able to ensure that haulage operations have functioned. The YKB issue has been resolved and many exemptions have been granted. We have found good solutions for aviation and other parts of the transport system. In this way, we will have to continue working in the future to make it easier for entrepreneurs who are worried about their businesses in the future and whether they can continue. It is in order to ensure that those working in the transport sector have effective protection. The unemployment fund is incredibly important. There we have now been able to strengthen it so that those who lose their jobs – for that will be some during this period – will be given protection and an opportunity for retraining and conversion. It is a very strong investment in educational opportunities we make. In this way, the government acts to create opportunities for society to cope with a pandemic. So do our authorities. They'll have to reprioritize and put things aside. They have to try to deal with important matters as quickly as they can. But they also give priority to facilitating, not least, the transport sector. That's what the Transport Agency does. It has also, on its own initiative, made a number of efforts in which they have sometimes been allowed to come to the government and propose measures that can be taken to facilitate the transport sector's response to the challenges posed by the pandemic. Therefore, I thought it was appropriate to mark when I thought that Thomas Morell and sometimes some other representatives of the Swedish Democrats attack the authorities as not understanding or meeting all the challenges. The authorities we have are doing their very best. They are also affected by a pandemic and have employees working remotely. We must have this understanding and respect in the government and in the parliament with the challenges we have in society to cope with the pandemic. Once that is said, it should of course be a quick, effective and legally secure procedure. Of course, there should be opportunities to find ways to listen to the views that exist to ensure that people do not needlessly get rid of traffic permits. In this context, it is also up to the individual to keep track of the rules that exist. If you have a challenge in that you need or intend to set off your vehicles, you can also contact the Swedish Transport Agency. The Swedish Transport Agency has also published it in information at its industry briefings. The moral of what I'm saying now is that we actually have to help each other. In this way, we have a good chance of coping with the pandemic in the best possible way.
i-676f68619a776f8c-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! The point is that you should make it as simple as possible in the exercise of authority without compromising safety in any way. We have a situation with the pandemic that affects both companies and the authority. Then it feels a little strange if you constantly double work. The Commission representative has responded and said that it can be handled differently. Let me give you an example. There are companies that have put on their vehicle, been out driving for a while, and then set it off again just to satisfy the handling. It feels a little unnecessary that you have to go so far that you turn on a vehicle, drive a turn, and then turn it off again just to keep your traffic license. There is every reason in the continued dialogue between the Government and the Authority to see what can be done to do it better to speed up those who want to seek new traffic permits but also to avoid such unnecessary handling. It will also be unnecessary for the Swedish Transport Agency to send a lot of letters and have dialogue on an issue that does not really run counter to Article 3, which is the basis of the whole. There is an improvement potential. The Minister should take this dialogue with the Authority in the future so that it is as quick and effective as possible for the benefit of all. This applies to the authority itself, but not least to those people who have to do their work in the transport sector. I am convinced that the Minister will discuss this in the future. If nothing else, I may have to return with some interpellation.
i-676f68619a776f8c-412	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell is, of course, welcome with both interpellations and good advice. At the same time, it is important that Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats carry with them that great efforts are now being made in Swedish government to facilitate the transport industry, not least by the Swedish Transport Agency. That is why I think it is important that it is taken into account when speaking confidently about how the authorities should or should not do. The world is usually a little more complicated. But of course, both the Swedish Transport Agency and everyone involved will ensure that we find good solutions during the pandemic and do our utmost to ensure that we get through this crisis. It's a responsibility we all have. It is important to listen carefully, to think strategically about what challenges there are, and step by step to resolve the everyday problems that it entails for people, businesses and many others when we have such a large spread of infection as we have. On the transport side, however, we have solved a great many of these challenges in a very good way. We have a well-functioning freight transport system. We have actors who meet these challenges in a good way with the support and efforts we have made from the Government with the support of the Riksdag. Of course, this applies not least to regulatory changes that have facilitated entrepreneurship. That is how we manage this crisis together with joint efforts.
i-676f68619a776f8c-416	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to tighten up client responsibility. For the government, it is important that the companies ordering transport take their responsibility, and therefore the person ordering an unauthorised goods or passenger transport should be able to be convicted of a crime. Therefore, the Government decided to strengthen the ordering responsibility for international transport and cabotage in the spring of 2018. The client concluding a contract with the railway undertaking shall verify that the transport is carried out on the basis of the correct authorisation. Furthermore, the circle which can be held liable if a shipment has taken place without the right authorisation was extended to all those who have ordered the shipment in question. It is gratifying that the legislation on client liability is now starting to have effect. Recently, the District Court of Helsingborg has decided in two separate judgments to impose fines on companies for not doing what could reasonably be required to prevent infringements of the cabotage rules. In order to increase control and create a level playing field for the transport industry, the government has worked hard to get through the so-called mobility package in the EU. The new rules mean that we are phasing out the benefits of the use of light vehicles at present. The implementation of the Mobility Package will also lead to the application of the rules on driving and rest periods for international transport of goods and cabotage from 1 July 2026 to vehicles of more than 2.5 tonnes. This means that owners of vehicles weighing between 2.5 and 3.5 tonnes will also need to install tachographs. For me, it is crucial to create order in the transport sector, and I am prepared to take further action in this area if necessary.
i-676f68619a776f8c-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! There are a few things in the answer that I want to develop a little bit. The second paragraph states that it is important for the government that the companies ordering transport take responsibility, and therefore the person ordering an unauthorised goods or passenger transport should be able to be convicted of a crime. The customer responsibility is thus regulated in the legislation. Unfortunately, the legislation is not working. It's too weak. The prosecutors say they can't lead in evidence that this is the way it is. It is further stated in the answer, and the Government also raised it now, that there are two judgments down in Helsingborg where the District Court has issued corporate fines. I have checked that task today, and both judges are under appeal. So they have not gained legal force. Whatever the outcome of these two judgments, the result of the legislation is extremely meagre. Police reported 238 cases of unauthorized cabotage in 2019 – 238 cases! If we now play with the idea that the two cases in Helsingborg District Court would lead to conviction in higher courts, the outcome of the strengthened legislation is 0.8 percent of reported cases. I think it's very bad. The Minister also refers to the mobility package in the EU. It is well and good that it has come into place. There are many of us who have struggled to get it done. However, it will not solve the problems on Swedish roads. In order for the mobility package to have any effect, we need to have a control activity that works out, which is of the magnitude that the detection risk is so high that it does not pay to carry out unauthorised activities. But above all, the prosecution must also be equipped to face up to this, and it is obviously not in view of how bad the outcome is. So the mobility package is good. We'll be happy with that. But it also requires Sweden to start a control operation worthy of the name, to review the legislation where it is far too thin, which it is precisely in relation to the customer responsibility, and to ensure that we get substantial sanctions. A market has been created that flies completely below the radar simply because the risk of detection is so low. And should it happen that the police are in place and stop a transport, it does not lead to anything in the end. We see that time and time again. I received an e-mail today from an old police colleague about another case closed. It shows that the legislation is not sharp enough to reach those who put in a system to round the laws. It knocks away the bones of serious business. We have a situation on the roads where people are driving transports that are not allowed to do so, where drivers are driving almost 24 hours a day in vehicles with manipulated tachographs or trying to crawl away from the legislation with these small 3.5-tonnes. It's a big worry. I would like to hear the thoughts and ideas of the Government for the future on how to solve this.
i-676f68619a776f8c-430	Madam President, I would like This is a debate that Thomas Morell and I have had several times. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that before 2014, when we had a government led by the Moderates, the party that the Swedish Democrats and Thomas Morell think should lead this country, there was no squabbling. At the time, there were no fines. At the time, there was no stricter customer responsibility. At that time, there were no earmarked resources to the police for cabotage controls. At that time, there was no study on more effective checks on professional traffic, which is now in a position to present a proposal for a professional road inspection and a wide-ranging exchange of penalties. Then there was also no willingness from the Swedish Government to find a mobility package, which we managed to negotiate within the EU and which, when implemented, provides completely different conditions for fair conditions and order in the transport sector, not least on the Swedish labour market, so that those working in the transport sector can have fair and good conditions. It is posting from day one for cabotage and for the land part of the combined transport directive. There are completely different regulations when it comes to returning with the vehicle and as persons. These are stricter requirements for smart tachographs in particular. These are things that have been pushed through by a Social Democratic-led government – many efforts, not least in the meantime since I took office as Minister of Infrastructure, to create order and order in professional traffic. Much more needs to be done, of course. There's no doubt about it. I look forward to now implementing the mobility package and tightening up the controls further. Nor do I have any concern that, should it turn out to be necessary, I should also go further and tighten up the customer responsibility. However, I note that it has still not been in force for that long. We are now beginning to see the first sentences, which may become a precedent and thus influence behaviour in the transport sector. My question to Thomas Morell is rather: with the line of argument that the Swedish Democrats have, do you think that more things will happen in the transport sector with a moderate-led government? Do you see before you that cooperation with parties that do not want to act in order to regulate the transport sector to the extent that is taking place would be more successful? My starting point is that we work in Sweden to create the right conditions on the Swedish labour market. I have extensive cooperation with both the Transport Workers' Association and the haulage companies. By ensuring that the parties are involved, by moving forward the Swedish positions and through diligent work also in the European Parliament, we have now reversed developments. We are beginning to see increased order and order in the transport sector. We have also started to acquire tools that are actually effective. Last day at a digital visit to the police in Jönköping, I witnessed how a sanction fee of SEK 40 000 has effects directly, unlike in the past when a fine had to be sent to a foreign company and it could take months before any payment came back. Now we've created the tools. We're increasing the application of law. We will increase controls even more. So we're well on our way. My ambition and that of the government is to create order so that it will be attractive for people to work in the transport sector. One should feel that the future dream is not to live in a cabin in a parking lot and cook food outside without safe working conditions and decent wages. Those operating in the haulage sector should be able to do so with confidence and with margins that allow room to invest in new vehicles that meet new challenges, not least in the area of sustainability. This is my vision. What is the vision of the Swedish Democrats?
i-676f68619a776f8c-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Tomas Eneroth. I don't think I need to explain what my vision is about in terms of the conditions of the haulage industry. That message should have gone forward a long time ago, and I will pursue it as long as I have a seat in the Swedish Parliament. We're going to have order on the road. There's no alternative in my world. What made me write this interpellation was again a case of a vehicle that had 697 percent overload — 697 percent! On 14th chapter. The first paragraph of Section 15 of the Traffic Regulation states that a police officer shall prevent further travel if the maximum load is exceeded by more than 20 per cent. I think we can all agree that this is a good bit over it. This is the reality out on the road, all day long. How, then, is it that we see these enraged overloads? It's just because there's no sanction on the business. Anyone who orders this lives with complete confidence that no one will interfere with it. That's why it's so serious, I would say. This vehicle, which had 697 percent overload, was down-registered from 7.2 tonnes to 3.5. That's why you had that effect. As a result, there were no requirements for a licence for international traffic or for tachographs. This is how it happens when the big companies use this – all the time. You can go to any big company in Sweden – it's like going to a hive and looking at the fluster, where the bees go in and out. About that looks with the 3.5-tonnes that come with goods. I think it is a sad development that companies that claim to protect both people and the environment use this type of transport. The drivers are literally driving around the clock. They're falling out of the cab of fatigue. My old colleagues in the police are deeply concerned about that business. I received an email today from an old colleague who was frustrated and abandoned that there is so little going on to get to grips with this. The only thing that can happen when a police officer stops a combination is that you interfere with the particular shipment, but it has no effect further away. It does not take those who order these transports and who put in the system to constantly round the legislation and exploit people in the worst way, because that is what we are talking about. Of the 100 million that the police received to remedy cabotage or to carry out more checks, the police can only account for 2.6 million. The rest disappeared into the system, and it has made me write another interpellation that we will discuss in the future. So it is only 2.6 million that has been reported, and that is how it is all the time: we are not moving forward in terms of getting to grips with the criminal activity that is taking place along the way. I hope now that the Government will do something to really push that work.
i-676f68619a776f8c-448	Madam President, I would like I have to say, I'm surprised. No, it's not 2.6 million that's been accounted for. The police have reported much more than that, not least efforts to train nearly 400 police officers in cabotage controls and also a host of other operations. Thomas Morell's tasks are somewhat remarkable in this context. And if it is too little now, what about the government option that Thomas Morell supports? I do not know how to count it as a percentage, because nothing was done before. It is during the years 2014– 2018 and this government period that efforts have been made to limit unauthorised cabotage traffic, create order and create the right conditions for Swedish hauliers. It is now that we have complaints, fines and ordering responsibility – things that might otherwise not even have been on the agenda to debate in an interpellation debate with perhaps a moderate Minister for Transport. I appreciate the commitment to drivers dying of fatigue. An important part of ensuring that drivers have a good working environment is, among other things, that there is a functioning safety activity, that you have safety representatives who can act. Here in the Riksdag, the Swedish Democrats have acted to stop and dismantle the regional safety ombudsmen and do reductions at the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the preventive work. How to vote and act in the Riksdag and what you say must be connected. I guess that's a lesson. I have no doubt about Thomas Morell's commitment. I think it's important and it's real. But the Swedish democrats as a party still have a lot to account for when it comes to fully supporting order in the Swedish transport sector and opportunities for the trade union movement, not least when it may be a matter of posting from day one in cabotage transport and in the combined directive. We are now creating opportunities thanks to the mobility package that we have negotiated down in Brussels with the aid of not least Johan Danielsson and Swedish parliamentarians and also, of course, through the negotiating efforts that we have made on the part of the government. Now we will implement the mobility package and get completely different conditions. This, together with more effective checks on professional traffic, gives me hope for the future. Of course there are challenges. There's no doubt about it. And should it turn out that we need to tighten up the customer responsibility, I have no worries about doing so. But we will also wait for the legal application of the client responsibility and see if a practice develops. At the same time, we are going to evaluate the legislation, and if it proves necessary, I have no worries about coming back too.
i-676f68619a776f8c-454	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What has happened historically, I cannot take responsibility for. Perhaps I do not think that history is the basis for looking ahead to find a solution to problems on our roads. The drivers concerned are not covered by safety representatives, union agreements or collective agreements, but are forced from outside and are required to do a job. Through prepaid phones, they get their assignments in a spot market. We are dealing with people in this country now, and it is an extremely serious situation. Let me just show you what the North Police Region found in a single week when a special effort was made. In 42 of the vehicles checked, deficiencies were noted, and two vehicles were banned from driving. Two drivers were caught driving on someone else's driver's card, and a total of 11 drivers were reported for violations of driving and rest times. The maximum daily driving time was 21 hours and 23 minutes! 7 drivers of vehicles over 12.5 tonnes and 16 lighter vehicle drivers were reported for overload. The maximum authorised load was exceeded by 723 per cent. 14 vehicles were prevented from continuing their journey. 19 ADR vehicles were checked, of which 6 were reported. 18 drivers were reported for speed violations. A driver was reported for illegal driving. Eleven drivers had their driving licences taken care of. This is rolling on. If it does not have consequences for the user of illegal transport, it will roll on. We need to get checks out on the way. I hope that the message is clear: we must have a much more effective control along the way and a sharper customer responsibility.
i-676f68619a776f8c-457	Madam President, I would like Given that it is this government and I, as a minister, who have presented and enforced that we now have a sharper client responsibility and an investigation into more effective checks on the road, and I can say that if we can continue in this direction, Thomas Morell will certainly also be pleased. Surely the starting point is that we must have political support to create order for the Swedish transport market and ensure that the police receive increased resources. During this period the police have also numerically expanded. More than 10 000 new police officers are the objective now in place. In order to strengthen this further, we have set up a study on more effective checks on professional traffic, in which, in addition to the exchange of sanctions, which may be an important tool that can be used to a wider extent, we have also commissioned the investigator to look at a specific organisational form. A traffic inspection is called a daily speech. There, the police's traffic activities, together with the activities of the Swedish Transport Agency, could form the basis for a new integrated organisation. We have experience of such things from, not least, Germany, where it means more effective checks on the road. It is the government's starting point that we need to increase control activities. It will be beneficial in the transport sector, and it will benefit those who are serious hauliers in particular. There is a fantastic initiative that has been taken by the haulage companies with Fair Transport 2.0. This is where the industry comes forward and proposes that transport buyers use Fair Transport registered companies, so that they know that it is good transport. Let us be more people who promote Fair Transport and ensure that transport buyers use more certified, controlled and sustainable haulage.
i-676f68619a776f8c-462	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Home Affairs whether he intends to take measures to protect the staff who have the road as their place of work. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I take very seriously information that someone has been injured or killed on our roads. It is particularly regrettable if this affects any of those who have the road as their place of work. The government is working purposefully and systematically to improve road safety as well as the working environment on the country's roads. We have set an ambitious interim target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2030, which of course includes those who are killed in traffic while they are doing their work. In the national infrastructure plan, there is, among other things, an investment in citizen and user information to improve road safety, in addition to the planned investments in infrastructure, which will contribute to increased road safety. For example, the effects are expected to be increased speed compliance. But other measures have also been taken to improve road safety. For example, a ban has been introduced on the use of mobile telephones or other communication equipment while travelling by motorised vehicle. Another measure is that a requirement has been introduced for heavy duty vehicles to have winter tyres on all axles in winter conditions. In order to protect this group in particular, the Government last year commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate the safety of personnel performing work within or in connection with the road area. The Swedish Transport Agency reported its mission in August this year. They propose amendments to the Traffic Regulation to strengthen the safety of staff who have the road as their place of work. At the moment, the Swedish Transport Agency's proposals and conclusions are being analysed within the Government Office. The Government also intends to develop a new strategy for health and safety at work, in which work to reduce injuries and death at work is an obvious part. Work on the development of the new strategy on health and safety at work takes place in dialogue with the social partners. With this, I can assure Thomas Morell that the government will come back with initiatives to strengthen the safety of those working on and on the roads.
i-676f68619a776f8c-469	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! Working along the way is an important task. Whether you are on a road construction project, a vehicle that is damaged by traffic or something else is carried out as an important task. It is important that other road users show consideration for those on the road, slow down and drive by carefully. That is not the case today. When you talk to those who work on the road, you hear that they are experiencing a great deal of anxiety. It's going way too fast, and road users are driving way too close. They literally feel that road users drive off their clothes on their bodies. On 9 November, a police officer was injured in connection with an accident along the E4 in Småland. He was in a place where a truck had crashed. It's unclear how he got hurt, but at least he got life-threatening injuries. You do not show respect for those who work on the road and who have the road as a workplace, but you just have the focus on getting there. My first winter with the traffic police was about to be the last winter I experienced. We were at a traffic accident place north of Mariestad, on the E20. There came a truck, a trailer puller, at far too high a speed that tried to brake in at the crash site where we were. There were two passenger cars on each side of the road. What I heard at first was something that happened. When I looked up, I saw a trailer coming. Fortunately, the driver managed to get the trailer back up on the road, but it was only meters to the good. If he hadn't succeeded, I wouldn't be standing where I am today. This situation experiences a lot of people who have the road as a workplace. I received an email yesterday from a person who obviously follows the debate. That person wrote: We were pleased when the Minister for Infrastructure gave the Transport Agency a government commission to investigate the matter, but we were very disappointed by the results that came, which we consider to be nothing at all. So this comes from a person who has the road as a workplace. Then comes an account of what has happened out on the road over the past year. It is a frightening reading when you see how many incidents there are and how many hits of TMA vehicles there are. A TMA vehicle is a vehicle that has a large cushion at the back. These vehicles are on the road to protect those who work in front of these vehicles. There are an enormous number of TMA vehicle collisions. It also has other consequences. The person driving can of course be injured when driving. Nor is it known which way a vehicle goes after a collision – whether it flies to the right or the left, or wherever it goes. So it is an extremely worrying situation for those who are out there. It would be interesting to hear a little bit how the Government is reasoning about this. In my world, there is a need to review both the legislation and the penalties for those who do not follow the instructions available at a workplace. If those who are out there taking care of injured people in a road accident are to feel secure and be able to do their job well, they must have the support of the policy, which ensures that the conditions are created to prosecute those who are clearly indifferent to other people's safety.
i-676f68619a776f8c-480	Madam President, I would like This is an issue in which Thomas Morell and I are in complete agreement – I dare say that. I'm upset about the behavior you sometimes see in traffic. There is a lack of ability to respect other people who are actually working to secure our ways. It may be road workers who make sure to improve standards and establish central railings or who otherwise improve safety on our roads for our common tax resources. It may be towers or others who work on the roads to save lives — police officers or other bluelight personnel. And then it blows past road users who don't respect this. I have also received such testimony when I have met traffic police. This is why proposals are being made within the Government Office to increase the maximum penalty for drunk driving, for heavy drink driving and for serious illegal driving. Only that is a very clear signal of how society should react in such contexts. In the assignment we gave to the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Transport Agency proposes several measures to protect those who work both on and on the road. Among other things, a clarification is proposed in the Traffic Regulation as regards the obligation for road users to show consideration when crossing a place of salvage or similar work, and that is exactly what we need to work with. It is important that TMA vehicles are in place, and it is important that we find several ways to protect them. But it is also about the respect of the surrounding society for the efforts that are being made. The rescue services today – it may be good to hear from those following the debate – have virtually unlimited opportunities to ensure that a rescue operation is protected from other road users. There you can seal off. You can evacuate the place. You have a pretty good opportunity to act. These are not really the same good opportunities when it comes to road works, where there is an interest in traffic still being able to flow and not having too large barriers. Then it is important to have TMA vehicles, other protection and speed monitoring. For this reason, it is also a question of tightening up, for example, the Traffic Regulation as regards the obligation for road users to show consideration, as the Swedish Transport Agency is now proposing. And it is not least a question of increasing the penalties – that is precisely what is currently being prepared within the Government Office for serious illegal driving, drunk driving or, for that matter, heavy driving. The signal must be clear. I would appreciate it if more people would take part in the discussion on speed compliance. I get very often during my travels signals that there is resistance to reduced speeds. I can sometimes see that some who have become accustomed to driving on roads at 90 kilometres an hour do not like to see their speed lowered. But you should be aware that on shorter commuting distances means a drop from 90 to 80 kilometres per hour 50 seconds of time loss. So on a three-mile stretch we are talking about two and a half minutes. But the probability of surviving in an accident is much greater if you reduce the speed from 90 to 80. In addition, the braking distance is reduced – if, for example, one needs to brake for a tow truck, a police operation, a rescue operation or a roadwork. We have to help create more respect and order in traffic. It is, of course, a question of tightening up the rules and increasing the possibilities of criminal proceedings in the event of traffic offences. But it is also about having the courage to argue against those who drive too fast or who do not respect road workers or bluelight personnel who actually work to save lives.
i-676f68619a776f8c-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! I have read Seko's report that came in 2019. I won't read everything that stands there, but I'll take some selected pieces where their members have had to explain what they experience along the way. One of them writes like this, "Making road damage on a European road when a motor home passed at such speed and so close to us that the rearview mirror knocked off my colleague's hat." This despite proper signage and TMA. And another writes, driven by a rear-view mirror against my arm, broke my arm. 中 Others write about explicit threats from motorists who do not accept that they are reprimanded when they drive too fast. An attitude has been created out on the road, calling into question the safety of those who have the road as a workplace. I saw some of these tendencies when I was out on the road myself. I left the police on 1 December 2007, and some things have happened since then, but even then we had discussions with road users who thought they could do in principle as they wanted, even though we were at accident sites. I think it's troubling. In the report's conclusions, Seko writes:中 The results of Seko's membership survey are clear – working along the road is a danger to life. 92% of respondents believe that road users do not take sufficient account of road users, 91% are concerned about their safety and more than half have experienced at least one incident in their workplace over the past year. ..................................................... Then comes the cloun in the first place: a policy in turn is responsible for enacting the laws that apply to traffic and thus also what penalties should exist for those who violate the laws. ..................................................... Those who work on the road should feel safe. They shouldn't have to worry about going home in a wooden box. People have to show them consideration out there. If information does not go up to road users, there is a very good means of getting them to understand that they are doing wrong. When I was in the police department, we used to say that penance is a source of improvement. It must be associated with heavy fines not to comply with the rules and not to show those who work on the road the respect they actually deserve. There were a lot of towers who told me it would be good to have blue lights on the cars, because then people would have more respect. I told them it doesn't matter what color it is on the lights, because they don't care anyway. More than once, we had to shut down traffic completely because they did not respect this. Instead of taking a little piano and driving by, we had to turn it off completely. There is an improvement potential here, and politics has a responsibility to help those who work on the road. I think we should take that responsibility.
i-676f68619a776f8c-495	Madam President, I would like We take that responsibility. It is precisely in order to increase road safety that we are now ensuring that we have more resources for road work and for efforts on our roads. In national planes there is the biggest road safety effort ever to make sure to have central railings and ATK, i.e. automatic traffic surveillance with speed cameras, as well as other types of protection efforts to save lives. In the years 2015 – 2019, three people died in connection with their work on and off the road. All the victims were men between 40 and 55 years of age, two worked in the emergency services and the third was a flag guard in this context. That is three lives too much, and that is why it is so important both, as we are doing now, to review the criminal law framework in the event of traffic offences in order to be able to increase the penalties and to propose measures to further protect those working on our roads. We do so, for example, by clarifying the Traffic Regulation as regards the obligation for road users to show consideration when crossing a place of salvage or similar. As opinion-makers, of course, we should also act and argue and talk about the importance of actually keeping speeds and not mobile surfing in the meantime so that you lose attention. Through the legislation we have now made, this is punishable and costs fines. In this way, we are working gradually to increase safety both for those who drive on our roads and for those who work on our roads. It's a successful job, I'll tell you. This is one of the reasons why they chose to set up the major international road safety conference in February this year in Sweden. There, the world's countries could unite behind Stockholm Declaration, a programme to reduce mortality in traffic and develop, where many countries now see Sweden as an example. We have learned during the zero vision process to both have clear rules and penalties and to design infrastructure in such a way that it does not lead to a fatal outcome. It is also the lesson we have learned: People are doing wrong. When you do wrong, it should have consequences, but when you do wrong in traffic it should be done in a way that does not cost human lives. That is the starting point for the whole road safety work that is currently under way, and that is where we are successful. However, I share Thomas Morell's view that we still have a lot to do, not least in recent years as regards respect for those who work on the road. There we have a joint public opinion effort to make.
i-676f68619a776f8c-501	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There's a lot we can do together. Each of us can do so when we are on the road by setting an example in everything we do. But there is nothing so good that it cannot be improved, and even though three dead over such a long period of time is a decently low figure, it is still too high. We also have the concern that you can get injuries that you suffer from for the rest of your life. A broken arm may sound mild, but it may render the arm unusable, and a heavy blow may cause a loss of strength in the arm. I myself have been sitting on the side of the road trying to comfort people who have been involved in road accidents. I've been to accidents with deaths. I know what that means for people who are affected by serious road accidents, and I have had a long commitment to trying to increase the safety of all forms of road users but also for those who work on the road and have the road as a workplace. I have had the road as a workplace for 12 years, so I know what it means for the people who work out there. Those of you who may not have been out in that environment can look at the heroes of the Road or frozen roads so you will see how everyday life is for those who perform salvage and rescue tasks along the way. It is more than once that they have to jump aside because other road users do not show consideration for the work and efforts that are going on to save lives and health. One day you can actually lie there yourself. Turn the mirror, I say, and look at yourself! Either day you can lie there and need help. It doesn't hurt to have it in your mind from time to time.
i-676f68619a776f8c-505	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for a question where we do not disagree! On the contrary, it is important that more people take their responsibility and argue that we should show respect and consideration in traffic. When it comes to road work, it is important to remember that there is SEK 164 billion in national plan to improve our roads, both the road team and of course road safety. In recent years, we have also provided additional resources in the budget proposal to improve road quality. This is an important part of ensuring the safety of all road users. Then we should also remember that those who make these improvements and carry out efforts that we know save lives by making roads safer are our road workers. I have also read Seko's report, and Seko is doing a fantastic job, not least through its trade union protection activities and the important work of safety representatives in identifying the risks that exist and the ways that we can proceed in order to increase safety in road work. It has been important inspiration since we have now given the assignment to the Transporstyrelsen, which has returned with a number of proposals. It is also important when we look at the use of TMA vehicles and how we can ensure that we increase the possibility of using them in several different operations. That is an important starting point. We will continue to renovate and improve the standard on Swedish roads. I'm sure Thomas Morell as well as me and others who drive can be happy about that. But then we should always remember that there are some who have done the road work, that there are some who make sure that the road gets better. Let us protect them. Take it easy in traffic. Also, make sure that those who violate these rules are aware of the penalties involved.
i-676f68619a776f8c-510	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me questions about the freight transport strategy and the objectives that the strategy addresses. The Government decided in June 2018 on a national freight transport strategy. It is the first of its kind ever and has been developed in close dialogue with industry representatives, researchers and authorities. Subsequently, a National Freight Transport Council was set up with stakeholders, and the Government instructed the Finnish Transport Agency to set up a secretariat to support the Freight Transport Council. Several active initiatives have now begun to strengthen and develop Swedish good capacity. Many elements of the freight transport strategy are now being delivered. Let me give you a few examples. On behalf of the Government, the Finnish Transport Agency has examined the obstacles to increased intermodal rail transport and has proposed what can be done. The measures concern, inter alia, the regulatory framework for train path allocation and innovation procurement in the context of terminal management, transfer technology and efficient train systems. The Government proposes in the budget proposal for 2021 a continuation of environmental compensation for more intermodal rail transport. For its internal work, the Finnish Transport Agency has developed a roadmap that identifies, prioritises and timetables measures to increase the transfer of freight transport to shipping and rail. D a national coordinator for domestic and short sea shipping has developed an action plan for domestic and short sea shipping with 62 points now being implemented. Implementation is fully under way. The Finnish Transport Agency has recently reported on the progress of work within the framework of existing economic and physical infrastructure planning regarding longer and heavier trains. The proposal for and where longer lorries should be allowed on the Swedish road network has been referred and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. After examining how the introduction of low-emission heavy goods vehicles can be promoted, the climate premium for environmental trucks can now be paid out. On behalf of the Government, Boverket has analysed and mapped the handling of freight related transport in spatial planning. Within the framework of this work, Boverket has also developed a national guide for the development of planning and coordination of freight transport. The Finnish Transport Agency is working to find ways in which information exchange for horizontal coordination and increased transport efficiency can be designed. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to work for increased and broader support for research and innovation in the maritime sector. The Government has, among other things, taken several measures, based on the work of the National Freight Transport Council, to create the conditions for more intermodal transport. The results of the overall work have created opportunities for the transport industry and industry to develop sustainable freight transport. The government and Jag as responsible minister will do what we can to continue to facilitate and support this work. Step by step, we have analysed the measures contained in the strategy. Now we're implementing them too.
i-676f68619a776f8c-517	Madam President, I would like I wrote the interpellation to the Minister for Infrastructure because we know that the transport sector accounts for a large part of our greenhouse gas emissions – about one third of our emissions in Sweden. The transport sector will reduce its emissions by 70% by 2030, and less than ten years remain. We know that, at present, the transport sector is not at all in line with the objectives. Much of the transport sector's emissions come precisely from freight transport mainly on our roads. The good strategy initiated by the Minister two years ago is benevolent. The Minister also has a freight transport council, which he himself runs, which is connected to the good strategy. Among other things, the objective of the Good Strategy is to promote the shift of freight transport from road to climate-smarter rail and maritime transport. Now we have had two years with the Good Strategy and the Freight Transport Council. Then it may be relevant to look at how the transfer has gone. Have we achieved more sustainable freight transport? Have we had more transport by rail and by sea? Unfortunately, Madam President, that is not the case. On the contrary. Now I'm not talking about the Corona Year. I'm talking about 2019. If we look at transport by rail, we see that they decreased by 3 percent in 2019. If we look at shipping, we can see that their share of freight transport compared to road transport has also decreased. It's problematic. The proposals raised by the Minister, which are to be delivered, are good things. It's perfectly clear. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister has an idea of how much the proposals will contribute to the transfer of goods transport from road to rail and shipping. Of the proposals raised by the Minister, there is no such thing as what, according to the evaluators, is the sharpest proposal to have a shift from road to, for example, rail and shipping, namely that there is a kilometre or road wear charge on heavy goods vehicles on our roads so that it costs a little more to transport by road. Then we will also get money that we can invest in the railways and expand shipping. Look at countries like Switzerland, which introduced a fee. All the money goes to the National Railway Fund. It's been a success. They have reduced the number of transit transports by lorries, and they have moved goods transport by rail. Is the Minister prepared to introduce such a road toll or kilometre tax in Sweden? It's been a long time. Does the Minister think that truck transport on our roads should pay more for its environmental impact? The Minister could also ensure that the railways pay less for their transport. It is a bit backwards that for every kilometer you drive on the climate-smart railway you pay a track fee to the state. These are fees that have been constantly increasing. The truck transports don't. Is the Minister prepared to reduce rail rail charges in Sweden?
i-676f68619a776f8c-525	Madam President, I would like I intend to stick to the interpellation I have received from the chairman of the Transport Committee, Jens Holm. As far as the Freight Transport Council is concerned, we can see the following. The RUT report produced by Jens Holm is on two sides, if I understand it correctly. Parliament's investigation service notes that there are no statistics that can clarify whether there has been a transfer or not. Jens Holm nods in agreement. I note that there is a lack of statistics, and that is regrettable. Of course, I wish we could get even better statistics that account for the flows that exist. However, there is no doubt that initiatives and relocations are taking place. We can see completely different transport routes opened in Sweden. Before the pandemic we were able to see, and now during the pandemic we can see, clear initiatives to create more intermodality, that is to say find transport that takes place between several different modes of transport and where the railways and, not least, maritime transport are strengthening their market share. Even now, in the midst of the pandemic, new routes have been opened for shipping. With the work carried out by Pia Berglund, national coordinator for maritime transport, I am optimistic that we will continue to strengthen maritime transport as an important part of achieving more climate-smart transport. Not to mention how environmental compensation of SEK 400 million will strengthen rail freight annually. We are making substantial financial contributions precisely to strengthen the competitiveness of the railways. Then there are challenges, no doubt about it. Composite brake blocks and regulations in the European market can be an important challenge for the rail industry. But the most important thing I think is to change attitudes and behaviour and to increase knowledge of the new transport routes. It has been an important part of the work of the Freight Transport Council. We have been making sure that for more than two years we have talked more and more goods than ever before to relate to the freight transport strategy. I have visited almost all of Sweden's ports to discuss how ports such as nodes in the transport system can strengthen their role. Now we see that we have a completely different attitude and knowledge about how to reduce the carbon footprint and get more sustainable transport. The latter is absolutely necessary, not least for the climate reasons that Jens Holm himself mentioned at the outset. The transport sector still accounts for far too much of its emissions. If we are to meet the 70% target by 2030, more needs to be done. If we are to achieve the target of net zero by 2045, which is the Government's ambition, it is not enough just to work with instruments. In this context, investments are also needed which fundamentally improve the conditions for more sustainable transport, not least investments that strengthen the capacity of the rail system. I choose to highlight the latter, because we can end up in the situation we were in before the pandemic, when we almost hit the capacity ceiling for the Swedish rail system. The incentives we develop to move goods over are not enough if there is still no room and opportunity. That is why we need to build more railways. A new track could significantly increase the capacity for goods in the Swedish rail system, just like the South East Link or Norrbotnia Line. In these times, when we often debate and discuss a national plan, I would like to take this opportunity to say in the answer to Jens Holm that it is an important part of ensuring that the good strategy can be pursued – instruments and increased knowledge but also increased investments.
i-676f68619a776f8c-534	Madam President, I would like We start with the statistics and the investigation from the parliamentary investigation service that I refer to, which I used when I wrote the interpellation and which Tomas Eneroth has read. Everyone can read it because I have posted it on my website jensholm.se. I asked the parliamentary investigation service to see if they could see any quantifiable results of the government's good strategy regarding the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping. Parliament's investigation service states that they can't provide any information about it, because they don't manage to measure it. There are no measurable results from the government's good strategy. I think that is a bit problematic, as it is a stated objective that we should move freight transport from road to rail and shipping. Or isn't it, Tomas Eneroth? Is it not an objective for us to move freight transport from road to shipping and rail? Please answer that so that we get it straight! When I look at statistics from traffic analysis on rail freight transport, for example, I see that it decreased by 3 per cent in 2019 compared to 2018. It was still a year when the economy grew, so you can think that there is no recession that has affected it. The same is true of shipping – it loses market share vis-à-vis road transport. I think this is problematic, and it leads me to conclude that more stringent instruments are needed. Good strategy – great. Freight Transport Council – great. The industry works hard – great. But perhaps there is a need for sharper instruments. That is why I raised the kilometre tax on lorry transport, which the government has a concrete proposal for in its drawer. There is a memorandum from 2018, but the government does not present it as a concrete proposal. Madam President, I would like I have to repeat my question because I did not get an answer. Does the Minister think that road transport should pay a higher proportion for its environmental impact, yes or no? If the answer is yes, is not a road toll or a kilometre tax a very good instrument? Such a proposal has been in your drawer since 2018. In exactly the same way as it is good to have road transport pay more, it would be good to lower the rail charges so that the railways have to pay less. The Minister takes up the 400 million in environmental compensation to go to the railways. Great, the Left Party fully supports it. But then we should be honest and remember that the railway at the same time pays SEK 2 billion in track charges, that is five times more than compensation, and it is fees that increase every year. Tomas Eneroth! Is it not the time to reduce rail charges or to remove them altogether, at least for this year, so that the railways are better able to operate? Maritime transport has a similar problem with fairway and pilotage charges, which are constantly rising. I received a letter today from Mälarhamn, which says that for the fifth year in a row, increased fairway and pilot fees are announced for them. That's how it is for everyone in the country. It counteracts the transfer of more goods to shipping, which is a much more climate-smart way of transporting goods than on the road. Why are you doing that? We could fund more money to the Swedish Maritime Administration so that they do not have to increase these fees all the time. Wouldn't that be a good idea, Tomas Eneroth?
i-676f68619a776f8c-544	Madam President, I would like I think that the chairman of the Transport Committee, Jens Holm, must find out the difference between notification and implementation. A lot of these increases have not been implemented, not least because of the pandemic. Several support measures that we have made in maritime transport have been very important, just as environmental compensation will be very important to ensure that the competitiveness of the railways is increased in these times. I think it is important to remember that there are several different efforts that we need to make in order to move goods from road to shipping and rail. To do so is indeed the declared ambition of the government; there should be no doubt about that. An important part may be what we have just debated in this House: the mobility package. It is clear that as long as it has been profitable and possible for companies to use cabotage services from foreign hauliers with poorly paid drivers, social dumping and vehicles that do not fully meet the sustainability criteria, as long as we have had that lack of order, it has created a situation where road transport has been cheaper than sustainable transport. We are working intensively on this and have now changed the situation. We have pushed through a mobility package where we make completely different demands and have completely different control possibilities for the transport on the road. Speaking of Jens Holm's question, I usually say that there are no free lunches, and there is no free transport. The last is probably so important in a situation where e-commerce is developing and we see that because of that we get more transport. The e-commerce can have its advantages, but however cracked it may be for some to order 14 pairs of shoes and then send back 10 means completely unnecessary transport with the climate impact it entails. That is why we need to reduce all climate emissions from all types of transport. That is why we work with electrification of the transport sector, reduction obligation and biofuels to ensure that road transport reduces its climate impact. That is why we are working to ensure that even aviation starts with both biofuels and electrification. Not least, we will strengthen shipping and the railways, which are fundamentally climate-smart transport alternatives. We do so with the means at our disposal. We use several different initiatives, and the whole point of the freight transport strategy was to put a different focus in Swedish transport policy. I said at the outset that we are now talking a lot more goods than before. That's because before – that's my picture after many years in politics – we talked a lot about passenger traffic, about the passengers at SJ and the commuter trains. With all due respect: It is incredibly important too, but it is important to have all the transports that take place to keep Sweden rolling, to make sure that the import and export industry works and that the food supply works. Then the good system is crucial. This is why we have chosen to raise these issues both in a national plan with a clear economic policy perspective and a good strategy. Only in these a little more than two years have we got a completely different focus and a catalogue of actions that are currently being implemented. No one will be happier than me when we are now also able to show statistically what the results are. Let us have the common task of trying to ensure that this mapping is carried out as well. Of course, the Finnish Transport Agency has the task of also monitoring the efforts within the framework of the freight transport strategy. D a transfer that is now taking place is important. The signal is clear from the government: We will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will become a country that makes sure to show that it is possible to cope with high welfare ambitions and also change the transport sector and even do so in a way that creates new jobs and new opportunities, so that the world sees, gets hope and is impressed and hopefully buys some of the Swedish products and services to learn with Swedish technology how to create sustainable transport systems.
i-676f68619a776f8c-556	Madam President, I would like Minister Tomas Eneroth gives with one hand but takes with the other. That is something that is not really connected in this. At the same time as the Minister says he wants more goods transport by sea, the fairway and pilotage fees are increased. We could solve this by having funding, that is to say, financing the Swedish Maritime Administration, which collects this money, from the state budget instead, in full or at least in part. Most other authorities are financed in this way. It's great with 400 million SEK in environmental compensation for the railway – you give with one hand but take back 2 billion SEK with the other, five times more. This is not good if you want to move more goods transport from road to rail. I note that several countries in Europe are now reducing their rail charges: France, Austria and Germany, for example. Sweden could go that way, but unfortunately this is not happening. I had a specific question; I have asked it twice. Now, Madam President, let me ask it a third time. Does the Minister think that truck transport should pay more for its environmental impact on road transport than they do today? If so, what concrete instruments are there to resolve this? What I know as the most effective is a kilometre tax or what is also called a road wear charge. The government has a concrete proposal of this kind in the drawer. Isn't there a memo from 2018? Why not use it? Then, of course, the government will also get money for financing the railways and shipping so that transport can be moved from road to rail and shipping. This is also how we can reduce emissions from our freight transport.
i-676f68619a776f8c-561	Madam President, I would like Those resources would undoubtedly be needed if the policies of Jens Holm and the Left Party were to be implemented in this area. Just during Jens Holm's last speech I think I could count to 3 or 4 billion SEK which suddenly disappeared from the Swedish state budget. You have to have an economic policy that sticks together. We must ensure that resources are used efficiently and effectively. This is what we are trying to do: ensure that, within the framework of the resources available, we have the right instruments to change the Swedish transport sector and increase the conditions for more goods by rail and in shipping. Making funding does not mean that it is free of charge. If you go from fairway fees to grant funding, it is another type of financing model, yes. But the need for resources does not go away for that. Then money must be allocated to the state budget. I think it is important for those who follow this to realise that it is not free. However, billions will be needed to ensure that the Swedish Maritime Administration has the resources to maintain fairways, be able to do dredging and pilot work and ensure that we have working conditions for Swedish shipping. I believe that this is an important starting point without taking a position on whether we should have funding or fee financing. But it will not be cheaper, but the starting point is that resources will still be needed. Then I think that one of the most important actions ahead is what is going on here and now in this House: that we continue to have a proper and good discussion in Sweden about freight transport and how important this is for the climate change, to find new roads and to ensure that moving to rail and shipping also means reducing the pressure on our roads. If we do not achieve this and do not get new investments in the railways, for example, it will be crowded on road 40 and on E6, E4, E22 or other roads. I don't think any of us want that development.
i-JWEqjtWQ6pLRXWA7FBZ8pi	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked the Minister for the Environment and Climate and the Deputy Prime Minister if she shares Johan Hultberg's view that there is a need for a knowledge boost in aquaculture within the relevant authorities and whether the Minister is prepared to initiate such a knowledge boost. Johan Hultberg has also asked whether the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is prepared to improve the cooperation between the authorities concerned in the field of aquaculture by giving an authority a clear coordination mission, including tasks to act as a way in for various permit applications and requests. Johan Hultberg has also asked whether the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change intends to return to the Riksdag with proposals for a change of Chapter 11. Section 11 of the Environmental Code so that the cultivation of examples of algae and sea prunes is given the same conditions as the cultivation of fish, mussels and crayfish. Finally, Johan Hultberg has asked whether the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is prepared to review the implementation and application of the EU Water Framework Directive in order to create better conditions for Swedish aquaculture. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I welcome the question from Johan Hultberg, which shows that there is a consensus between the Moderates and the Government regarding the importance of creating improved conditions for Swedish aquaculture. It takes a number of measures to promote Swedish aquaculture. For example, the Government has built on the work initiated by the Alliance in 2011 which included the State's Agriculture Agency being given responsibility for the promotion of the aquaculture industry. The aim was also then that the Authority should act as a common authority input to facilitate the individual aquaculture business operator. On the basis of this work and the latest developments in the aquaculture sector, the Authority has received a renewed government mandate and recently submitted a report. I take note of the proposals made by Johan Hultberg, which are also included in the accounts of the National Board of Agriculture. The proposals include, for example, regulatory changes and the introduction of a path for different permit applications and requests. Analysing is ongoing, and I do not want to precede this. In general, however, the Council is actively pursuing the long-term objectives of the food strategy to achieve competitive food chains, where aquaculture is seen as a future industry that can contribute to jobs and growth throughout the country, to achieving sustainability objectives and to improving access to fish and shellfish. It is important that aquaculture regulatory frameworks both create incentives for increased food production and contribute to the achievement of national environmental objectives. The work on regulatory simplification and reducing administrative burden is an important part of the work for competitive and sustainable aquaculture. It is also important that regulations are designed in a simple and easily understandable way. It is also important that they are effective, whether they are developed at national or EU level. All authorities that can influence the administrative costs of companies in their activities therefore need to work on simplifying rules that impose a burden. I would like to remind you that both the National Agricultural Agency and the Maritime and Water Authority have been specifically tasked with increasing the administrative burden on businesses in line with the objectives of the food strategy. This is an ongoing work that I follow very closely. In parallel with this, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish Agency for Agriculture are working to develop a common strategy that also includes aquaculture. The government has made it clear that the work will be based on an ecosystem approach and contribute to strengthening the achievement of the objectives of the arithmetic strategy and the food strategy. The strategy shall contribute to a competitive and sustainable food chain, in particular by taking into account skills provision, diversification and profitability, as well as reducing workplace accidents and fatal accidents. The work also includes taking research and innovation into account. Within the framework of the strategy work, the authorities have established a reference group for aquaculture, which will both increase collaboration and raise the knowledge of the participants. These are examples of actions and work already under way to meet the need to increase knowledge of aquaculture, to improve co-operation between authorities, and to simplify rules and reduce administrative burden.
i-676f68619a776f8c-574	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! I also thank you for the fact that there is a common understanding of the potential for Swedish aquaculture. I am convinced, Madam President, that Swedish aquaculture can deliver a great deal of benefit to Sweden and the world, if I may take big words. There are fantastic opportunities to produce amazing food while creating jobs and addressing some environmental challenges. These possibilities are particularly present in Bohuslän and on the west coast. At home in my constituency there are several innovative and exciting companies looking at how to develop the cultivation of e.g. algae and sea prunes and also develop already existing industries such as mussel farming. We also see several exciting projects and initiatives to establish large-scale land-based fish farms. In recirculating systems fish are cultivated in a much more sustainable way than today's conventional technology used in Norway and elsewhere in the world. There fish are grown in open cages and have significant problems with not least eutrophication and leakage of nutrients. Unfortunately, I see that the conditions for releasing this great potential are not really in place. I find it a bit bleak that the problems raised by the industry are things that have been lifted up for many years. I refer to this in my interpellation. Among other things, the report by Swemarc, which came one or two years ago, mentions that the problems that aquaculture entrepreneurs highlight are those that they highlighted perhaps four, five or six years ago. I simply find it worrying that more has not happened. It is true that steps have been taken for one or another strategy, but not enough has happened in concrete action. In my interpellation, therefore, I raise some major and very horizontal issues and also a concrete, specific question. As far as the more horizontal questions are concerned, I received some answers. I understood, for example, that the Minister agrees with my view that the relevant authorities today do not really have sufficient knowledge of aquaculture activities and that it is perhaps partly a reason why we have problems with tough licensing processes and that aquaculture entrepreneurs do not feel that they are really getting answers to their questions. This is addressed in the reference group raised by the Minister at the end of his reply. I also understood that the Minister, like me, believes it is important that we have appropriate legislation. What I miss a little, Madam President, is that you draw a conclusion from what you see as a problem. In my view, we do not currently have legislation that is appropriate. Today, we do not have effective permit processes or a sufficiently good state of knowledge in the relevant authorities. Then we need to work on these issues. As far as licensing processes and legislation are concerned, I understood that there are some processes that are positive and that have been initiated by the government. But when it came to my specific question of a simple change in Chapter 11. Section 11 of the Environmental Code I did not receive an answer. Let me therefore conclude my first speech by repeating the issue.
i-676f68619a776f8c-582	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg and I have had many different debates about the conditions for professional fishing. It is very positive that we can bring them in the constructive way that we usually do. As I said, there is a great deal of consensus here about the importance of creating good conditions for the development of aquaculture. There is a great deal of interest among many players. This applies to both small-scale and large-scale production facilities. We have examples from Säffle and Sotenäs. In these very places, we are talking about large and significant investments. If they are realised, it also means a large number of jobs. It would provide jobs in municipalities where we really want to see such a development of a industry. At the same time, we are talking about a healthy food being produced that we want to benefit more consumers, and we are happy to see it produced in Sweden. So I do not see any political contradiction here. We want this to increase and improve. We also seem to have a common view that there are obstacles that need to be addressed, given that we are very positive about the development. There are things that can get better. However, I would argue that the government has done a great deal in this area. All the issues raised in the interpellation, including the last specific issue of Chapter 11. Section 11, is included in the final report delivered by the Swedish Board of Agriculture as late as September. We are now looking at how we take it further on the basis of the problem picture provided by the industry. These are, therefore, issues on which the government has already given a mandate. The issues would be identified. We have received the mission from the responsible authority. And we intend to take it further. I think it shows that we are taking this very seriously. We have also delivered very clearly in the other parts. In December 2019, for example, we adopted Action Plan 2 in the Food Strategy. It includes targeted investments of 22 million for regulatory simplification in the food chain and a targeted contribution of 13 million directly linked to aquaculture. In the budget proposal for 2021, we follow this up by an increase of SEK 19 million for the years 2021 – 2023 for the implementation of a so-called simplification package. We are taking further steps to increase the level of ambition even more. This package includes facilitating authorisation processes for aquaculture activities. This has resulted in, among other things, that we have now developed the platform Serverat. It is a clear and concrete example of what can be achieved when resources are made available in this area. Digital information, guidance and services can now be obtained based on the conditions and needs of companies. In addition, Sotenäs Municipality has recently received SEK 8.7 million to support the establishment of aquaculture activities in the municipality. I can come back to a further reinforcement of the EMFF co-financing which is currently under preparation. I therefore say that we are doing a great deal in this area.
i-676f68619a776f8c-592	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your supplementary answer. I cannot deny that much is being done, Madam President, but my criticism is very much about the pace of work. What the Minister is now reporting should have happened years ago. On the specific issue of changes in Chapter 11. Paragraph 11 of the Environmental Code and many other Members have been lifting it repeatedly in this House for many years. I have every respect, Madam President, because some of what I asked for in this interpellation, such as a review and implementation of the EU water directive in Swedish legislation but also a change in the EU water directive, are processes that are difficult and take time. But a small adjustment in a clause of the environmental code should be able to go a little faster. However, it is only now that it has even come up with a basis for the government on how to change this. This is a small change, but it could have made a huge difference. This is pretty significant. This legislation is based on what aquaculture looked like a number of decades ago. For example, crayfish and mussels were cultivated. Today, however, creative and innovative entrepreneurs have developed new opportunities and see potential in algae, sea puddles and other things. However, legislation is not adapted to the new reality. The environmental beam thus provides a fast track and an opportunity to get started quickly with, for example, the cultivation of mussels, which is the water treatment plant of the sea. But there is not the same possibility of growing sea prunes, which, like mussels, are also the water treatment plants of the sea. It was not thought that anyone would come up with the idea of growing sea puddles when making this law because I don't know how many years ago. It is an example of the fact that we do not have legislation that is up-to-date, to put it simply. With regard to the large-scale establishment of land-based fish farming, the Minister, for which I am pleased, mentioned the huge project planned in Sotenäs. I know that the Minister had planned a visit there next week, but unfortunately it cannot happen for Corona reasons, at least not right now. In that project, it is an absolutely crucial point that the permit process is going reasonably fast. In Sotenäs, however, there is a very deterrent example that the authorisation process takes a very long time. This concerns the establishment of another land-based salmon farm, in this case Smögenlax. Here too it is a question of establishing salmon farming in a recircular system. It's 20 times better for the environment than conventional technology. The company has been struggling for four and a half years to obtain environmental permits. It started its consultation process and so on already in 2016. They had consultations with the county administrative board and then with the public. Permits were sent to the Land and Environment Court in 2017. The case is now before the Land and Environment Court. They were actually promised the other week, but now apparently the responsible official is sick, so they are still waiting for a message. Madam President, I would like Four and a half years is an extremely long time for financiers and entrepreneurs to get started. If this is repeated with the large-scale project in Sotenäs, I can promise that this initiative will not happen, Madam President, and Sweden cannot afford it. It is therefore extremely important to speed up the processes and to ensure that our authorities are doing everything they can to ensure that the processes proceed quickly and that permits are put in place, so that we do not miss the potential for environmental benefits, jobs, growth and tax revenues.
i-676f68619a776f8c-601	Madam President, I would like I agree very much with what Johan Hultberg says. It is awfully important that we have appropriate legislation. Reality changes. We must constantly ensure that we adapt and update. But both me and Johan Hultberg have been politicians for a long time and know that sometimes that must take some time. Many times, as politicians, we think that it takes more time than we would like. But these are processes that need to be legally certain. Although a layman may feel that this is a small adjustment, it often requires quite thorough work. As I said, we have given a mission to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to review this, and they have come back with a proposal. We have also recently started work to ensure that we have a modern and effective environmental test. At government level, we are going to look at this from the point of view of facilitating environmental and climate-enhancing investments and achieving faster and simpler trial processes, while maintaining environmental protection and so on. The work is going on all the time. However, the work will never be finished, for reality is constantly changing. It is a question of creating incentives and clarity about the expectations of policy in these areas. There we have a shared responsibility. I share the view that this is an issue that has been highlighted from and to, for example, around 2011 under the alliance government, when changes were made and assignments were given to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I would like to say that this is simple to say, but it takes some time to do. I am very proud and happy that we have quite difficult and heavy processes going on. We are now also beginning to get the results of the orders we have made. This also applies to the collaboration work carried out by the Swedish Board of Agriculture together with the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. They have been tasked with developing a common strategy for ensuring that promotion and management work in such a way as to create synergies for both of these elements. It is a work that is in progress and that will be reported to the government in March, if I remember correctly. However, it is important that we do not turn a blind eye to the challenges that exist. There I share Johan Hultberg's picture. For example, the major investments we now have on the table are both long-awaited and welcome. I imagine that people are going to Sweden because it has been noted that we are clear that these are priority issues. I believe that we have taken note of the commissions that are linked to looking at rules and creating simplifications in this area, but also the funds – rather small by all means – that have been set aside to lubricate the systems. I think it matters in the last row. At the same time, I note that new elements are constantly being discovered. For example, in the case of investment aid linked to this type of sector, it proved problematic that it was about food. On the food side, where we have special money, it turned out problematic that this is about fish. You shouldn't be under the impression that it's complicated. I still want to be very clear about – and I understand that Johan Hultberg still gives us the credit – that the government is working very purposefully and as quickly as we can to try to remove the obstacles that appear along the way.
i-676f68619a776f8c-609	Madam President, I would like Give credds? Yes, I think the government is now doing a lot that is good. But again: I am an impatient soul that thinks the government has taken too long. I have been in Parliament for a long time, Madam President, and I am fully aware that we have a duty of preparation and that it is not only possible to get legislative proposals out of my fist, so to speak. But it is distressing, I still think, that it has delayed, for example, this simple adjustment of the environmental code and that it is only in recent years that the initiative has come to give the assignment to the Swedish Agriculture Agency, so that this basis can be found. But I'm really glad it's about to come. It is well excellent if the Minister can give a promise that the cultivation of sea prunes and algae will be given the same good conditions as, for example, the cultivation of mussels. I think it is a good thing that the investigation into an effective environmental permit process and environmental review has been set up. However, it should be said, Madam President, that it took three announcements from this House that we have problems, for example with far too long permit processes. Madam President, I would like I think it is important for the government to review how we have implemented the EU Water Framework Directive in Swedish legislation, but this has not yet been initiated. It is strange to me how that directive is very often highlighted as a problem for establishing environmentally smart plants in Sweden, while those problems do not seem to exist at all in other countries. Then there is something to suggest that we have an over-implementment in Sweden, Madam President, what is sometimes called gold-plating. We are turning the EU directives a little bit, changing from one-to-one-to-one-to-one and simply tying rice to our own backs. I want to unlock the potential of aquaculture. I think a lot of what the government does is good, but you probably need to speed up a bit. There is also a need to look at, among other things, the EU Water Framework Directive and to pursue the good intentions that the Minister highlighted, for example, in terms of a way in which there should be a way in for different licensing processes.
i-676f68619a776f8c-613	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for the debate. It is a lot to ask him to give credit, but I must surely interpret what is said about much of what the government does being good as a certain form of credit. I think it must also be interpreted that there is a certain amount of self-criticism in this, given how long some of these questions have been on the table. I can tell you that I am dealing with them anyway. There have been other governments who, in that case, also bear responsibility for the timing of the matter. Having said that, I would rather be constructive. I said in my first speech that I would come back a little bit to the EMFF, but we have not talked about that at all – I have not really managed to do so far. In addition to what we have been talking about, of course, this is also about ensuring that all the different systems that we have synchronise with each other and that we do not do it complicated in that you need to look for where to find things or that they become problems with each other. Therefore, I am now initiating an additional work linked to what I experienced as the spirit of the interpellation, namely to ensure that we raise the level of competence of government officials and those working on these issues. It should also be done in relation to potential traders. It should be easy to get information. It should be easy to find in this. We will identify the type of investment measures that we can use in the context of the work in a wise and clear way. It is great that we have a discussion about what challenges we see. One should be constructive in one's criticism. There is also reason for everyone to note that we need to do more in this area. I continue to initiate work in this area. I look forward to more debates and more constructive talks.
