i-9cde5187386ec4d8-3	Madam President, I would like I have a long answer to Mrs Pethrus' long interpellation, and I hope I will be able to get my full answer. Mrs Pethrus has asked me whether I believe that protective materials are an important issue for the health and safety at work and what measures I intend to take within the framework of my government's responsibility in relation to protective materials during the Corona crisis. Désirée Pethrus has also asked whether it might be justified to specifically raise the level of psychosocial support to health care staff, including by giving an assignment to Mynak to follow up psychosocial support. No one should be harmed or ill by their work. It is not possible to stress enough the importance of skilled and committed staff who have a full working life. The workload and sick leave of the elderly's staff has been far too high for a long time. Work environment challenges in elderly care have been put at the forefront of covid-19 pandemics. I take very seriously the shortcomings in the working environment in the care of the elderly. Women and men working in elderly care should have a good working environment. Ultimately, it is about the employer taking full responsibility for the work environment. Since the government took office last term, an increased level of ambition for health and safety at work policy has been an important priority. Resources in this area have been greatly strengthened with resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency for more inspectors and increased presence at the workplace, for work life research and for the establishment of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. Based on the Government's strategy for the health and safety at work 2016 – 2020, the task was left to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to carry out a supervision of the working environment within elderly care. Over the past few years, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has carried out more than 1,000 visits to approximately 200 employers in elderly care. Supervision has been directed at both municipal and private employers. Nearly nine out of ten workplaces inspected have been required to improve their work environment. The inspections carried out by the Swedish Work Environment Authority have revealed that most employers lack cooperation on the work environment and in making risk assessments. These are shortcomings that need to be addressed. Employers have an obligation to ensure that systematic work environment management works and that the staff and safety representative are involved in designing the work environment at the workplace. The final report highlighted a number of development areas for improved work environment management. The supervision continued during 2019 at the Swedish Work Environment Authority's own initiative, which I am in favour of. The Swedish Work Environment Authority also notes that the work environment problems in elderly care need to be made more visible in the organisations, where there is a decision mandate for improvement measures to reduce the risk of unhealthy workload. It is politicians in the council, the board and the board who are the ultimate employer representative and who should make sure that workers are not exposed to risks of ill health and accidents at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority therefore met representatives of municipalities and regions at political level during 2019 to inform about the employer responsibility that politicians have. The information effort shall be followed up with sample inspections to find out how the annual monitoring of systematic work environment management is conducted. Personal protective equipment is an important occupational safety and health issue and it is therefore important for employers to provide the personal protective equipment needed for their work. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Work Environment Authority to ensure, during the ongoing spread in society of the virus that causes covid-19, that there is a procedure for providing non CE marked personal protective equipment for socially important occupational groups. The decision, which aims to ensure the availability of personal protective equipment, has until 12 May resulted in the Swedish Work Environment Authority being able to grant permission to 11.2 million visors and 55.4 million respiratory protection. In addition, the Government has decided on an amendment to the regulation whereby CE-labeled personal protective equipment used to combat the new coronavirus and without instructions in Swedish may be introduced into Sweden and used here provided that the language can be easily understood by the end user, such as health care personnel. The Government has also commissioned the Inspection for Health and Care, IVO, to specifically analyse what covid-19 means for the quality and safety of healthcare and care. The aim is to contribute important knowledge both during the current crisis and in the face of future disease outbreaks. On 16 March, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with ensuring the availability of protective equipment and other medical materials. The mission includes, among other things, responsible for the distribution – and, if necessary, redeployment – of the principals at national level. The County Administrative Boards have been tasked with assisting the National Board of Health and Welfare in the task of coordinating local authorities' situational images and needs for protective equipment and medical supplies. On 12 March, the National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned by the Government to produce, compile and disseminate information to staff in the fields of social services. Within the framework of the assignment, the authority has developed digital training for both new and existing staff to prevent the spread of infection and use of protective equipment. The Covid-19 pandemic carries more risks to the working environment than the risk of infection itself, including mental stress for the staff. The employer must take measures to ensure that workers who are under strong mental stress receive the support they need. Occupational health care also has an important role to play, and their expertise is often necessary to investigate and assess the physical and mental risks, to propose measures and to participate in implementation. Occupational health care can often help with risk assessment and crisis support planning. I do not have time for my full answer, but in order to improve conditions we have also strengthened the financial resources of welfare, municipalities and regions.
i-9cde5187386ec4d8-18	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. The Minister has in the government responsibility for health and safety at work, and in the pandemic that is going on, the working environment for different occupational groups has been brought up to date. This is particularly true for health and social care professionals, who often work closely with patients and who are therefore unable to practice physical distanceting in their jobs. People risk their own lives when they work without protective material, and old people are at risk of being infected by personnel who do not wear protective visors and masks. In April this year, a nurse in her 40s who was infected by covid died ‐ 19. The hospital safety officer reported the death to the police, as the protective equipment did not meet the requirements of the Public Health Agency. A police investigation is initiated on occupational safety and health offences by causing death to others. During the same time the union carried out a so-called stoppage at the retirement home Serafen in Stockholm. The union considered that the accommodation did not provide employees with the protective equipment required by the regulations when working closely with covid-19 patients. The Swedish Work Environment Authority, which investigated the matter, concluded that a stoppage was justified and that the staff should be provided with both visor and mouth protection. Shortly thereafter the Association of Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKR, called the Swedish Work Environment Agency, and after this meeting the Swedish Work Environment Authority withdrew its previous position regarding protective masks. How does the Government view this? I haven't received an answer from the government. This has meant that LO and Kommunal have signed up for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. After all, they have a responsibility to represent their members and because they have sufficient protective equipment. The Minister for Labour is right that health and safety legislation is clear that it is the employer's responsibility to ensure that the staff have the right protection material. But how can they fulfil their commitment when they have not been helped to produce materials for municipal activities? The private care company Attendos CEO was early in the media and appealed for help in coordinating the purchase of protective materials on the global market, but it was silent from the government. Everyone had to solve it more or less on their own. If, for example, we take a small municipality, Bjurholms kommun in Västerbotten with 2 451 inhabitants, then everyone understands that their managers cannot compete in the global market to buy protective equipment for home care staff and retirement homes. How does the Minister think about this, especially when the government has been unclear about how the purchases are to be financed? Madam President, I would like The government's non-existent approach to the management of the coronapandemine has meant that staff have fallen ill and in some cases died. They have not been protected because of the government's failure to act forcefully on regulations and the purchase of protective materials. Unfortunately, it has also meant that we have failed to protect our elderly. My questions therefore remain: does the Minister think that protective materials are an important issue for the health and safety at work? Does the Minister think that she has had a zero vision of protecting the staff of elderly care? And will the Minister take the Swedish Work Environment Authority's ear when it comes to the question of the amended decision at the Swedish Work Environment Authority to satisfy Sweden's Municipalities and Regions?
i-9cde5187386ec4d8-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Désirée Pethrus! I want to start by saying that no one should have to get sick, be injured or die in their workplace. The fact that we have a safe and secure working environment in all our workplaces around our country is the highest priority in my work on health and safety at work, but also in the Government's ambitions for a zero vision, which we have discussed in this House in the past. In the serious situation of the Corona virus, there is no doubt that it is absolutely crucial that workers in elderly care and care have the protective equipment they need to feel safe and secure in their workplaces. It works so today that it is the Public Health Agency as an expert authority that recommends the type of protective equipment you need, but it is always ultimately the employer's responsibility to ensure that the work environment is safe and safe. What we know, and which I also tried to explain in my reply, is that the important dialogue between employers, trade unions and safety representatives does not always work. Of course, I have an ongoing dialogue with the important trade unions in these sectors. I have listened to the Municipal, Health Care Association, the Medical Association, Vision and others who make amazing contributions every day in a very hard-pressed situation, as it is in healthcare and care today. There is no doubt that if unions feel that there are risks and serious deficiencies, they should do exactly as they have done, namely demand that the operation be stopped and that they have an assessment of the situation. It is then the task of the Swedish Work Environment Authority to go in and assess the situation. If there are to be reviews, I welcome the fact that we have the institutions we have, such as the JO. It is also important to say that we are still in the midst of a very serious crisis in our society. I think it will be very important that, after this crisis, we evaluate what we need to take up in the face of future crises and pandemics. In addition to what Mrs Pethrus said in her speech, I think we have already seen that we have not succeeded in caring for the elderly. I would say that it is also a big mistake that we no longer have emergency stocks, because there has been an urgent need for protective equipment. From the government we have really worked day and night and done what we can to ensure the availability of protective equipment. I am proud of the decision that we made, and which is on my table, to give the Swedish Work Environment Authority a special task to develop a fast track to be able to approve protective equipment that is safe and safe but that has not yet been CE marked. Through that decision, as I mentioned, we have produced millions of visors and respiratory protection. Efforts have also been made to ensure that the National Board of Health and Welfare becomes a national purchasing centre, for example. We have really worked hard on this, and we will continue to have to do it. The starting point must always be that we have safe and secure workplaces. No one should have to die, be injured or become ill at their place of work.
i-9cde5187386ec4d8-36	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment. Nevertheless, I am very concerned about what the Minister for Labour is putting forward. It is quite clear that there have been problems with protective materials throughout the journey. It is not something that only I stand and say, but it has also been out and said by Kommunal, which is strongly associated with the Social Democrats. Although the Minister for Labour certainly has good intentions, I think that too little is being done. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, 53 per cent of those over the age of 70 who died as a result of covid-19 have lived in a retirement home. It's more than 1,700 people. In Sweden, we have five times as many deaths as in Norway, and even in relation to Denmark and Finland we find it difficult to explain our high death rates. We cannot say with certainty why there are so different outcomes in the Nordic countries. But I think most people realise that there is a lot that needs to be changed in Sweden in the wake of the pandemic, and especially in the care of the elderly, and we should be dealing with that right now. That is why the Christian Democrats have proposed a crisis commission that should start immediately, not later. We don't know how long this outbreak is going to last. We already need to analyse how we can improve our work to prevent covid-19 from destroying our society in various areas. This work should look clearly at the situation of staff in health care and how we can deal with a pandemic better in the future. Precious reform in the 1990s meant that older, infirm people would no longer be in long-term care clinics but would remain at home with home help or at home-like homes. It was good thought, but it was forgotten that older people actually need staff who have a great knowledge of older people's diseases. That is why we Christian Democrats have proposed 1 billion to improve the working conditions of staff so that there is better continuity of care. In 2018, a home service provider met an average of 15 different staff during a two-week period. And poor schedules contribute to stress and sick leave for the staff. For staff, the stress of a pandemic means that it is particularly unfortunate when you meet older people with an increased risk of infection. If you don't have protective material, things can go really bad. The public health authority would need to be even clearer about the need to use visors and protective masks. In this respect, I believe that the government must act more forcefully. Stockholm Municipality's retirement homes are affected, and the political leadership recently wanted clearer guidelines from the Public Health Agency for protective equipment. Now it seems that Stockholm municipality still starts to apply protective visor and protective mask in several operations, as they see that infection is carried between staff and the elderly without any symptoms. Here I mean that the government should have been able to act. Why is the minister not involved in this work? This is a clear issue for the health and safety at work. Then I also had a question about this with the pressures of working with people in the final stage of life and about the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, which I think should be able to get a mission to follow up on the long-term health consequences. How does the Government view this?
i-9cde5187386ec4d8-43	Madam President, I would like In the serious situation that we are in now, we are not only building up a health debt, on which there has been a discussion in view of the very pressured situation in healthcare and care for the elderly, but we are currently also building up a large health and safety debt. For a long time, people will have to work under heavy workload and with rough working hours, working environment and working conditions. Sometimes the right to leave may also be waived in order to deal with the emergency situation. These are really very pressing issues. I would like to say that I welcome the initiative highlighted by Mrs Pethrus in this debate. I will take it with me in the further work. We have already in dialogue with the authorities highlighted Mynak but also the Swedish Work Environment Authority and how important they are and their important role to follow up support for the work environment but also for research. We will have to deal with both a health and safety debt and we will have an important task in identifying where we stood strong when we entered the crisis but also what we need to ensure for the future. One thing I think was a big mistake was dismantling civil defence and abolishing emergency stocks. I believe that we will be able to draw conclusions that perhaps we have had an over-reliance on the market's ability to solve many different types of problems and that we will see that greater national cohesion and national responsibility are required for several of these areas. As I said, I welcome the initiative that comes from Mrs Pethrus and I am very keen that we can continue to discuss these issues after we have come out of the crisis. What we need to focus on here and now is to ensure a good working environment and ensure that the protective equipment needed and required is in place for all those who are currently performing miracles to save lives and health in our country.
i-9cde5187386ec4d8-49	Madam President, I would like I think it is important for the government to take seriously the staff's concerns about the lack of equipment and protective materials. Recently, it has become apparent that a large proportion of staff in home care and municipal retirement homes consider themselves lacking basic protective equipment in close care situations. Obviously, many suppliers have wanted to contribute, but the government has not acted forcefully enough to listen to them. Staff alerted early on about the lack of protective equipment, and yet the government is slow. In a crisis, it is important to act quickly and forcefully. Resources must not hinder important work to ensure life and health. Unfortunately, in Sweden we have high death rates, which I mean because the government did not act and still does not act on the distress calls from the staff. We have a public health authority that has an important role and that will give the government advice, but that as the government did leave walk-over to the Public Health Agency is not okay. The Swedish people but also the staff in the operations deserve better than that. The Constitution states that the government governs the kingdom and that the government can decide on rules that everyone must comply with in Sweden. I think it is time for the government to take responsibility for ensuring that staff are given the necessary protective equipment to make them feel safe and secure at their workplace, but also for us to protect our elderly from the infection and pandemic. I think that the government needs to be much clearer about taking this seriously, that it is leading the work and that it is not the Public Health Authority but the government that should lead the work. There we are prepared to make sensible proposals, as we have already done in many areas. I hope that we will see a change in this area.
i-9cde5187386ec4d8-54	Madam President, I would like I can inform you that it has been hard work from day one for the government in keeping the focus on ensuring life and health but also of course on alleviating other serious effects that we now see of the coronapndemine. I think about the economy and the jobs. One of my priorities as Minister for Labour is, of course, to ensure that no one has to die, hurt or become ill at work. The protective equipment required by the staff shall be provided. It's the employer's responsibility. The government has taken many different measures to ensure the availability of protective equipment. It is a crucial and crucial issue. I would also like to comment briefly on the fact that I believe that an important conclusion is that we need more secure jobs in the care of the elderly. We need to ensure that more people have secure employment and education. It should simply be permanent employment. For this reason, we have quite recently come up with the initiative that we call the Old Care Lift and which is a way to hook an arm. The government and politics together with the social partners, in this case SKR, and Kommunal ensure that people present in these important activities are better placed to do their important work. Around a quarter of those working in elderly care today do not have a permanent job. I have talked to some municipal councillors who, after the announcement of the Elderly Care Lift themselves together with a staff, sit and call around to find those who have hourly employment and offer them both education and a more secure employment. This is an important starting point. Job security, regardless of the sector in which you work, is an important starting point for delivering quality.
