i-3d81bf413b69383a-7	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration what initiatives the Minister and the Government have taken and intends to take in order to overcome the isolation of detained persons and the conditions prevailing at our Swedish detention centres. This applies, for example, to long periods of detention, especially in the case of children and minors. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The issues raised by Erik Ottoson are urgent and high-priority by the government. Detention is an interventional measure, not least when detention is accompanied by restrictions and goes on for a long time. However, in order to investigate criminal offences, detention may be necessary, including the association of detention with restrictions, for example to prevent a suspect from having contact with suspects, witnesses or plaintiffs, or from otherwise affecting or destroying evidence. This is particularly true when the offence is part of organised or gang-related crime. The rules on detention and restrictions are therefore of great importance for the effective fight against crime. In cases where restrictions are needed, it is therefore important that this possibility continues to exist. On the other hand, it is of course important, when detention is necessary, to minimise the pressure this entails, especially when it comes to young people. It is therefore important, not least from the perspective of children's rights, to work to ensure that detention periods are as short as possible and to reduce the isolation of detainees. At the same time, the ability of the investigating authorities to investigate crimes must not be impaired. The government has taken several measures in this area. R Egeringen has commissioned the Prison Service, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Department Board, to analyse how the situation of children who are deprived of liberty can be improved. The report submitted by the authorities proposes a series of measures to improve the situation of children in custody, including through increased opportunities for interpersonal contact. For several years, the Government has also commissioned the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Swedish Correctional Service to report annually what measures the authorities have taken to reduce the isolation of prisoners in custody. The government is therefore following the issue closely. I also note that the authorities have taken a number of measures regarding detention and restrictions. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office has developed guidelines and regulations and general advice for the prosecutor e.g. on such matters. It is also gratifying to see that the joint development work of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Service in this area has led to good collaboration between the authorities on these issues. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government has commissioned an investigation to suggest how the use of detention and restrictions can be reduced. In the report Fewer in custody and reduced isolation, the investigation makes proposals concerning, among other things, detention periods, restricted use and isolation. The Government intends to return to Parliament in the near future with proposals based on this inquiry.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-16	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That is a comprehensive answer. It is appreciated to have this form of concrete answers to the questions. Unfortunately, you don't get that every time you make interpellations. But it may also have to do with the nature of the questions. This is an issue on which we do not really have any profound ideological conflicts. It is basically about humanity and how we think our society should be designed, from a human perspective. After the Constitutional Committee's hearing with the Ombudsmen, however, I felt it was necessary to set up the interpellation. This problem is regularly referred to. Every year, the Ombudsman's report to Parliament contains question marks and partial criticism. But it is mainly possible to understand that there is quite a lot of concern about the situation in our Swedish detention centres and what it looks like on a humane level. That's the background. I would like the Government to develop how the Government Office monitors the regular reports of the Ombudsmen on this matter. I know that they are mainly addressed to the authorities in question. But there is also a feedback to the Government Office. I also want to hear the Government's thoughts on how to deal with it. We've heard about the feedback from the authorities. But a large part of it is also about the physical conditions for carrying out the activities in the premises that exist, with the staff and resources available and with the powers and regulations that exist. Much of these are things that may seem difficult for an authority to resolve within the limits given. Therefore, a question to the Government is: What concrete measures does the government choose to take in the future, in terms of, for example, resources but also regulatory changes and investments in the prison system? We have a major problem with increased crime. This will inevitably lead to an increase in the number of detainees. In particular, given the legal changes that have been made in terms of when you can and will be detained, there will be more arrests. Then we must respond to the other end so that it will be possible to implement. It is also about things that lie a little in the nature of humanity when working in such a context, with people who are literally captured and held against their will. There are countless more or less disappointing research examples of what is happening socially in such a context. This applies not only to the inmates but also to those who are supposed to be staff in such a place, for lack of better words: jailers. It is about what psychological and social deviations it can sometimes lead to, such as lack of empathy at the moment. Even if man is fundamentally good, in the moment and context it can lead to aversion. They are also taken into account in the examination of the Office by the Ombudsmen. I am interested to hear how the Government views it and what signals and assignments have been given to the Prison Service in particular to avoid this kind of degenerative forward.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for both the interpellation and the statement that this is not an ideologically conflicted issue! It is rather an issue in which we in the Swedish Parliament tend to have a broad consensus, as it is about how we deal with some of the most vulnerable people in our country. We want to do this with a certain degree of humanity in order to reduce the recurrence of crime. There is an idea in Sweden to have good prison operations and institutions that carry out a job that makes fewer relapses into crime. Then the situation in the jails must not look like anything. You also have to work smartly on questions such as how long you are in custody. I would like to emphasise that there is really no player who benefits from too long detention periods. Perhaps the most obvious thing is that the prisoner does not think it would be good. It is also very important that the whole process goes quickly for the plaintiff and witnesses above all so that they can reach a conclusion. This is also important for the courts so that they do not have to retake a lot of proceedings several times and thus extend it all. It steals time from the prosecutors and ultimately for the correctional department. So working as smartly as possible with this is a matter for the whole system. I am well aware of what I have said and that the interpellation is about the long detention periods and the isolation that occur in Sweden. However, I would like to reiterate that I believe that we fully agree that this must be allowed to happen. In the case of serious crime, long detention periods may be needed. Sometimes you also have to limit the ability of the inmate to communicate with others; otherwise you can make it more difficult to go to court. This must still be very clear. Given this, I think several of the questions are very relevant. I would first like to say something about what we have done more concretely. In recent years, the prison service has received special funding increases, and they are needed. Some have been about working to reduce isolation. That's how you work on the issue of funding. We know that the correctional system is up to 100 percent of the population now. Sometimes you're over it. You have double coatings in rooms and so on. The situation is therefore strained both in terms of staff and, as Erik Ottoson suggests, perhaps even more local. It is not always possible to mix people and work in this way if you are stuck in your premises. That is why we are now carrying out a very large expansion of the prison service, but it takes some time. It is about a combination of long-term places and short-term efforts, and we give the Prison Service more opportunities. However, it turned quite quickly. A few years ago the occupancy decreased, and now it is increasing rapidly again. This has mainly happened after 2018 when there was a substantial increase. There were about 500 more adopted only from 2018 to 2019. Since January 2018, 300 new permanent and 300 temporary seats have been added. There is now also a powerful expansion plan. But it is based on the fact that municipalities admit that prisons are being built around Sweden, for example. In addition to this, we have a reporting requirement in the regulations for both the Prison Service and the Swedish Prosecution Authority, which means that they will report how they work to reduce the isolation in custody. I would also like to return to the question of the investigation that has put forward a number of proposals. The points of reference were quite good. But we need to find the right balance for this so that we do not reduce the ability of law enforcement authorities to investigate crimes and do so with the best possible conditions. As I said in my reply, I expect to come back in the near future with a bill on this, which concerns, among other things, the fact that children have been in detention for a long time and that their opportunities to socialize with others have also been limited. These are issues that we must take very seriously.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! I think it is important to have clear lines of responsibility. The Authority clearly has a very clear responsibility for the implementation of this responsibility within its remit. The government has the opportunity and responsibility to ensure that there are conditions for the agency. I think that the Government describes in a good way what has been done and what may possibly come future. However, I call for there to also be a plan not only to increase the seats but also how this will develop. A series of penalties are up for discussion. This will continue to place even greater demands on the Prison Service to deal with, if possible, even more people in prisons and prisons in the future. Then we need a plan that takes altitude for this. This can also be linked to the situation we see outside these walls with an increasing level of crime and insecurity. This is often the reason why we are taking steps to tighten penalties and give the police more powers. In the end, we'll have more people in custody. I want to hear the Minister develop his thoughts on how he views such a plan. Has the government really counted on this? It is not just an increase, but also an increase that will be sufficient. At present, it does not seem likely, given the rate of increase in the number of places. This also applies to how the rate of increase can be calculated with the penalties, the changed arrest rules and so on. The police's powers that make it possible to investigate more crimes also play a role here. These crimes have previously been unsolved or at least have not led to a detention. I would also like to come back to what can be called cultural issues within the framework of the Prison Service's work and human resources work. We receive regular reports from, among other things, the Ombudsmen's review of the prison service where errors and sometimes very serious ones are committed. This involves, among other things, degrading treatment of inmates. Basically good people do inappropriate and unreasonable things in the context where they may not really take the dignity of the inmate seriously. It is a question of how to work on this. Of course, it is not possible at any given moment to control the individual employee, but politically high demands must be made for an important core work of an authority such as the Correctional Service. It is, as the Government says, responsible for people when they are at their most vulnerable in a very difficult situation for the individual. If you are not treated with a reasonable level of dignity, then of course, there is an even greater restriction on your own freedom and dignity. I would like to hear a few words about this. I think there is reason to come back to this in the future. As I said, this has been a long sequel. Measures have been taken in the past, but the problems persist in many ways. If I can get back to what we started with in terms of the number of places and local and staff conditions, this is also the background to my interpellation. These must not only match but, in this situation, marginally exceed the increase in the number of people who are detained and may later end up in prison in order to be able to graze off and catch up with the problems that we have seen in Sweden for too many years.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-40	Madam President, I would like The interpellant raises many questions. Let me start with those dealing with the emergency situation. As part of Operation Rimfrost, the police have informed the Correctional Service that there are now more prisoners. The Correctional Service is also part of Operation Rimfrost to find the detention and detention centres needed in the special effort that goes very hard on the serious criminals who stand for violence in Sweden. Of course, we have a specific situation now that the police are very offensive. The goal is to put more of the gang criminals in prison to reduce the violence and shootings. This affects all authorities, so also, of course, the Prison Service. However, there is good cooperation on this. They are fully involved in how to work to deal with the situation, even if it is strained for the Prison Service right from the start. The correctional services are now receiving additional funding. In the spring change budget they received 335 million. Another SEK 330 million was awarded for the period 2019–2020. You get SEK 569 million in 2021 and SEK 729 million in 2022. Correctional services are in an enormous phase of expansion. Our interest is that it is a combination of temporary things that need to come to here and now and places that increase capacity in the long term. In our work, we try to look at the whole legal chain, the effects of the growing police organization and what happens on the prosecution, the court and the penitentiary side. The idea is also that at the next stage, when the number of police officers is increasing throughout the country, it will have a dampening effect. It's one thing now that you're very offensive and it becomes a so-called taking effect. But we also hope that police resources will lead to a slightly fewer crime and a somewhat calmer situation. This is part of the equation when we make this great bet. I'm on some slippery ice when it comes to the Prison Service, because it's actually handled by Morgan Johansson. Perhaps the more detailed questions concerning staff and such matters should not be answered in more detail. I know that such work is in progress. There have been some problems in terms of recruitment and getting a long-term perspective in this, but I know that it is being taken very seriously. However, I would like to say that the results of the Prison Service have improved over time, which perhaps not everyone knows. So fewer people relapse into crime after their stay today than about ten years ago. I believe that this is linked to the training efforts now being made in the Prison Service. People get vocational training that leads to them having something else to go to afterwards. We'll see if it's the whole truth, but it's still a positive result for the Prison Service's work in the future. Now we are expanding the whole legal chain with big investments. But I think it is important, at this point, to also consider what can be made more effective in the justice chain. Take, for example, the long detention periods. An investigation that I have received and that I am very interested in is about going through the court proceedings for not least the large and complicated criminal cases. For example, in the case of financial crime, it is often very long detention periods, because it is complicated. Now there are proposals on how to limit the processes, focus on the examination of the debt issue and thus free up time. All parties would benefit from it. It is the same with faster prosecution, a process that I believe will free up resources throughout the legal chain. It's about the police saying in case of minor crime on the ground: Either you confess or you have an appointment in court in two weeks. We have to work on the speed of the processes, so that we don't drive people around the system for too long. It won't be good for anyone.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-49	Madam President, I would like I understand that this is an important and sometimes complicated distinction between the performance of the duties of Minister Damberg and Morgan Johansson. A funny parenthesis in this context is that I wrote the interpellation to Minister Damberg, but that the chamber cabinet thought it was probably Morgan Johansson it should be made to. The Government Office, on the other hand, thought it was for Minister Damberg. I am just saying this to illustrate the complexity of the division of responsibilities within the framework of a government formation. I understand this. You can think about it, but I'm sure it works great. I assume you have a good cooperation. To return to the issue: The Government is talking about the fact that we now of course have an inflow effect due to, among other things, Operation Rimfrost and the increased number of police officers. He expects over time a restraining effect of an increased number of police officers. I may be a born skeptic, but I believe it when I see it. It remains to be seen, as I said. I wonder whether the level of the coverage of the prison system should in future be based on such an assumption. Perhaps the Government would like to clarify this. I question that it will have such an effect. I think we have rather structural problems that cannot be addressed here and now. It must be done in the longer term. The recruitment and the vacuum created by an influx into detention centres and detention centres create the opportunity for other people to take the same role. It's something we see in organised crime; it's not just locking up the existing ones – it's also coming new ones. This leads me to question to some extent that this will eventually have an inhibitory effect. I wish it were true, and I hope it is. But, Madam President, it remains to be seen. Thank you for a good debate.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to clarify the last. I think the Moderates and the Social Democrats are quite in agreement. We believe that more police officers are reducing crime and that more police officers around us are creating security and less opportunity for crime. I believe that there is such a long-term effect with a stronger police organisation. This leads in the long term to greater security in rest areas, in the centre or whatever we can talk about. I think so. What we are looking at now is a substantial expansion of the Prison Service, a substantial expansion of the judiciary and additional resources for the prosecution service. It's more of a long-term development I was talking about. We need to have stronger capacity in our detention centres and in the Prison Service to deal with this situation. Back to the interpellant's basic question: It is important to handle the long detention periods. This applies not least to the way children are treated in detention centres. There we have received international criticism for a very long time, not least in terms of isolation. There is more to be done to make this more effective and to ensure that you are detained for as long as you need to. I would like to conclude with the obvious, on which we and the Moderates agree. When there is a need for detention, it should be done. If there is a need to isolate prisoners, it should also be done. There is nothing to risk the investigative work done in order to reach convictions in Swedish courts. We must not compromise on that. However, the investigation has made a series of proposals which we will very likely be able to agree that we can proceed with shortly.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-56	Madam President, I would like Juno Blom has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration if he is prepared to take steps to develop a comprehensive national strategy to combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression against children. In addition, Juno Blom has asked the Minister of Justice and Migration whether he is prepared to take steps to set up a national centre for missing children, which will, among other things, gather and make available knowledge of how many children are missing and how this can be prevented, thereby strengthening the ability of social services and other actors to act on the matter. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I would like to start by thanking Juno Blom for raising these very important questions about how society can improve support and protection for children who are victims of violence. Honour-related violence and repression constitute totally unacceptable violations of human rights and the rights of the child. Children and young people in Sweden will grow up in safe conditions in freedom from violence and oppression. The government parties' agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals highlights a series of measures aimed at halting the crimes of honour. The government has also taken a number of other initiatives in recent years that are particularly relevant in the work against honour-related violence and repression. In many cases, the work to combat violence against children has points of contact with the work to combat men's violence against women. Increased protection for children and young people against violence is a central area in the national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women 2017 – 2026 and the action programme included therein. The government believes that there is a need for a continued comprehensive approach to combat violence against children. According to the objective of the policy on children's rights, all children must have their rights met, and efforts to ensure this for not least vulnerable groups of children continue. Strengthening the perspective of children's rights in social services and social care for children and young people is important to improve the situation of some of the most vulnerable children. For example, the Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to make proposals on how opportunities to give open interventions without consent to children and young people can increase, so that the interventions can be given in more cases and in more situations. The assignment includes reviewing the provision on so-called inter-obligation in the Act (1990:52) on the care of young people, including whether inter-obligation should be decided upon in the case of shortcomings in the young person's home environment, for example in the case of honour-related problems. The mandate shall be presented on 2 December 2020. The Government has also commissioned Barnafrid at Linköping University to carry out educational efforts for the country's child housing activities on honor-related violence and oppression and its various forms of expression child marriage, forced marriage and genital mutilation. Increasing the knowledge of children who disappear and preventing this from happening is extremely important. For several years, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland has held a comprehensive national government mission on honor-related violence and repression, including knowledge development. The mission has been strengthened for 2020. The Foreign Service plays an important role in the fight against the abduction of children against their will. The government has strengthened the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' work for children, young people and families who have been in need abroad with a focus on child and forced marriages. The initiative has increased the capacity to deal with this type of case in the foreign administration, as well as the development of working methods and knowledge that are valuable also for prevention efforts in the municipalities. It is important, but it is also of the utmost importance that we prevent children from being taken abroad at all. The final report "Enhanced protection against honour-related crime" (SOU 2018:69) proposes a penalised exit ban for children who are at risk of being expelled from Sweden for the purpose of marriage or genital mutilation. The report also addresses the issue of increasing the possibility of keeping statistics on honour-related crime. The report is currently being prepared within the Government Office, and the ambition is to decide on a proposal in spring 2020. In conclusion, the issues raised by Juno Blom in their interpellation concern very serious societal problems. A number of measures are under way to combat honour-related violence and repression and violence against children, but significant challenges remain. We can never accept children being subjected to violence.
i-HM1zNq9YVPkV9KgcHhzofy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Lindhagen! Sweden is a country full of opportunities for most children who grow up here. The perception that the child is an individual has gained a greater hearing in Sweden than in most other countries. But now there are alarm signals about society's inability to protect the most vulnerable children that we must take very seriously. This applies to children who are victims of violence and sexual abuse in the environments where they should feel the most secure, at home and at school. This also applies to all children who have been taken out of the country at risk of child marriage, genital mutilation or attempts to reverse sexual orientation. We are no longer able to protect children who are victims of the most serious forms of violence when the perpetrators are adults in the child's immediate vicinity or other young people, not least at school. Any case of violence or abuse that society does not stop means a child who does not have access to life, health and security and is thus limited from fully developing. Due to the lack of a position and the power to act from responsible politicians and authorities, Sweden becomes too many children far from the country of opportunity. I've met those kids behind the statistics. I have faced their fear, their powerlessness and their freedom. I've listened to hundreds of different stories of betrayal from the adult world. I chose politics when I felt that politics had rejected children. In Sweden, parental rights are strong, which we must dare to challenge. Instead, when children put the key in the door at home, which should be their safe castle, the home has turned into a crime scene for too many children. If violent children are to receive the right support and protection, we politicians and responsible authorities must realise that the guardian is now also an perpetrator, and the vulnerable child is a victim of crime. This is certainly a serious problem in a family, but it is not a family problem. It's serious crime. That is why I put the question to the Minister of Justice. If we are serious, we cannot see that a national strategy against men's violence against women is the solution to children's exposure to violence. Exposed children have the right to a focus of their own. The national strategy to combat violence against children should cover all the risks of violence to children. The state must ensure that every child is protected through education, social measures and clear legislation. Authorities are obliged to provide violent children with the support and protection they are entitled to and need. Through a clear structure for the division of roles and responsibilities between authorities, the conditions for the cooperation necessary to best combat violence against children and give the already vulnerable children the right to care, support and protection are increased. The strategy shall also include measures to highlight and prevent, identify, investigate, rehabilitate and follow up violence against children. A national strategy is the prerequisite for a coherent policy. The issues concern many different authorities as well as municipalities, county councils and civil society. The individual child should be given the opportunity to make his or her voice heard. Legislation needs to be widely reviewed, and the transnational dimension that means that children can be taken out of Sweden must be included. This is how we prevent children from being judged by different standards. All too often, children are treated in different ways, depending on their foreign background, place of residence, disability, status as unaccompanied minors, parents with mental illness or abuse. The strategy must also have a clear focus on children exposed to honour-related violence and repression in all its forms of expression. Liberals have never ducked to reality, turned a blind eye to vulnerability or freedom. The reality can be difficult to take in, but it is when we choose to see it as we can make changes. Investing in our vulnerable children is investing in our common future.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-77	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is gratifying to see that more parties are pushing the fight against honour-related violence and repression. There is something that does not belong here in Sweden and preferably not anywhere else either. But unfortunately we have it in Sweden. As the honourable Member mentioned in her interpellation, it is 18 years since Fadime was murdered, and we still have the problem in Sweden. We may be a tolerant country, as Juno describes in his interpellation, but I think we are a wrong for tolerant country. We need to be better at standing up for our Swedish rights and values. Here in Sweden, everyone should be able to decide for themselves what they want to do in their lives, where they want to study, which they want to marry etcetera. But we still haven't overcome the problem. Maybe it's because the government has been naive. Recently, I had an interpellation debate in which I highlighted the problem that few municipalities provide statistics on how many children are taken abroad. It is extremely important that all municipalities provide statistics on this so that we can overcome it. I mentioned that we need to keep national statistics in order to prevent abductions but also to deal with cases where children have already been taken away from the country. In the debate, I met Minister Morgan Johansson, and he said the same thing as the Government says here that there are several laws under way. I agree with Mr Bloms's interpellation that more needs to be done, as I have also pointed out on several occasions. We have a government that calls itself child- and woman-friendly. In fact, however, we have a government that is dangerous to children and women. This applies both to politics within Sweden and our politics abroad. As I began by saying, it is gratifying to see that several parties are pursuing the fight against honour-related violence and repression. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Juno if she and her party are prepared to speak with the Swedish Democrats. You can influence and appoint new authorities, make laws etc. without the government approving it as long as you have a majority in the Riksdag. In addition, we can remove the government as early as next week if we want to. So to my question. Is Juno Blom and her party prepared to sit down and discuss this with the Swedish Democrats, or is it more important for her that Stefan Löfven remains in office?
i-3d81bf413b69383a-86	Madam President, I would like It is mixed compote here, as you can see. When it comes to the problem of honour-related violence and oppression and violence against children, it is absolutely crucial that we work to take steps forward. These are priority issues for the government. We have provided a great deal of resources over time and also during the last parliamentary term to strengthen the work against men's violence against women, including the vulnerability of children in particular. This applies both to children who are victims of violence and to children who grow up in homes where there is violence. They get very bad from seeing violence between adults, mostly directed at mother. We have a lot of things we need to do better. We fully agree that we need to do more. Do we measure up in society today? No, we don't. This also brings out very clearly in the interpellation of Members of Parliament Juno Blom. She runs the questions in different ways for many years. I have great respect for that fight. This applies to the great genuine commitment that exists to the individual child that the Member of Parliament has in front of him. This applies to the meetings she has had for many years, but also to the great commitment that we need to change at a structural level. We agree that we are not doing well enough. There are many areas where we see that we are failing for the situation of children in Sweden today. This applies not least to what was highlighted about parental rights. We must dare challenge parental rights. It rings into a nutshell not least when we talk about social services and the laws we have. It is about the possibility for social services to go in and provide support for a child who needs help if the parents say no, where legislation prevents social services from going in and providing help. These are very high demands for social services to get past their parents if they block the child's opportunities to get support and help. That's where we put parenting rights in a nutshell. One of the things I highlight in the interpellation response is precisely the mission. There is a great deal of commitment, not least on the part of the Liberals, to take steps forward on this point. There is one thing we need to do, but we need to do a lot more. It is also a fact that there are shortcomings with regard to statistics today. This was highlighted earlier by the honourable Member. The National Skills Team at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, which is doing an extremely important job, has taken the initiative to produce statistics on children who are being taken out of Sweden and are suffering in different ways. Today we do not know how many children this is. One thing we have done is a change in legislation that has given principals an increased responsibility to report school absences to the school principal. We must react on the part of society if you come back to school after school holidays and benches are empty. But we also need to do more to ensure that children are not taken out of the country at all. The issue of developing a national strategy on violence against children, which takes a holistic approach to these issues, was highlighted. We have said in the 2020 budget that we should take a concerted approach to the work against violence against children. This is an extremely important issue. This morning I have met a number of children's rights organisations and discussed children's rights in Sweden today. One of the issues they raise is precisely a national strategy to combat violence against children. This is therefore an issue that has been raised from several quarters of society. And I understand that the issue is being raised, because, as I said, we need to take steps forward, be better and protect children from violence.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-96	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced, Åsa, that we agree that violence against children is an extremely serious social problem. At the same time, I think it is the measures that must be taken. It was frustration over this that led me to get into politics. It is not enough to speak, but it must also be acted upon. I'm thinking about statistics. We have statistics on most things. Before I came here, I searched and found out that there are 643 women and 78 men named Juno. I got that through a push of a button. But we have no idea how many children have been taken out of Sweden over the years. The Ekott noted last year that only 13 per cent of the country's municipalities were aware of this. This year, Dagens Nyheter reported on this. And now, as Åsa Lindhagen said, the National Skills Team on its own initiative has sent out a survey, which I think is incredibly important in order to make it visible that this is an issue that we really need to take the most seriously. Since the County Administrative Board's national support phone started, we can see that 275 children and young people have been taken out of Sweden against their will. I usually think about my daughters, who are blond and blue-eyed. What if there were 273 more of those who were not among us? Would we have waited to act, as we have done in these cases? I've been thinking a lot about this when we've been talking about children who have been taken out of the country by guardians who are IS terrorists. Then there has been a political activity. I think it's important never to put children against each other, but I've been surprised that you've rarely even thought about how to help these other children. These are children I've had contact with. They've been in touch and in despair. Many times it has been that they have been in placement and that soon thereafter it has been assessed that the guardians have changed their behaviour. The child has not felt security in this. I can see that in the cases I have met where children and young people have been taken out of the country, they have often signalled to one or more authorities about fear. Once again, one has believed what has been the confession of lips when one has spoken to the guardians, who say that this should not happen. But we can't protect the children. Parents take children to countries from which they have fled quite recently without a major reaction. Therefore, as a first step, I think it would be very important to give a mission to more authorities. It has been sought that you have to work much wider. It is a task to develop procedures to prevent children and young people from being taken out of the country. It is also about routines and discussions about what will happen when a municipality becomes aware that a child is not in the municipality, where one has identified a chair that is empty in school, and does not really know what to do. It is therefore both a question of preventing, which is absolutely primary, and of the cases that we are unable to prevent. How can we make sure to take all possible steps to bring the child home? I see a great need for us to come up with such a proposal on a mission together and ensure that it is in place. It's something I've been looking for for for years. When it comes to the honourable Member's question, I am thinking of the parliamentary situation we have. On the issues that are important, it is always the case when we put proposals in committee – these are issues that we have pushed and will push – that the wider the majority you get to get their ideas through, the better it is of course. However, within the framework of the January agreement, I will be pushing hard on this issue. I will not give up, and I see it as self-evident that if we agree, we agree.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-107	Madam President, I would like As the Government says, we do not know for sure how many children are taken abroad, which is terrible. It is 18 years since Fadime was murdered, and we are still no further than that. I do not feel that the honourable Member is really answering my question. Instead, she chooses to duck. We know that the government is failing these children and women, and it has been doing so for a long time. Now we still have the opportunity to actually remove the government, but the Liberals then choose to support Stefan Löfven in all situations. They put party politics ahead of what is best for children and women. I therefore choose to ask the same question once again to Juno Blom: Is Juno Blom prepared to sit down with his party and discuss this with the Swedish Democrats? Or is party politics more important than what is important for children and young people?
i-3d81bf413b69383a-110	Madam President, I would like I can note that there is a completely obvious lack of proposals from the Swedish Democrats on what to do. What the Swedish Democrats go forward and highlight is the question of how to remove the government, but they do not have a single proposal on what to do for these children and young people. And what should we do to improve the situation of women? I think that is what we should put our energies on, and I am very interested in what proposals the Swedish Democrats have. Surely this is what has carried most of us into politics. We have entered politics because we believe that politics is a force for change. You can help change society in many different ways – in civil society, in your workplace, but also in politics. I return to the question, which is, among other things, about preventing children from being taken abroad. Do we need to do more here? Yeah. A concrete proposal was made that we need to give a mission to the authorities to work together on these issues. I think it is important that we look at this and I would like to talk more about these issues. I know that the Member of Parliament has a great deal of knowledge about the shortcomings and what we might need to do in the future. I thank you for this, and we continue to discuss it here and on the further proposals that we need to take steps forward to improve for children and young people. Not least, it is about the proposal that we will be presenting shortly. It is precisely about the ban on exit and the possibility of blocking passports. We work with our activities in municipalities, regions and authorities to prevent children from being taken abroad and to get the protection and support they need. But we also work with legislation to make it more difficult for children to be taken abroad in different ways.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-115	Madam President, Åsa Lindhagen and the honourable Member. Here's the thing: If there's anything I'm completely safe with, it's that I will forever fight for these issues. If there is one thing I am equally convinced of, it is that there is important work in the committees. That is what we are voting on in this House, and it is also in the committees that we can put together in cases where our political ideas coincide. I see no problem doing so on this issue or on other issues. On the other hand, I am convinced that the most important task I have in the future is to form part of an agreement in which I believe that together we are obliged to respond to questions and put forward political proposals that are widely supported in this House. The conflict between vulnerable children and those who expose them is so much more serious than the fact that we are here discussing party politics. On the other hand, I will never be silent. As long as we do not deliver, I will stand here time and time again and make visible the duty we have as Members to really take on these issues. I myself was an investigator when the national strategy against men's violence against women was developed, and I think it is important to remember that the child there always becomes an appendage to the adult woman. If I had not gone against the investigative directives, which I also received criticism for initially, there would not have been a word about the children in it. That wasn't part of it. That is why I know that it is not extensive enough to see children's own vulnerability. Then it goes without saying that there are points of contact that we should take very seriously. But I also believe that the action plans we are drawing up must be much clearer with senders, how much money we spend and when they are to be accounted for. There is currently a lack of policy.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-121	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for raising the issues. Thank you also for the fact that the Member of Parliament will never be silent! I fully agree that it is the delivery that matters. It is the only thing that determines whether a politician has earned his mission or not. I don't know if I've earned my mission. I will do my best to feel it when this time is one day over. Do we need to take more concrete steps forward? Yes, we do. We need concrete assignments to authorities, we need to work on legislation and we also need to have specific actions aimed at children. Children's rights perspective needs to be integrated into everything we do. It needs to be in the national strategy against men's violence against women. However, I share the view that this is not enough. We also need to make specific efforts that are simply about taking steps forward to improve the situation. Once again, I would like to thank you for the important discussion that we have had in this House.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-126	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what I am going to do to ensure legal certainty in the management of company controls carried out by the Swedish Transport Agency. In recent years important regulatory changes have been made in order to contribute to better compliance on the road. Among other things, ordering responsibility has been tightened, penalties have been imposed for infringements of the rules on cabotage transport and it has become possible to trample vehicles for up to 36 hours in order to prevent travel. Additional funding has been provided to the Police Authority, which has been able to further train about 400 police officers and car inspectors to improve and streamline checks on heavy goods vehicles on the road. In the autumn of 2017, the Government decided on changes to regulations that reduced the penalty fees for minor offences while increasing them for more serious offences. The Swedish Transport Agency also had an increased opportunity to reduce or waive fines in the event of non-compliance in the context of a company inspection.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-130	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister Tomas. I am sure the Government will have the impression that he will now receive some criticism. In the answer I received to the interpellation, roadside checks and such things came up. That's not what the question was about. It was about the Swedish Transport Agency's ability to make legally secure checks. The government has set up an investigation to see how we will be doing with this business in the future, and that is good. But why let the business shrink in the meantime? I can't quite understand that. I have previously been critical of the Swedish Transport Agency's controls. This is because before I entered the Riksdag I had a lot of work on the control activities and how the Swedish Transport Agency actually performs the controls. I continue with my criticism. I do not think that the Swedish Transport Agency is the right authority to carry out checks at company premises. That claim is based on the fact that the investigations are repeatedly being trampled on. It is one thing to lose errands or to show up vehicles and drivers who do not belong in an investigation, but when you do not even read the legal text correctly, it is serious. As a result, many, both drivers and haulage companies, feel completely extradited. I received an email at the end of last week from a driver who had a bad conscience for his employer's sake because he caused the employer costs of $100,000. He says he works in a serious trucker and understands if the employer gets tired. He wonders if he should take his dog and become a beggar instead because he feels his situation is quite difficult. According to the legal text, how should you act when making a check at a company's premises? What is the support for imposing fines? This can be found in Regulation 2004:865, where in Chapter 9. Paragraph 8 states: a fine shall be imposed on the carrier in the cases referred to in Sections 4, 5, 6 or 9 if it has not done what has been imposed on the carrier. ..................................................... What, then, is the responsibility of the company? Well, that's planning the business in such a way that drivers can comply with the regulations. It should also be monitored that drivers do so, and when faults are detected, the fault should be pointed out to the driver. If this is about a knowledge gap, the driver should receive sufficient training to be able to do the right thing. I have done a few hundred lectures and trainings in haulage on this particular subject. I also know many companies out there doing a fantastic job. But that's not enough. They still receive high fines. A company in this city with very seasonal activities and up to 450 drivers in its orbit has asked the authority: What should we do to be able to do the right thing? In fact, they receive fines for each check. And we're not talking about pennies. It's gonna land at the maximum. You can't keep doing this. Finally, the reputation of the operator disappears. The most frightening thing about this is that an entrepreneur is charged a fine for a crime committed by a driver after he has gone home from regular work. If so, we have a new order in our country.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-142	Madam President, I would like Firstly, with regard to future more effective controls, I believe that Thomas Morell is well aware that I consider it important to both improve and strengthen controls. It is also one of the reasons why the investigator should look not only at how we can use the exchange of sanctions to a greater extent but also at a new, unified form of organisation. I myself have spoken of a traffic inspection. And who knows, it may actually be people who have experience in the transport sector and have worked for a long time who can be involved in carrying out controls to a greater extent – so that it will not be like today, where it is often demanded, not least in the case of checks on the road, that there should be trained police officers. In this way, we can relieve the police and at the same time perhaps have new staff categories that can help with the checks on the way. It is necessary for us to have safe traffic out there and for us to be able to prosecute now that we have tightened the legislation with, among other things, clapping and, not least, winter tyre legislation. On the other hand, when we come to the question of legal certainty, I am a little perplexed at the way Thomas Morell argues. If it is as legal uncertainty as Thomas Morell argues for, what is the legal statistics like? 19% appeal – that's a pretty small percentage. It's a missing small part where the court goes against the Swedish Transport Agency's judgment. If I interpret Thomas Morell's right, it means that the court is either wrong – it is serious if one as a Member of Parliament accuses the courts of doing wrong, because they are supposed to judge impartially on the basis of the legislation we have, and I therefore hope and assume that it is not Thomas Morell's starting point, but I still ask for safety – or there must be something special in the legislation that Thomas Morell points to that needs to be changed or clarified. I was keen that we made a change and liberalisation, one might say, of legislation in order to tackle systematic abuse and errors in driving and rest rules and the like. If omissions or mistakes are made, you can even say on the spot that this is not the case. It is one way of getting better application, increasing confidence and facilitating the care of those who do so that a driver does not accidentally incur heavy charges for his haulage company, as mentioned here. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Thomas Morell: on what basis more than an anecdotal evidence would Thomas Morell like to claim that there are obvious shortcomings and legal uncertainty? Is that the court case? What judgments are we talking about? Is it a large proportion of judgments that have gone against the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal?
i-3d81bf413b69383a-148	Madam President, I would like I still read a lot of these cases, and it can be noted that once the Swedish Transport Agency has made its decision and there is an appeal to the administrative court, the administrative court is almost exclusively concerned with what the Swedish Transport Agency has decided. I'll give an example to the Government. I will read out parts of the decision but not read the name of the company, as you can see. It says: that the company has changed ownership during the control period does not deprive you of responsibility for the infringements found throughout the control period. After the data on vehicles and drivers came in November, you discovered major shortcomings in both routines and follow-up. Routines were not written down but had only been conveyed orally. Analysis programs existed but were not used. As soon as you learned about this, you introduced procedures and follow-up work in the form of written instructions, driver training in driving and rest times, handling of tachographs and the Road Working Time Act. Then you turn the page – and now you will listen carefully, because this is where it gets exciting. It goes on to say that the measures taken are relevant, but they are mainly taken after the period checked and are therefore irrelevant in relation to current infringements. Therefore, in our opinion, you have not shown that you have done what has come upon you to prevent the infringements of drivers. Further down it says: You are therefore to be charged with fines of a total amount of SEK 375 012. We are talking about a company that buys another company. Before the new owner steps in as owner, a check has been made when faults and defects have been detected. When the new owner enters the company, action is taken immediately, but the new owner is still punished for what the old owner has done. It's a new order in our case law if that's how it's supposed to be. I can take one more example. Let's just say I've run a trucker. I haven't followed the rules at all. The government buys the ride from me and keeps it going. Transportstyrelsen does a check and finds that I've made a mistake, but it's the government that's taking the fall. What are the consequences? Well, the errors that I have made are being taken over by you, and it is your good reputation that is then called into question by the supervision of the supervisory authority. As a result, your traffic license may be revoked. This is a particularly serious development. There was a conference last autumn where the Government was also present and where this report that I hold in my hand was presented. I'm not going to read the full report, because then we have to do all day, but I'm going to read a pretty important conclusion. This is what it says: Company controls are perceived in the industry as too square. Despite several changes and adjustments to the system, the problem remains, according to the industry. It is clear that the Swedish Transport Agency's company controls have problems with legitimacy in the industry. It is serious when an authority does not have legitimacy in an entire industry, and then we are talking about both the haulage industry and the bus industry.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-159	Madam President, I would like It is serious if there are problems with legitimacy. It is not just one party, but several parties have responsibility for the relationship. For me, it has been important to strengthen controls and also now to investigate how we can gain more effective control over professional traffic. I think it's really important. The investigator has the opportunity to have a good relationship with reference groups during the investigation period and listen to the industry's views. My view and what I make myself alive is that it has been very grateful that the government is now finally acting. We had very many years with a moderate-led government when nothing happened: no fines, no complaints, no customer responsibility and no stricter controls. It was then the free market and liberalisation that were in place. Now it's a different order. Now we are tightening up legislation, now we are increasing controls and now we are investigating the possibility of more effective checks on professional traffic. Thomas Morell says that the Administrative Court is almost exclusively on the proposal of the Swedish Transport Agency. Yes, but the right to vote is a court of law. They do not go by definition on government proposals but have the task of interpreting the legislation and judging. There is no political opinion, but it is actually an impartial court. If Thomas Morell questions the independence of the courts, he can say so directly to the House. Otherwise, the point is that there should be a discussion about which legislation we then need to amend. Here I am open to all suggestions, no doubt about that. I am very open to finding more proposals to ensure that those who behave better and that we can prevent systematic abuse of driving and rest time rules or other shortcomings in the transport sector. My starting point and the whole government's starting point is that we should have controls on transport of good quality and with good legitimacy. Since the interpellation is about legal uncertainty, I am, once again, confused about whether it is the courts that Thomas Morell is now attacking. Then it's a little more serious. The courts have the task of independently interpreting the legislation we have. If we think it is wrong, we will have to come back with changes in legislation and with proposals. Once again, with the investigation that exists, we are investigating various proposals. Thomas Morell is also welcome to take part in the debate. However, I find it difficult for a discussion that also undermines confidence in the judicial application of the law. We must respect the fact that they are applying the law we have today.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-165	Madam President, I would like I'll be more than happy to take part in conversations so we can get some order on this. The problem is that the working method applied by the Swedish Transport Agency lets the cheater through, because it is not discovered. Then you keep counting and looking for where there is missing a button press, where it is a few minutes wrong, if the driver went home on Friday without taking out his driver card and so on. Human error that can easily occur does not automatically mean that the employer has not done what is incumbent on him. A driver can actually make a mistake without it being punishable for the employer. There's where it's been completely turned over. You can show a fault that the driver has made, but it is the employer who has to pay at all times. This is where it's gone crazy. My proposal to the Government – please accept it, and so we can sit down and discuss the future – is to move back the controls at the companies' premises to those who are out on the road. Then you gain several advantages. One is that when you stand on the road and discover an error you can directly make a company visit. Visits can also be made to companies' premises around the country. It is not possible today, because now everyone is up in Umeå. Another thing is to ensure the competence of the controls, and to get to those who actively cheat. Today, they slide through the system without being punished. That's the concern. The conscious cheating can penetrate the system without action. It won't hold. I'd love to come back. I would be more than happy to do so.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-170	Madam President, I would like I note that, despite the anecdotal evidence, there is nothing to contradict what I am saying: that there is a missing small part of the legal cases actually being examined that goes against the application of the Swedish Transport Agency. That's Thomas Morell's challenge. A description is given of the fact that there is complete legal uncertainty when the courts judge and establish that it is right to act by the responsible authority. Misunderstand me right! I have no concern that we will tighten up the legislation further if this proves necessary. I really like the idea – I have launched it myself – of developing controls on the road, towards a professional traffic inspection. This whole approach during this term of office is about strengthening confidence in the sector of the haulage industry that is taking care of itself. It is about ensuring that those who do so have better conditions and better conditions of competition. This can be about illegal cabotage or the use of the combined directive under the Mobility Pact or how we actually act in Sweden. This is important because the transport industry is important. It is important for Sweden as an industrial country. It is important as a major employer. It is important that the transport industry has good conditions because more and more people need to go to it, both men and women. But then we must be careful how we describe it. If we describe it as a completely legally insecure activity, we give an incorrect description – according to the legislation we have today and how the courts apply it. I think it is important for Thomas Morell to nuance himself. Then I think it's great that more people are involved and want to come up with proposals on how to get more effective controls and better regulation. We have now set up an investigation that can be a group of experts and a reference group and that can listen to industries, experts and others who have views. Everyone is welcome to comment on this investigation. I hope that we will have even tougher controls in the future and even better conditions for a good and fair transport industry.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-175	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me a question about Swedish taxi business. I would like to emphasise that all taxi operations should be carried out in accordance with the rules in force and that the existence of criminal activities is serious. The black economy withholds tax revenue, distorts competition and risks financing criminal activities. According to the Taxi Traffic Act, it is punishable to drive a taxi if the driver does not have a taxi driver's ID or does not have the right to temporarily practise the taxi driver's profession. It is also punishable to hire such a driver. It is also punishable if taxi services are operated without a permit. Several authorities have a responsibility in the control and supervision of taxi operations. The authorities' missions differ, but in order to overcome the cheating, they need to cooperate. For example, earlier this year the Swedish Tax Agency started a special review of the provision of illegal taxi services in social media. The Swedish Tax Agency's control aims to counteract unfair competition that affects legal taxi operations. Over the past few years, two different services that have said they are providing car sharing services have been discontinued since several of their drivers have been convicted of illegal taxi services. In order to strengthen control activities, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to review the control of taxi traffic, among other things. The investigator shall propose improvement measures and a proposal for a single organisational form for control activities. As the taxi area is part of the mission to the investigation on more effective checks on road traffic, I believe that there is no reason to decide on additional directives for this investigation.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-182	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We're almost becoming a sequel in here when we discuss the controls. As far as taxi services are concerned, there is a huge problem. At the time when I was out on the road doing checks, it was still the taximeter and rest time book – or storybook, as we called it – that was handled by this legislation. Today, however, there is another type of illegal commercial traffic on the taxi side. There was black taxi back then, too. They were a little easier to find then. Now it has started Facebook groups with people who are out on the road, and you have some code words for yourself when ordering transports and such. This has had the effect that the serious taxi industry is almost in an impossible situation. In some places in Sweden, there are hardly any taxi companies left, and this creates problems for municipalities and regions when you need to have school transports and medical transportation and such. After all, the companies that carry out this activity do not exist. I do not think it is a way forward that municipalities and regions should start using Facebook to get a transport done. The Government says that taxi operations should be conducted in accordance with current regulations and that it is serious that there is a criminal activity. He also says that the black economy withholds tax revenue, distorts competition and risks financing criminal activities. You can look at an investigation that the Swedish Taxi Association has produced – it highlights quite well what we are talking about. Although it is over a year old, I do not think it has changed for the better in any case, rather for the worse. According to the report, there are 150 closed black taxi groups throughout Sweden. Seven out of ten groups are growing – they thus gain increased market shares. That's 130,000 members. The tax loss is approximately SEK 300 million. That's 700 nurses a year. That's a lot of money we're talking about, and then we're talking about the tax money that the government is losing. We have not looked at the problem of criminality that revolves around this. We read from time to time about people being robbed and beaten. The Government refers to the Control Directive, but it is rather sparse when it comes to taxi traffic. There's nothing about that. It says about professional traffic, and taxi services are part of professional traffic. The Government concludes by saying that no additional directive is needed. However, I would argue that it should be an additional directive to the investigation, so as to improve the governance of illegal taxi operations. At the same time, I cannot understand why more checks are not ensured by investing more in police activities. There would then be more staff on the way to help curb this trend. If this is allowed to continue, we will soon have no serious taxi companies left. They will disappear.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-190	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your commitment! I will admit that during my years in Parliament I also worked on these issues and exercised just about illegal commercial traffic and contributed to a tightening up of legislation. It was a development for a very long time in Sweden when they liberalised everything and thought: This can be done by the market. The effect was that we had a rise in illegal commercial traffic. The police could intervene, but the prosecutors could then not have people convicted in the judicial system because the legislation was too unclear. We've got some tightening up here, and that's good. But my understanding during that period was that it also requires a completely different collaboration, so that the police are not left alone in the work against illegal commercial traffic. It now turns out that results are achieved when the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and other authorities make efforts together with the police. It is especially important now that we see how to use new social media for sharing services and car sharing services. Since they started this work, the Swedish Tax Agency has been really successful and has stopped a number from continuing their activities. That's how we should work – with resources for not least the Swedish Tax Agency but of course also for the police and other authorities. That's where we shoot a lot of resources. That is also what the investigation should look at: Is further efforts needed to promote what constitutes good professional traffic and to ensure that the possibility of undermining it through illegal activity is stopped? I think it would be extremely unfortunate if we were to come up with additional directives and delay the investigation. We need to have a development in which we can quickly come up with proposals for both a change of sanctions and better controls. I have two comments on this, one on semantics or terminology. I'm trying not to use the concept of black taxi. Seriously, I am disturbed by the fact that in the media there are sometimes reports of someone being mugged in a black taxi, as if it were a taxi business. It's not. Taxi's a taxi. The second is illegal commercial traffic. It is private individuals who go out and drive people. You do it without any identification, control or experience. I think it is important not to blacken down the name of the taxi industry by calling this black taxi, because it is actually illegal activity. The second, of course, is about how we can get the conditions for better controls. There we provide resources to the police, and the Swedish Tax Agency started its reinforced control in May 2019. That is how we work to stop what is illegal activity and organised illegal activity. So there are counter-forces here. Now the Moderates are not here, so I will not hold Thomas Morell to account, but I know that the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates now have close and close cooperation. Moderates in Parliament, for example, require us to broaden the sharing economy and make it easier to drive a taxi with their private car and be able to use digital platforms for this. Instead, this government has systematically worked on requirements for accounting centres, legislation on new categories of taxis and the requirement to have a permit requirement in a taxi ordering centre. We have systematically tightened up the legislation and will continue to do so in order to improve the development of the taxi industry. There is still a good deal to be done to get us back to a taxi business in which you have full confidence in all parts. There is a great deal more to do in order to have a more positive development in the taxi industry, and I am determined to do so with both regulation and regulation and also with increased controls.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-200	Madam President, I would like I cannot answer for how the Moderates reason, although I know roughly how they talk in these terms. However, the Government can be absolutely convinced of one thing: we will not fold an inch when it comes to the demand for order, whether we are talking about commercial traffic in the form of freight, taxis or anything else. There's got to be order! Serious entrepreneurship and those employed there must be able to operate in a healthy market. Everything else is completely unreasonable. In the Taxi Act, which is actually a bit interesting if you want to study the text of the law, it says this: a taxi service refers to traffic that is carried out professionally by a passenger car or light truck and that means that vehicles and drivers are made available to the public for the transport of persons for payment. ..................................................... What is called black taxi, and what the industry itself calls black taxis, actually puts both vehicles and drivers at the disposal of the public; that is the whole business idea. So it is a violation of this legislation. Furthermore, it says that axi traffic may be operated only by a taxi driver's licence, and as regards the rules for authorisation testing, it is quite interesting: a taxi licence may only be given to those who, in the interests of professional competence, economic conditions and good repute, are deemed appropriate to carry out the activity. ..................................................... This is the demand for what is, so to speak, a white taxi, that is to say, the one who follows the rules. These are pretty tough demands, just like any other professional traffic. Furthermore, it states that a person applying for a taxi licence must have sufficient financial resources to be able to start and run the company properly. The assessment shall take into account, in particular, liquidity and solvency. It is about SEK 100 000 for a vehicle and SEK 50 000 for each additional vehicle in financial resources. Then there's this thing with taxameter data. But what is perhaps the most important thing and what the public does not have any real control of is what is required of those who are going to drive:
i-3d81bf413b69383a-209	So we should meet the medical requirements, but when it comes to what we call black taxi, we have no idea what medical status it is on the driver. Do you hear the driver properly? Does he see? Are there other concerns? These requirements of the real taxi companies are quite costly to meet. It is clear that they cannot compete with those who are far below price. So it puts the serious companies in an impossible situation. They lose traffic missions, and in the end, businesses disappear. Then we have a huge problem in society at large. I'll come back with a question later.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the description! It's real. This is good, because when you hire a taxi you should know that it is a trained driver and a serious company that accounts for both taxes and contributions – not least employers' contributions – and wages. About ten years ago we had a vote in the Riksdag on the requirements for local knowledge to be imposed on drivers. It was a vote in Parliament with a narrow margin. I think it is important that we actually have a good knowledge of the area where we operate, and I also think it is important that we have a good chance of ensuring that the user of a taxi travels safely. That's the way it's supposed to be, 'cause you're supposed to be safe when you ride a cab. That's why black taxis are not taxis but something completely different. It is private individuals who want to make money by driving other people. They don't have education. They have no basis for charging. There is little predictability in what price you will have to pay for the trip. There are also numerous reports that during the journey there are blackmail situations or other types of crime. That is why it is important to have control activities in place. That is why it is important when the Swedish Tax Agency can now show that it has stopped two new types of sharing services that would otherwise have meant that very many people have engaged what is illegal commercial traffic. That is why this interpellation debate is also important, although it may not be followed by hundreds of thousands of people. The awareness is low in Swedish society that the type of sharing groups on Facebook, for example, where services are shared between each other, is not straightforward but can mean that the back door promotes criminal activity. There must be more to it. There, the discussion on more effective professional controls and the investigation we now have can be an important part in that we have a public debate on how to ensure that professional traffic gets better conditions. These are both tougher controls for those who do not behave, no doubt about it, but basically also better conditions. In the taxi industry, we have seen how it has become tougher conditions and how both the procurement models as they have come to work and unfair competition in the form of unfair or illegal activities have made it more difficult for the taxi industry to grow, along with new technological developments. That was the background to my being a minister of state and government in drafting the new legislation on ordering centres in order to create both more order and order and at the same time ensure that those who want to use new technologies can do so in a way that creates security for both the customer, the company and not least the employee. Basically, we do not have different views on the target: there should be order in professional traffic. Basically, it is good that we provide resources to our authorities so that they can exercise that control. I note that the debate is now about creating more order and order. When it was a moderate-led government, and it is still the party with which Thomas Morell wants to interact most, it was deregulation and sharing economy that was the starting point. I believe in order and order, not least in professional traffic, and that is what this government is working on.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-223	Madam President, I would like I do not think it is a kiosk roller if I say that I cooperate with everyone who wants order, including the Social Democrats, if one has an interest in moving forward on this issue. The question I was going to ask before, but the time was a little tight, was that I can't understand why the government isn't spending more money to get to the problem. It is a social problem that creates concerns for serious business and for employees. The state loses tax revenue due to inaction. Although there is an investigation going on, there is something that can be done here and now today and tomorrow. Inaction feeds the criminals. It should also be clear that when you are engaged in illegal professional traffic, illegal taxi traffic, there is a criminal liability under Chapter 5. The public may not be aware of this, but the person who intentionally conducts taxi services without authorisation under this law is fined or sentenced for a maximum of one year for illegal taxi services. It's pretty tough, but few cases lead to prosecution. This is because steps have not been taken to really get to those involved in criminal activity. I honestly cannot understand this. We have the same ambitions, namely to get to the unhealthy, but the Government has the power in its hand to really put the resources to get to this business and support the serious business and those who are employed there.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-226	Madam President, I would like I think I'm using the power I have as a government minister to create more order in professional traffic and tighten up controls. An important part is also to create resources to make reinforcements. Historically, we are making major investments, not least in the police and in order for the Swedish Tax Agency to be able to work more effectively with its controls. But when the Swedish Democrats had the chance to decide on economic policy, you took away 20 billion. You reduced the tax by 20 billion and reduced the possibility of providing resources to the police or to other control activities. When it comes to reality, you choose to vote with the Moderates and Christian Democrats on a budget of SEK 20 billion less for public activities with the tax cuts that you prioritise. Politics is to choose, and politics is not only to say but also to take responsibility in the Riksdag for the decisions you face. If you want more resources, you should put forward proposals and vote in favour of those proposals that involve more resources. In this case, the Swedish Democrats chose to support the movement of the Moderates and Christian Democrats in the budgetary context, and this meant that there were fewer resources and less opportunities to strengthen public control. It's not just about what you argue for, it's also about how you actually act in the Swedish parliament.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-230	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me what responsibility the government has with its film policy for what is now described as a crisis situation for the Swedish film industry and whether the government will change the direction of its film policy to help Sweden get out of this crisis situation. The crisis referred to by the interpellant and the Swedish Cinema owners' association applies to Swedish film shown in cinema. Of course, it is not positive that the visits to Swedish films at cinemas have decreased. There is reason to take this development seriously. However, it is not self-evident that fewer cinema visits to Swedish films pose a general crisis in all areas of Swedish film. Swedish films and drama series, authors and actors win prizes and attracts audiences internationally. There is no lack of new talent or innovative content. The reasons why Swedish film goes worse in cinemas are not simple, and the responsibility for reversing the development is not on an individual actor. No one can predict entirely which films will go well or not in cinemas, nor the cinema owners themselves. Both in Sweden and in other countries, there are changes in the film field that challenge what we are used to and that require discussion and analysis. The cinema owners' range of foreign-produced films has increased considerably in recent years, so competition has intensified while the cinema competes with the huge range of new viewing windows. What the ratings of Swedish films look like on the new viewing windows we do not have enough knowledge of to be able to draw any firm conclusions. The overall focus of film policy is the film policy objectives adopted by the Riksdag in 2016. These cases largely correspond to the objectives previously set for the film agreements concluded by the State and by a number of industry players. As I see it, there is therefore a great deal of support and a solid basis for film policy. The Government's responsibility is to set the financial and organisational framework and to create the best possible conditions for Swedish film. For example, better statistics are needed for Swedish films in cinemas and other platforms. Therefore, the government in the budget proposal for 2020 has announced that film will become an official statistical area and that the authority responsible for cultural analysis will be the public authority. On the industry days for film that just ended in Gothenburg during the film festival, all actors agreed that it is a joint responsibility to share experiences and analyses with each other in order to strengthen Swedish film together. That is an ambition that I welcome. Statskontoret has, on behalf of the Government, analysed the implementation of film policy, and the report from May 2019 showed, among other things, positive effects of all parts of the Film Institute's activities now being conducted based on the same parliamentary objectives and the same financing model. At the same time, the new film policy has brought about a major change, and there are plenty of challenges to deal with. The Government continuously monitors developments in the film sector and considers how different film policy issues can be evaluated.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-237	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation. I argue that Swedish film is going through a crisis, at least with regard to the commercial success and reception of the Swedish people in the cinemas. Statistics from the Swedish Cinema Association speak a clear language. Visits to Swedish films at cinemas decreased by 31 per cent from 2018 to 2019, while overall cinema visits decreased by only 3 per cent. The trend is ominous even over a longer period of time with a halving of the proportion of visits to Swedish films from 2014 to 2019. Last year, not even a single Swedish film of ten ended up at the top of those who drew the most cinema visitors. There is not a single and simple explanation why Swedish films are doing so badly in the cinemas. There I agree with Amanda Lind. Of course, success in cinemas is not the only measure of success in cinema policy. Success in other viewing windows, such as streaming services that we have been dealing with, is also important, and I welcome the government's initiative to improve statistics in the area of film. Regardless of this, success in the cinemas is an important and relevant measure, in any case if you have a view of Swedish film as something that should reach and engage many. Swedish film policy is of great importance for development in this area, so there is no doubt reason to examine the policy being pursued. I would argue that the political support for the government's film policy is weak, not strong as it sounded in the reply from Amanda Lind. When the government presented its film bill a number of years ago, politics was rejected on a number of points. A total of seven announcements were made by the Riksdag. That is the truth; the parliament wanted to see a completely different direction. Criticism has not stopped with time. The government is criticised for the way in which the film industry has been excluded from much of the state-of-the-art film policy through the industry councils that it believes do not function satisfactorily. The government is criticised for not addressing the issue of production incentives, which puts Sweden at a disadvantage in international competition and loses both culturally and economically. Last but not least: The government is also criticised for identity policy and steering to the left when it comes to how support is distributed through the Swedish Film Institute. I would like to dwell precisely on the issue of identity policy. It is a criticism that has intensified in the debate in the light of the serious statistics from cinemas. Judging by how the cinema owners' association sees it, there are problems with the Film Institute investing in the way they do in diversity. In a debate article in DN from December 2019, Peter Fornstam, chairman of the Swedish Cinema owners' association, writes the following: Then the quality of the films falls, which we believe is a partial explanation of today's situation. ..................................................... I would like to ask Minister Lind if she believes that there is something in the criticism of diversity expressed by the Swedish cinema owners' association in relation to the crisis of Swedish films in cinemas.
i-BgqKVLkKcS8QWtGR6Toa4h	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for the interpellation debate in a very topical political question about Swedish film! As I said in my answer, it is obviously not good that the visits to Swedish cinema have decreased. I still think that there is reason to nuance the picture that Swedish film would generally be in crisis. So was I. Swedish film is rewarded around the world. We have Swedish films that reach out very wide, both at the cinema and via other viewing windows. If you look at the statistics for the last ten years, you can see that the total number of cinema visits has remained stable – over ten years of funding is 16.7 million visits per year. We know that the range of foreign films that have cinema premieres has increased significantly. We know that it can affect the trend also for Swedish films in cinema. Having said that, it would of course be desirable for more people to take part in Swedish films also in cinemas. I believe that the mission that we have now given, that the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis is the responsible statistical authority, can give us a broader picture of how the Swedish audience participates in Swedish film. It is a basis for the continued discussion on how we can strengthen Swedish film in the future. Jonas Andersson quotes from a debate article. I haven't read it myself. He puts it as a focus solely on diversity, not quality. This should be a statement from the Swedish Cinema owners' association. That statement is completely incorrect, and I hope that Jonas Andersson does not base his policy solely on the views of an actor expressed in a debate article. We have a vision for Swedish film policy that reads as follows: a Swedish film should have high quality and exhibit such breadth and diversity of stories that it concerns everyone. Swedish film should be an obvious and accessible choice for the audience throughout the country and attractive internationally. ..................................................... We also have a number of objectives that Parliament has adopted and which I believe there is broad support behind. They are largely similar to the goals that existed during the time when we had film agreements. One of these objectives is this: a gender equality and diversity characterise the film area. ..................................................... We have that kind of ambition for Swedish cultural policy – equality and equality, which are also the cornerstones of our democracy, and that everyone regardless of background and gender should feel that the film industry is something for them and inspired to take their place on the screen or for that matter behind the camera. That these are general objectives, I see as rather uncontroversial and also in line with the previous objectives of the film agreements. However, this should not characterise the decisions on individual projects. Jonas Andersson knows that, I hope. That's where the arm's length shall prevail. There, quality and competence will govern. Exactly how the grants are distributed is up to the Film Institute. But there is absolutely no connection between them. How concepts such as quality should be interpreted and what quality is, it is not up to film policy or the government to decide. The film institute and the industry are having a lively discussion about this, and that should be the case. I would like to put a counter-question to Jonas Andersson. In your budget exercise, you announced that you would like to reduce film support by SEK 100 million. It is about 20% of total support for the film that state film policy provides. My question to Jonas Andersson is how it promotes the development of Swedish film.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-256	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to see a new and modernised film agreement. This is clear from our parliamentary movements. Our calculations relate to the costs of the film agreement that existed before the introduction of the whole national policy. For example, film support in the Government's 2016 budget was SEK 335 million. To go into the second part raised by Amanda Lind, I can assure her that what I say is well rooted in the policy of the Swedish Democrats. But, of course, I think it is interesting if other important players in the field land in the kind of conclusions that I am highlighting. That is indeed the way Amanda Lind says that one of the government's film policy objectives is that gender equality and diversity should characterise the film area. I think it sounds rather harmless when you just hear it that way. But of course this follows a steering and a political direction otherwise from the government, which has led to Swedish film policy being much more detailed directed to the left. For example, the Film Institute sees diversity as a qualitative aspect already in support. In order to receive support for film projects from the Film Institute, it is necessary in practice to have the right gender and skin colour of the people involved in the production. In practice, the film consultants of the Institute shall ensure that in the projects supported there is evidence of the emergence of legal values. The film institute aims to have half women and half men in front of and behind the camera. Anna Serner, CEO of the Swedish Film Institute, has even threatened to withdraw all support for male filmmakers a couple of years ago. If you apply for support, your film projects will be examined accordingly. It is simply a matter of adapting to the ideas of left-wing politics if you want any support. When the Film Institute assesses gender equality, however, people who identify themselves as something other than men or women are excluded. This makes the objectives of gender balance somewhat messy and arbitrary, to say the least. As if this were not enough, the Institute has even worked to introduce compulsory politicised courses in norm criticism for anyone who wants to receive film support. After harsh criticism, however, it changed to the fact that these training courses should only be offered instead of being compulsory. It is hardly an environment that lays a good foundation for artistic freedom and creativity. On the contrary, it is an inhibitory environment that uniforms to the left. This is bad enough in itself, but as the Swedish Cinema owners' association has pointed out, it can also impair Swedish films' chances of delivering at the cinemas. This is with the good memory of the government. That's what's so important to remember. Actually, you're responsible, Amanda Lind. In view of this, I would like to ask: why should Sweden have a politicised detailed control of film policy in the way that I have highlighted here with film consultants who will act as political commissioners, threaten to withdraw support to people who are wrong and so on? Does the Minister not see that this type of environment hampers artistic freedom and creativity, which could otherwise give Swedish film a boost in the cinemas?
i-3d81bf413b69383a-265	Madam President, I would like First of all, I must say that I find it amazing that Jonas Andersson is talking about gender equality as a left-wing issue. That there should be an entrance for you whoever you are, that you, regardless of gender and background, should feel that the film can be something for you, that ambition we have had for many terms of office– even during the time we had film agreements, which I understand is something that Jonas Andersson thinks we should return to. I see that as completely uncontroversial and as a positive pursuit in a society where your background should not play any role in your ability to take place both in front of and behind the camera. Having said that, I want to be clear there: it should not govern the artistic content. Competence and quality must be at the centre. It is the Film Institute that, in line with the principle of arm's length between politics and institutions, decides which films are supported. In addition, the Film Institute shall appoint expert advice to assist in the design of film policy support. This is an issue that the Film Institute must of course work with in ongoing and close dialogue with the industry, which they also do. Jonas Andersson raises the issue of the industry councils, which have not worked very well. It is true that the industry councils were one of the areas where Statskontoret pointed out that there were challenges. They had not been designed and landed optimally. Now I know the Film Institute has screwed this up. It is also something that we have had dialogue about during the year, and both me and the representatives from the industry that I have talked to have hopes that the industry councils will work better in the future. We have to remember that when the new film policy was formulated, the aim was to achieve stable funding and good forms of collaboration for the film forward. The old film agreements were considered to have played their part and not to function optimally. The new policy was developed after a long phase of dialogue and investigation and has now been in force for a number of years. The film policy vision is broad in that you put quality in the centre but also want the Swedish film produced to have the conditions to reach everyone, no matter who you are and where you live in Sweden – width and tip. The objectives are very similar to those of the film agreement. We have secured an arm's length distance between policy and execution, as the Film Institute acts independently in support and in the advice it appoints, various actors are involved in support decisions. The transformation of film policy was a major step and, like all the reforms, it has brought success and setbacks. It needs time to land, and now that it is a state policy, like other elements of cultural policy, we need to continuously evaluate this. We fully share that view. However, in its draft budget for 2020, to remove 100 million for the film and believe that it will be possible to draw up a new film agreement based on nothing, I am not buying. This would mean the slaughter of the film funds. It is clear that this would mean a change and a deterioration of Swedish film conditions.
i-3d81bf413b69383a-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Lind, for your answer! Of course, I welcome an improvement on the sectoral councils. In terms of how we look at film support and the levels we are at, for example this year, they are still higher than in 2016 in the government budget. I don't quite understand that criticism, to be honest. In connection with the question of how today's politicized micro-management in film policy affects Swedish film's success in cinemas, I want to raise the issue from a slightly broader perspective. Amanda Lind and other government representatives have repeatedly attacked the Swedish Democrats with accusations that we would like to restrict artistic freedom, come up with political dictates in culture and so on. Amanda Lind has even called Sölvesborg an example of horror with reference to cultural policy. In fact, Sölvesborg is, of course, a much more prosperous municipality than many of the dystopians that the Green Party has been involved in creating, where it is blown up and shot every other day while the subsidies skyrocket. It is the government's cultural policy that is an example of horror. You throw giant stones in glass houses when you attack the Swedish Democrats in this way. Just look at how the whole national cinema policy has turned out! The commercial successes and successes of the Swedish people are missing in the cinemas. Instead, left-wing ideas about equality and diversity are being hard-pressed. The message from the government is that it is important to stay within the opinion corridor if you want any contributions and come forward in Filmsverige. For this reason, I would like to ask: could it be that the government and Amanda Lind are going after Swedish-democratic cultural policy and Sölvesborg to focus away from the political detail management that takes place in cultural policy areas for which they themselves are responsible?
i-3d81bf413b69383a-280	Madam President, I would like By using the statistics on cinema visits to Swedish films for a year, Jonas Andersson tries to paint it as that the entire Swedish film and the Swedish film policy are in crisis. This is weak. Referring to the overall cultural policy objectives that are quite common – to work for gender equality and diversity on an overall level, without, of course, controlling content – is astounding. We know that we changed film policy. It took a lot of work, and now we have secured stable conditions and stable funding – a funding that the Swedish Democrats want to destroy. There is a high tone in the debate. We are talking about production discounts, which of course would be good; it is not good for Sweden that we do not have this. Was the production discount included in the Swedish Democrats' draft budget for 2020? Answer no. The stones in the glass houses are many from the Swedish Democrats' side. Sölvesborg is mentioned as an example. There you point out a particular genre in the field of art: challenging contemporary art or menstruation, which the Swedish Democratic Culture Committee chairman ralliingly and sweepingly criticizes and does not want in the public space of Sölvesborg. It is like we in film politics would point out a certain genre and say: This should not be supported. We don't do that. It is the Film Institute that decides which projects are supported. A broad dialogue between different actors in the industry is self-evident in order for the Swedish film to develop strongly. Me and the government will take our responsibility. We will continue our dialogue with the industry and continue to continuously evaluate Swedish film policy. But to, as Jonas Andersson wants, slaughter the funding for Swedish film is not a sustainable solution forward.
