i-1ea1c07654d1e596-3	Madam President, I would like Lars Thomsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to clarify that the species protection regulation and environmental testing should relate to the population perspective and not to the individual perspective. He has also asked me how I intend to act so that the biodiversity aspect at individual level does not slow down the necessary climate investments. Finally, he has asked me what I intend to do to prevent a halt to the development of wind power in Gotland, which has been designated pilot county for the energy and climate transition. Lars Thomsson deals with two very topical and important topics for the government: the protection of species and the goal that Sweden 2045 should have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. An ambitious expansion of wind power and other renewable energy sources that takes place in a sustainable way is a priority for the government. The government is therefore actively working to ensure that the expansion of renewable energy can continue to increase in the coming years, in order to reach the target of 100 percent renewable electricity generation in 2040. Conservation of biodiversity is an important public interest. The protection of species is essential for the conservation of biodiversity. The Swedish provisions on species protection are to a large extent contained in the Species Protection Regulation. The Regulation contains, among other things, provisions for peace-keeping, which prohibit the harm or interference of wild animal and plant species in various ways. King eagles and sea eagles are protected under the Species Protection Regulation and are also covered by the species protection provided by the EU Birds Directive. Swedish species protection for these eagle species must therefore be compatible with EU species protection. According to case law, the protection of species is to be part of the localisation test which is an important part of the examination of permits for various activities. Lars Thomsson refers to a decision on wind power on Gotland. I cannot comment on individual decisions, but I can see that there are judgments in Swedish case law on how to apply the peace-seeking provision applicable to, among other things, birds to activities that obviously do not aim to kill or disturb a species. This case law is thus relevant in the context of tests on the impact of wind turbines on eagles. It is clear from these judgments that a risk of impact on the conservation status of the species is required in order to trigger the prohibitions in the Preservation Order. Thus, according to this practice, the peace - calling provision is not applied as an individual protection in such situations. In this context, it should be mentioned that a Swedish court has, through a so-called reference for a preliminary ruling, put questions to the EU Court of Justice. The Swedish court has asked, among other things, whether this Swedish practice is compatible with EU law. The forthcoming decision of the EU Court of Justice may have an impact on Swedish species protection. The Government decided in May this year to set up an investigation to review the Species Protection Regulation. The investigation is based on the January agreement and is led by the special investigator Lars Tysklind. The investigator's task includes reviewing the provisions of the species protection regulation. The Government's directive to the investigator deals with both the case law that I have just explained and the Swedish court's request for a preliminary ruling. Madam President, I would like An important objective of the review of the PDS provisions is to ensure that they contribute to effective species protection and that they are designed according to the need for protection. They must also be compatible with Sweden's obligations under EU law. The Government is following the investigation work with great interest and looks forward to receiving the investigator's report, which must be submitted by 14 May 2021.
i-UnCQosmiLBoHuSqbBmwjVs	Madam President, I would like Good morning, Minister. I am basically an environmental and climate-driven politician– I have been doing this for 30 years and have had this as my main reason and my main driving force. But I'm also a practical politician. I'm a farmer and a lot of natural people. I can say that I see eagles every day on Gotland, and I am very happy about it. Why am I raising this question? Among other things, I have worked for seven years as a national wind power coordinator for three different ministers. I see how the interpretation of the Species Protection Regulation has completely failed; it has become worse and worse since 2009-2010. I will respond to what the Government says. One can take Gotland as an example that this actually does not work in practice. Gotland started with its wind power expansion in the early 1980s; we were the first in the country. At that time, there were five nesting golden eagles. There were no nesting eagles at all. Today, after 35– 40 years of expansion, we have had up to 180 wind turbines. Now it's 140, because we've made a small generational shift. While we have built up radically much wind power, the eagle tribe has grown to 120 nesting pairs. So it has gone from 5 to 120 nesting couples. Everyone on Gotland sees that we have more eagle than ever. We have about half the golden eagle and half the sea eagle; it is difficult to calculate the size accurately. Although everyone knows that we do not have any conflict in practice, new wind power is now being shut down by idiots in the judgments that have come. There is no way to get through a permit test for wind power. This becomes absurd when we see that there is so much eagle that it even becomes a problem on Gotland. It is a problem for small game – eider, for example, declines radically due to eagles. Yet we cannot build more wind power because this is said to threaten the eagle tribe. The bird researchers on Gotland agree that we have favourable conservation status locally on Gotland. What has happened during these ten years – The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency developed its guidelines and its guide for this 2009–2010 – is that the Species Protection Regulation has in practice become an individual protection regulation. That is what legal interpretation has become. It has completely lost its population focus, which is a huge problem for wind power expansion. It is not only wind power that is affected, although it was perhaps the first in the line, but this also affects forestry and other industries. This investigation is therefore extremely welcome. As I see it, there is no contradiction between climate change and biodiversity. We know that the greatest threat to biodiversity is if we do not succeed in the climate issue. The IPCC is clear that unless we can stem climate change, which certainly does not look promising, we lose 40% of all species. There must be a focus on the climate issue and on getting a healthy balance back in the legal interpretation of species protection, so that we really get a population perspective. Something else doesn't work. The application of the law has been uphill for 20 years. I very much hope that the Government will be able to provide clarification on this.
i-HQ9zSSn2q7JkbikUwiindw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for important questions! I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that we share the commitment to biodiversity, the climate and the importance of sustainable development. That is something that everyone, given the news we see daily, needs to put much more emphasis on. Then, of course, as a minister, I shall not speak about or interfere with the judgments of the courts. Here I have to repeat that the case law used by the courts when assessing planned new activities was not about protecting vulnerable species at individual level, but they have looked at whether they threaten the conservation status of a protected species. The question has now been referred to the European Court of Justice if this case-law is compatible with Sweden's obligations under EU law. We are now waiting for the opinion of the European Court of Justice on this. It will take a few more months. We look forward to it with interest. Sweden is, of course, bound by EU law but also by the Species Protection Regulation, which the Swedish Species Protection Investigation is now looking at. We also look forward to the upcoming conclusions of the Species Protection Investigation, which will not be presented until spring. I would like to emphasise that the expansion of renewable energy in Gotland, particularly wind power, is not only about its compatibility with certain birds and protected species, but there are also other well-known challenges to the expansion. This is partly about the mainland connection, and partly about the fact that Gotland has already reached the maximum capacity for how much renewable electricity can be exported to the mainland and that there are restrictions in the cable. All of this has the task of Swedish power networks to follow and to ensure that the possibility of expanding renewable electricity production is facilitated. In addition, we have a pilot project on Gotland, which the honourable Member knows very well, where one should have 100% renewable electricity and one's own electricity system. This is the County Administrative Board and Region Gotland very much involved in. There is also a roadmap developed by the Swedish Energy Agency. Then there are further obstacles to the expansion. It is about Defence interests and the veto that exists about whether you can expand, and there is also a weather radar station on Gotland that is important in this context. The expansion is not just about the conservation status of the sea eagle and the golden eagle, but about many other factors.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-30	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answers and clarifications. No, it's really not just about species protection and interpretation around eagles on Gotland in our expansion request, but it's the totally dominant fact. The fact that the power cable is not ready is another embarrassing fact on behalf of the government. I zoom out the image to apply to Sweden. I took Gotland as an example, but this is a Swedish phenomenon. That is why it is so crucially heavy. There are three things that greatly slow down the expansion of wind power today: the huge expansion of the defence, a local veto and the protection of species. All three are on the government table to deal with. We have now built an incredible amount of wind power. We have 20 terawatt hours in production and are heading for 45 terawatt hours in three years. But after that, the permits in practice are over. This means that we need to apply for a new permit, and then we need to correct the species protection regulation. It has the greatest brake effect after veto and military considerations. This isn't just about eagles. There are, of course, judgments on berguv, vortex, happy, osprey, dalripa, algal bird, night-creature, gulls, orre and tjäder in terms of species protection. There are a few judgments that have stopped billions of investments in wind power because it has been about the skier's playing grounds, while we have the right to hunt for 20,000 skiers. It is absurd that this can happen. Other wind farms have been stopped because of eagles, not because there are eagles and eagle nests in the area and not even because there are overflying eagles. It's all about the risk of a future nest and a future habitat form. After all, judicial review becomes absurd when it has no practical application. The basic problem is that no judgment takes into account conservation status and therefore does not apply peace-making rules. That's exactly what it's all about. I say that the Minister does not speak in his reply about the legal situation. The review of the Vänersborg case by the European Court of Justice is proof that there is no case law at population level. The question has therefore been passed on to the EU about how we should look at this. I'm looking forward to an assessment. We all know that we will need a lot of climate action. I really lack the courage of the government and the Green Party to prioritise climate before local impacts on biodiversity, because it does not work with artificial conflicts. Leading bird researchers in Sweden today say fairly unisontly that no species of bird in Sweden is threatened by wind power, not a single species at population level. That's why it's not ruling. Yet it slows down a great deal of our development of wind power. We also know from the studies that exist that approximately 17.5 billion birds die a year. Fifty thousand of them die from wind power. It is therefore completely marginal. Yet it is wind power that is being slowed down in this context. The question remains: does the Minister dare to re-priorise and put the climate first? That's exactly what we need right now.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-42	Madam President, I would like I would like to try to answer the question of what we should put first without me interfering as a minister in how our courts interpret the legislation in force. This is not where the Green Party should point with the whole hand. It is called ministerial government if you tell the courts how to balance their positions. According to the information I have, it is the case-law in cases where individual permits are tested, for example for new wind power, not to make an interpretation from an individual perspective but to look at the conservation status of an entire protected species. I have no reason to question the fact that this is the case. The Land and Environment Court in Vänersborg has made a request for a so-called preliminary ruling on the question before the Court of Justice of the European Union if this practice is compatible with EU law. We need to follow this closely. We have also added the Species Protection Investigation to ensure that the Preservation Rules contribute to effective, well-functioning and legally secure species protection and that they are compatible with Sweden's EU legal obligations. I agree to a large extent with the fact that the climate issue is the absolute question of destiny of our time. In this context, one should be aware that so-called natural-based solutions are also an important way out of the climate crisis, that is to say that we are recreating wetlands, protecting forests and ensuring that coastal ecosystems have the ability to bind carbon dioxide – simply because we have destroyed so much of nature's natural capacity to retain carbon dioxide. It is not digital in any way that on the one hand we have renewable energy and on the other hand we have biodiversity, but we know that natural ecosystems are perhaps the absolute best way for us to have a life insurance policy where nature is able to be resilient to all human influences. I am also happy that I almost daily see sea eagles, also in the Stockholm archipelago. At the same time, both sea eagles and king eagles are described as closely vulnerable in Artdatabanken and the national redlist. We must therefore be careful with these species. They have recovered, but we are that they are vulnerable and that they may return to a worse classification. Having said that, however, I am not controlling the outcome of the courts, but the courts must work on the basis of the grounds they do. Otherwise, it is important that we have a sustainable electricity system. What is happening on Gotland is interesting, and it is about making it work so that all the major industries there, such as Cementa, can get the power they need.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-50	Madam President, I would like Of course, a politician and a minister should not interfere in individual judgments. However, we must keep an eye on where practice goes. For the last ten years, practice has been moving into the ditch, and we must act. This is what it is about, and it is not ministerial government. We must be prepared to change laws that do not work, and that is exactly what we are seeing. If we ask the industry representatives, they will give the exact picture I have given: that this does not hold. There is an interpretation at the individual level, and that creates problems. It's a weird conflict. I agree fundamentally with the Government, which says that we should have both climate action and biodiversity. Co-existence is doing great. But not with this interpretation of the law. That is exactly why I am raising this issue. Here, tiny aspects of biodiversity go before huge climate efforts and slow them down. That's absurd. I listen a lot to Johan Rockström, and I hear what he says as a leading researcher. We need to halve emissions in ten years and then halve every ten years thereafter. Then we can't do this kind of nature conservation detail that slows down the big climate efforts. But that's exactly what we're doing right now. I hope that the Green Party can step up and become an environmental party and not a nature conservation party. With our short window of ten years to save the climate, we must dare to give priority to this, and then we must give priority to other things. This path is not holding, and what has been delivered in the meantime with environmental partners is not enough to meet the climate challenge.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-54	Madam President, I would like It was the Green Party that pushed through the energy agreement's target of 100 percent renewable electricity by 2040. It's been a vision we've had for a long time. I regret that it was parties in the Swedish Parliament that quickly dropped out of the agreement, but thanks to this agreement we have seen an explosive expansion of wind power in Sweden for the last four years. The Green Party has in no way been a brake block in this, quite the contrary. Europe's largest wind farm will now be established in northern Sweden thanks to the goal we have set. I just hope that other parties will not slow this down because they have a strange preference for nuclear power, which is much more expensive and where the taxpayer ultimately has to pay the bill. The expansion is taking place at a much higher rate than could have been expected six years ago. But, of course, we also need to be careful about the protection of our nature. The UN Panel on Biological Diversity points out that we will lose 1 million species in the coming decades if we do not protect ecosystems and ensure that there are conditions for them to survive. The honourable Member himself said that the municipal veto and defence are the main obstacles to the expansion of wind power. It is therefore a little unfair to designate species protection as the single largest factor, because that is not the case. We are actively working to meet the target of 100 percent renewable by 2040, and I see all the conditions for our success, including through the expansion of offshore wind power. What is happening on Gotland is interesting, and I hope to be a good solution even without cable.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-60	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I am doing and the government intends to do to make it easier for the Swedish elite football to play matches in front of the audience as soon as possible and to prevent Swedish football clubs from being forced into bankruptcy as a result of the restrictions imposed by the coronapandemin. I would like to begin by thanking the interpeller for lifting the so-called important questions. From the date of the entry into force of the regulation prohibiting public gatherings and public events, I have had an intensive and constructive dialogue with representatives of the sports movement and have listened to the impact of the pandemic and the restrictions imposed on sport. The government is aware that many have been severely affected by the ban and that it is perceived as blunt. Since it is important that the restrictions do not unduly affect activities that can be carried out in an infectious manner, a memorandum with suggestions for relief has been developed within the Government Office. The memorandum was sent out for referral, and the period of referral expired on 27 August. The Government will take into account the views expressed during the referral and return to the matter as soon as possible. The government will continue to monitor and analyse the consequences of the spread of the new coronavirus, not least for culture, sport and other sectors that usually gather many people. When it comes to combating bankruptcies in Swedish sports, I am proud that, in addition to support in the form of, for example, the possibility of short-term lay-off and conversion aid to companies this spring, we could add the sports grant of SEK 500 million and that we have announced an additional SEK 1 billion in special crisis support for sport for 2020. With these extraordinary levels of support and other government support for businesses and jobs, I expect that sports associations will be able to take the necessary steps to survive the crisis.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-67	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. This issue affects many and disturbs many. This question cuts right into what we usually call the Swedish organised association activity. We should be clear that Swedish football clubs are member-controlled associations. There are tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of people who are members of these associations and are behind them. We therefore discuss Swedish association activities and the life of Swedish associations. Madam President, I would like When the coronapndemine started seriously in March, it got hold of it in Sweden and Europe. In practice, all sporting activities ended when the restrictions imposed by each country came into force. In June, the elite football could finally start up, but then without an audience. For the really large audience sports, whose economic basis is exposure to audiences on the ground and on television, the current situation is already scarce. The economy of many sports clubs has been clearly adversely affected under the coronapndemin. Ekot's survey shows that the number of elite sports clubs registered with Kronofogden has increased significantly in the first half of the year. It has mapped out how many out of 140 elite sports clubs from the largest public sports available in Kronofogden's register, and the results showed that more than half of the clubs have or have had a case in the past five years. And more will be if nothing is done or changed. In the near future, continuing to play without an audience will put even more strain on already financially-pressed associations, many of which were under strain even before the pandemic restrictions were activated. The logic is very simple: No audience, no revenue. At the same time, we see that several countries in Europe have begun to open up to matches with audiences, where special arrangements are made to avoid the spread of infection. It is said that the need is the mother of inventions, so the creativity to solve this precarious situation should also be important for the government. My questions to the Government and the Minister were what the government intends to do to make it easier for the Swedish elite football to play games in front of the audience as soon as possible and how to prevent football clubs from being forced into bankruptcy as a result of the restrictions of the coronapndemin. It is good that there is money for the sports movement, but unfortunately: To add the sports grant 500 million SEK sounds a lot, but it is not far enough spread over many sports at several levels across the country. The audience revenue of the top seven clubs in 2019 alone was SEK 300 million – in seven clubs. And there are hundreds of elite clubs around the country in addition. What is needed now is not really money to compensate, but it is the opportunity to carry out their activities in a safe, organised, controlled and functioning way so that one can return to what is at the heart of sport: to perform in front of the public.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-78	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the Member of Parliament for raising this issue here in the Swedish Parliament. It is an issue that has been discussed intensively during the summer and of course also from the beginning of the pandemic – how hard the sports movement has been hit by the corona, not least the large public sports. I would like to agree with what Mr Rothenberg says about the value of Swedish elite sports. It is part of our popular movement, and we should be proud that this close connection exists. We should also remember that an elite team in one place, whether it is football or something else, also serves as a source of inspiration and as part of the municipal and regional infrastructure, including for outdoor sport. I'll start with the economy. Now it has been a while since the response to the interpellation was written, and there has been one thing after that, namely that it has now been confirmed that we in the government and the budgetary partners agree to spend another 1 billion on sport in support. This will be presented in an additional amending budget to Parliament, and it means a total of 11⁄2 billion in extra crisis support for sport. It should be borne in mind that it is almost a doubling of the ordinary grant that the government gives to the sports movement in the form of financial support. Here I would just like to say briefly that I think that the Swedish Sports Federation has done a huge job with the distribution of the first half billion and the balance of how this money will come to those who really need it, both large and small. We have said from the government that the money must be able to benefit both the elite and the breadth. When it comes to the distribution of the additional billion, it will be important to continue to look at which sports have been affected during the summer and which will be affected in the future by the coronapdemine in the autumn. It will continue to influence, regardless of the government and if the contamination situation allows for opening up to more audiences. That is why it was important for me and the government now to go out early and announce that there will be another 1 billion. This has been well received by the sports movement, I would say, and there we shall continue to have a discussion with the National Sports Federation about the money. I think we should stick to the fact that it should be the peoples' movements themselves that distribute the funds but that there should be overall principles. As far as the audience is concerned, there is a process now. It is very important for me as Minister for Sport that this process is now under way so that we can see what exceptions we can make and which are legally sustainable in terms of the law of order, because it is associated with criminal law. We have sent out the proposal for changes to the regulation for referral, and we have received many referrals. The Public Health Agency has come up with a referral which we in the government have said we will of course consider because it is they who have to determine the state of the infection and the consequences for the spread of the infection. Views have also been received from the Police Authority, which has a responsibility to supervise, but also from the entire broad sports movement. I am of course aware that for many associations raising the audience limit to, say, 500 people, with some distance and so on, would mean a great deal. You can basically go back to a situation that may not be normal but would mean a lot. But for the largest clubs in football and ice hockey, of course, more is needed. Here I now see that the government will continue to work on the referral points. We will come back with a message. But combined with the fact that we are going to take steps to bring relief to the audience issue and that we are shooting at powerful support funds, we are going to do what we can to support the sports movement during this period. It will take more. The municipalities need to see what they can do, and the sports movement itself of course. This is an important situation which I take very seriously.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-87	Madam President, I would like Money to compensate is enough, but it is not enough. We can't do that. The Swedish economy is collapsing. That we should continue to borrow hundreds of billions of dollars through the National Debt Office is untenable. We need to find other solutions. But enough said about money and compensation. What Sweden's football associations and other elite football clubs need is to gain control of their own revenues and the opportunity to charge spectators who come to watch sports, which also makes it attractive for sponsors to deposit money into the associations. It is not only the loss of audience that the associations are now suffering, but it is also a reduction in sponsorship income because there is no exposure to audiences. This plays a huge role. That is why it is extremely important that we can get to a situation where, under controlled, organised forms, people can be allowed to enter the arenas as soon as possible. According to Håkan Sjöstrand, who is the Secretary General of the Swedish Football Association, football is ready to assume its responsibilities and welcome the audience back to the extent possible in a vector-proof way. The roof, according to the association, needs to be set with regard to the conditions for each sports facility. 500 spectators at Rambergsvallen are not the same as 500 spectators at Stockholm Kompisvallen, which is also called Friends Arena. There's a huge difference in the size of the arenas. Generally permission for 500 spectators is no better than what the limit for 50 spectators was. Arrangement costs are higher than revenues, and annual cards are already paid. Madam President, I would like A Max of 500 people in outdoor arenas that take up to 50,000 means 1 person in every 100 seats. It is no problem for public transport to get in as many people as possible. There are no shutdowns, and the Public Health Authority has repeatedly stated that public transport has not been the source of any outbreak of infection. The malls are mucked daily, and Ullared is the country's ongoing audience success. Tens of thousands of people are crowded in shops, buses and department stores. One third of the stadium's capacity is more reasonable. This means that even the Swedish clubs with the least audience capacity can bring in at least 2 000 spectators. That would make a difference. In the larger arenas, such as Friends and Ullevi, it would mean a possible audience of 13 000 – 17 000 spectators. The ability to make organized inputs and emissions and to share audiences in an infectious way becomes manageable. The Minister, like me, as well as the President and like everyone, knows that football audiences are a very nice and moderate audience who, of course, follow the infection recommendations when they are given. It is an important prerequisite for continuing to go and watch football and follow their teams. But this is urgent. It is member-controlled associations that go on their knees, and endurance is limited. I would therefore like to call on the Minister now to take independent decisions that do not mean that the government is acting as a sub-department of the Public Health Agency. Collect these knowledge and experiences. But also realize the seriousness. It's urgent now. In order not to create major problems in the future, we need to open up the entrance gaps in the Swedish arenas.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-95	Madam President, I would like I shall interpret Mr Rothenberg in a positive way. Comments and comparisons with Mrs Ullared, congestion on buses and the like, I think we can stay too good for. It is clear that the Member of Parliament knows that different legislations meet these different activities. There shouldn't be crowding anywhere. There are recommendations from the Swedish Public Health Agency that all actors and all individuals in our society should follow. However, the process of creating exceptions to the Order Act aims to ensure that arrangements can be made in a safe manner. I know that cultural, sports and civil society organisers, as the honourable Member is now highlighting, can arrange things wisely and well. They are good at arranging and are used to handling security issues. Based on the legislation that Sweden has, the government takes a serious view of what we can do to ensure demands for infectious safety. With regard to the comment about acting as a sub-department of the Public Health Agency, it is nevertheless the case, Mr Rothenberg, that we are in a pandemic and that it is clear that the opinion of our public health authority must also weigh heavily in these parts. When we look at the referrals now, both the Public Health Agency and others point out that it is clear that what also happens outside the arenas needs to be taken into account. The government will now carefully look at the views that have come in and will come back quickly with proposals. The ambition is that there will be a relief from 1 October. We must also realise that we will be living with this pandemic for a long time to come, and it is clear that we need to take further steps. I know that the sports movement around the country longs to get to a situation where you can start receiving more audiences again and will thus also be able to prepare to receive additional audiences if the infection allows and if we find solutions that work legally linked to criminal liability in the Order Act. Here we should also be aware that the laws and conditions are different in different countries. The infection has been different. My clear ambition as Minister for Sport is to be able to create a clear relief for the sports movement so that you can receive more audience again, both for the joy that it brings to all fans who can come to the matches and for the joy of the players. This applies regardless of the sport involved. There is, of course, also an economic aspect to this. But I would also like to stress that this money is not unimportant. This 500 million crowns that we joined in the spring saved many clubs around the country and created hope and faith in the future. So does this additional billion. This means both the Swedish Sports Federation and everyone I have spoken to in the country. The Government has also chosen to extend the conversion aid. We have short-term leave available as an opportunity and also other economic reliefs. The big clubs are often in corporate form. They are also an important part of our business community. One must therefore also look at other nutritional support provided by the government. All of this together, of course, aims to protect our sports movement with both the elite teams and the broad peoples' movement – outdoor sports, children and young people.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-108	Madam President, I would like The money that comes is good. I haven't said anything else. We applaud them. But they do not solve this problem in the long term. They'll possibly make sure the fire doesn't spread any further. But they don't put out fires. Although the legislation differs in different areas, it is in fact relevant to compare crowds and crowds. Is a crowd in a larger shopping mall more contagious than a crowd sitting in their places with a initially determined distance? I think we should take a further look at this. There are countries that have begun to open up to audiences. Denmark has done so. Russian football has restarted. There you have 10% of the arena's capacity as the norm. The audience is now welcome at Bundesliga matches in Germany, a country where the infection has been worse than in Sweden. In Leipzig, for example, 8 500 people will be admitted. Hertha Berlin will have 5,000 spectators at the opening of the Olympic Stadium. Madam President, I would like The university test shows that the government can make independent decisions and actually adapt the recommendations made by the Public Health Agency. On behalf of football, Swedish sport and all sports lovers, I wish the government to do so as soon as possible. See the capacity of the arenas, and see the conditions for the arenas to handle crowds! Do it soon! The referral time is over. But this is about decisions whose speed can affect a large part of the Swedish sports movement's future.
i-1ea1c07654d1e596-112	Madam President, I would like As I said, we will come back as soon as possible. Then it is important that this work continues in close dialogue with the sports movement, with culture, with civil society and with all those affected in different ways by the consequences of the Order Act. I would also like to say that what the government announced a few weeks ago is that we also want to review the entire legislation in this area. It is easy to stand in the speaker's chair and say that it is just to do something. However, this is legislation linked to criminal law, and it imposes specific requirements. This makes it more difficult to act solely on the basis of infection safety, because it was not the original purpose of the Order Act. However, my colleague Mikael Damberg has announced that we need to review the entire legislation in this area. We will do this in parallel with taking steps that we are now working on in order to make exceptions. It will bring clear relief. I follow with interest what happens in other countries. I, like Hans Rothenberg and certainly many others, long for the day when we get to go to games again and sit with many in the audience. What is to be remembered is that some of these countries have set up models that I am not entirely sure would work here or that would be appreciated by our sports movement. For example, Denmark has set up a special regime for elite football. I am not sure that such an exception would be acceptable to our broad sports and association movement. Basically, we need to see that this is about the public health authority's assessment of the infection situation. It is a question of having other authorities who must also have the resources to deal with this. But that said, the sports movement can take responsibility. The sports movement is good at arranging. And I look forward to us being able to take clearer steps forward to enable more audiences. I would like to thank you for this debate and for the interest in the sports movement shown by the interpeller. It is important that we talk here in Parliament about sports issues.
