i-000e628e75992caa-0	Madam President, I would like Finland has a special position in Sweden's international relations both through the common history of our countries and through our safety policy choices. The Swedish-Finnish operational defence cooperation, which is the theme of today's debate, aims to strengthen national defence and increase defence capabilities in order to be able to act together. This could include dealing with various forms of violations on each other's territory. The law on operational defence cooperation proposed by the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy in its report further deepens this cooperation. Technical, administrative and legal thresholds against defence cooperation are being flattened and new opportunities opened up. Madam President, I would like The need for deeper Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation is driven mainly by the deteriorating security developments in the Baltic Sea region. Responsibility for this development rests heavily on Russia. There are at least three factors in Russian action that give cause for concern. Firstly, Russia has repeatedly shown that it has a low threshold for military use of force. European borders have been redesigned both in Ukraine and Georgia, and in other countries the borderland between total peace and total war is operating with different types of hybrid threats. Secondly, Russia has more than doubled its defence spending and has greatly strengthened its armed forces over the last decade. The western military district, located in the immediate vicinity of Sweden and Finland, is a top priority for the Russian Armed Forces. Thirdly, Madam President, we see an aggressive Russian exercise pattern in our own neighbourhood. The Russian exercise Ocean Shield on the Baltic Sea and the subsequent Swedish alert rise last week are symptoms that we have a new security policy normal image to handle in our own neighbourhood. Russian military violence, force building and aggressive exercise patterns are realities that we in Sweden must relate to in our security and defence policy choices. Madam President, I would like From the Moderates' side, we welcome enhanced defence cooperation with Finland. This work began partly during the 2014 Alliance Government by analysing the development of an action plan for cooperation. In order for Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation to play its full role and contribute to security, we believe that cooperation should be based on three principles: Madam President, I would like I will present these principles a little closer. Firstly, for Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation to be strong, credible and realistic, it must also be linked with our other defence cooperation in the Nordic countries, within the EU and, not least, with NATO and the US. The transatlantic link and NATO are crucial for the security and stability of our own neighbourhood. We Moderates would therefore have preferred to see a broader legislation in which the regulatory framework for operational support between Sweden and Finland had been generalised in order to also target more countries and international organisations – host country support 2.0, in line with the solidarity policy that we have endorsed in this House. Of particular importance, we believe, is to deepen defence policy cooperation with the United Kingdom, Denmark, Norway and the United States. It was precisely this model of general legislation rather than a Swedish-Finnish law that was behind the position of the Swedish Defence Committee in its report Värnkraft. There they talked about general legislation, not a Swedish-Finnish law. I would also like to remind you that Finland also has general legislation. After all, a decision was taken on 1 July 2017, based entirely on the EU's declaration of solidarity and not directed at any specific individual country. Secondly, enhanced defence cooperation with Finland should also lead to deeper security policy coordination between countries. When we increase the level of cooperation in defence policy, we simply need to keep up with cooperation in security policy. It's two sides of the same coin. Although Sweden and Finland share many points of departure in international security policy, there are important differences, for example in relation to Russia, in view of how far EU defence cooperation should be developed and in their relationship with NATO. The clearest dividing line between Swedish and Finnish security policy is the so-called NATO option that Finland has in order to maintain its freedom of action in security policy to seek membership of the NATO Defence Alliance if you wish. Instead, the Swedish Government has chosen to completely dismiss the idea of introducing a NATO option into the Swedish security policy line. Our view is that Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation is good for our security and for Finnish security but does not replace the need for Swedish NATO membership. Should we take a decision on a Swedish NATO membership, however, it would have to be done in close dialogue and preferably together with Finland. But we also believe that Sweden should be able to include a NATO option in its security policy line in order to better harmonise our relationship with NATO with Finland, now that we are entering into enhanced defence policy cooperation. Thirdly and finally, Madam President, the basis for Sweden's credibility in international defence cooperation can only be laid by developing a stronger national defence capability. To be an attractive partner in such situations, it is simply important to be able to demonstrate a strong military capability on a national basis. Sweden is still the country in northern Europe that spends the least share of its economy on defence. Finland, on the other hand, Madam President, will next year spend over 2% of GDP on defence as a result of the procurement of the next generation of fighter aircraft, the so-called HX project. Up to now, it has mainly been the blue combat forces that have focused on Swedish-Finnish cooperation, mainly the Navy and the Air Force. That is why it is, of course, important for the forthcoming defence decision that the Navy be informed, for example, of new surface combat vessels and corvettes. However, the defence committee has also indicated that we should be able to support Finland with up to a brigade of the ground forces. That is a position that is binding, Madam President. Ultimately, this is about autumn's defence decisions having to be so strong and feasible that it will be a clear global signal, both to our international partners and to other countries, about our willingness and ability to contribute to security and stability in Sweden's neighbourhood. The defence committee's proposals must therefore be implemented and financed in full in the autumn's defence decisions. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the reservation and refer to the special opinion of Mr M. L. C. and Mr KD.
i-000e628e75992caa-17	Madam President, I would like We are faced with a historic decision in this House today. We move from defence cooperation to operational defence cooperation. It describes the difference between all the collaborations we have and what we are now going to create a legal basis for together with Finland. It is important, and it describes what we should do also when we cooperate with our other defence friends: make those collaborations operational. To be able to act operationally and face an armed attack and prevent violations is, of course, something that aims to deter and build security in solidarity – in peace and in war. The government is authorised with today's decision to provide or receive operational military support. At the request of Finland, Swedish forces – women, men and they – must be deployed to prevent violations of Finnish territory, and Sweden can similarly request the support of Finnish forces on our Swedish territory, provided that the country is not at war or that an armed conflict prevails, because then it is the Riksdag that still has to make decisions. There are no mutual defence obligations here. It is, of course, a memento. But we are taking a step forward in operational work. It is stated in the government bill that our countries have similar security policy starting points. As we have heard before, from Pål Jonson, it is true to some extent but not entirely. Finland's security policy differs in that it has an explicit NATO option. We heard how leading representatives of Finland tried to threaten Russia using that option to mark: We have a border. Sweden has not. We don't have that option. As far as we are concerned, Madam President, this is a major shortcoming. When we make a decision here in Sweden and say that we do not ever want to go that way and cannot imagine a NATO option, the indirect value of the Finnish option devaluations. Because if they cooperate with us and can imagine a NATO option and Sweden cannot, we have reduced the value of their NATO option. It's a sad part of this decision. It would have been good if it had also included a stated goal from the Swedish side, a pronounced NATO option in the Swedish security policy. As indicated in previous contributions, Finland's legislation is not specific but general. There is also something different. Madam President, I would like The security policy position of the Center Party is not neutrality, nor is it freedom of alliance. We have debated this in other contexts, so I will not delve into this and now. But Finland's cooperation shows that more than joint exercises are needed. Operational cooperation and planning are needed. In our part of the world, it's not possible to just practice, even if it's never so important, and that's good what's happening. The cooperation agreements that have been created are good. But if they only involve cooperation, something is missing. It shows this decision that we are going to make today. Moving from cooperation to operational defence cooperation makes a difference. It aims to act as a deterrent and strengthen our defence capabilities, but also to signal clearly that others should stay away. When we talk about other people, we all know that Russia is what we mean. It is Russia that is acting and making our region, the Baltic Sea region, a region that is clearly facing challenges. We see it not least now with the actions in Belarus. As far as the Center Party is concerned, apart from the decision we are about to take today, we want to open up so that operational cooperation includes more countries in order to meet the threat picture we have and the actual needs we have of operational military cooperation and, in fact, also make the solidarity policy clearer to everyone. Sweden should include all EU and NATO countries, and of course, Madam President, although I do not engage in the in-depth discussion here and now, we want to see a Swedish NATO membership, and we want to achieve it in close cooperation with Finland. We do not see that the decision we have to make here today in any way complicates or has any indirect or direct impact on this. With this, I would like to support the reservation in paragraph 6. I would also like to refer to the special opinion, and I would also like to express my support for the proposal contained in the report.
i-FxF6iSe3jt8uhsbHnbV2yq	Madam President, I would like Allow me to begin by expressing my support for the reservation and also referring to the joint special opinion of Mr M. C. KD. and Mr L. When we debate today the Government's proposal for increased military cooperation between Sweden and Finland, it is not just any debate. The proposal to be considered by the Riksdag means that another nation's military forces are allowed to operate in our country and that Swedish conscripts can be deployed to prevent violations of another country's territory. The government has long argued for further-developed cooperation with other democracies in the field of defence. The Christian Democrats welcome this. We see how collaboration in itself contributes to increased understanding and deepened relations between countries and peoples. We see how security is built together, how military cooperation increases our own capabilities and raises the threshold for a possible attacker. Increased military cooperation between Sweden and Finland is important and right in substance. Madam President, I would like Many have warned in recent years that insecurity in our neighbourhood and the risk of military attack are increasing. The Minister of Defence has stated that Russia's decision to enter Georgia and Ukraine in violation of international law has fundamentally changed the conditions of security policy. At the DN Debate on 29 July, Peter Hultqvist makes clear the sharp situation somewhere in the Baltic Sea region affects all the countries in the region. Sweden is not and has never been a freely floating satellite in a special universe of neutrality or alliance freedom. Therefore, in so far as it is not already done, it is high time to settle up with those performances. It is high time to see Sweden's geopolitical and security policy situation as it really is and take on board the threats that do not consist of diffuse shadows and a few lines on a paper but are based on facts. If a country is hit in our neighbourhood, Sweden will also be affected. Today we welcome the increased and close defence cooperation with Finland. Similarly, we welcome other defence cooperations such as those with the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Nordefco, to name a few. The Minister of Defence has been a driving force in this, and for that he deserves recognition. Sweden is stronger today than we did before the cooperation agreements came into place. Sweden is even stronger if the legislation that we are debating today becomes general, as the previous speaker has mentioned, so that more countries, alongside Finland, can be linked to operational military cooperation with Sweden. This is the design of the corresponding legislation in Finland. It provides increased security and room for manoeuvre there, and this should also be the case here. At the same time, it is important to be clear. None of the agreements that Sweden currently has in the field of defence contain any promises of external assistance. None of the agreements that have been concluded, nor the agreement we are discussing today with Finland, contain any defence guarantees. We are talking in the debate about increased concern and uncertainty in Sweden's neighbourhood. We see Russia developing in a more authoritarian direction. We hear the Minister of Defence say that a sharp situation somewhere in the Baltic Sea region affects all the countries in the region. But we stand as a nation without insurance. If there's a fire, we don't know if the fire department's coming. Madam President, I would like Swedish foreign and security policy requires a modern, effective and strong Swedish defence force. When we can assert with weight and credibility that our country can always be defended and that we are never alone, the doubts about Sweden's ability are removed. Clarity increases, and the risk of attack decreases. This can be achieved through full Swedish membership of NATO. The only way to integrate into security cooperation with treaty defence guarantees and full operational planning is NATO membership. With the bilateral cooperation agreements, the government has found a way. But you don't make it all the way; you don't reach the goal. So, in conclusion, it is high time now, Peter Hultqvist, to move forward and lead Sweden into the defence alliance and defence cooperation of Western democracies, where Sweden has long belonged.
i-000e628e75992caa-37	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by acknowledging to the President, the Assembly and those who are watching that, when this matter has been dealt with, I have been biased. Because, Madam President, I love Finland. I love the Karelian pirogs – you know them with a thin shell of rye bread, hot rice porridge and some salty egg butter that melts. I love how Marimekko can liven up the most boring Ikea furniture, and I love that you can choose Valio if you don't want Chinese-owned oat milk in your coffee. And of course I love that Finland has gone ahead and has a republic. But, Madam President, above all, I love Finland because we share values. Not only do we share ingenuity and much of the culinary, but we also share values. We share a common view of democracy and responsibility for peace, freedom and stability not only in our own countries but throughout the world. We share a common view on gender equality and climate change. For these reasons, what the Finnish Armed Forces should defend in their foundation is the same as what the Swedish Armed Forces should defend, i.e. peace, freedom and democratic values. It is clear that for these reasons it is natural not only to welcome but to sing praises for deeper cooperation, in which we clear away bad obstacles that have previously put sticks in the wheels of deeper operational cooperation. It is a natural way to go, because we are in many ways alike. Finland's cause is ours, and ours is actually Finland's, precisely because we share the same fundamental view of our place in the world and the values that govern our time. We have a great deal of common history, but we also have a very much common present and probably a common future. To give an example, which has been highlighted here in the speaker's previous speech: when Putin's increasingly aggressive Russia begins to rumble in the Baltic Sea or scare up and, at worst, attack countries not only here but around Europe, these are, of course, threats that we have in common, in our present and, unfortunately, probably also in our future. We have common security policy challenges. I and the Liberals are pleased that we have a deeper defence cooperation with Finland. But it is also the case that these common defence policy challenges are not just common to us and Finland. They are also common to other countries in the world – most of Europe, for example. We have seen Russia's actions in Georgia and Ukraine. This should, in fact, encourage greater cooperation with more countries than just Finland. For this reason, we have a joint reservation with Mr M, Mr KD and Mr C, which I am happy to highlight in the debate, and a specific opinion. If you have the view that those with whom you share values and security policy challenges are those with whom you will build cooperation, you should also understand that this cooperation cannot stay with Finland. It must be deepened with others who also share these building blocks. For this reason, such legislation should be made general, as Finland has done. We should also have a NATO option, as Finland has. Of course, we also want us to join NATO, but having a NATO option is a tool on the way to membership. This is how we can build security, stability and peace – not only here, in Finland or around the Baltic Sea, but in most of our neighbourhood. Madam President, I would like Finland, as we have already discussed in this House today, has used its NATO option. Finland, as I have said in my speech, has the same or at least a very similar view of responsibility for peace and freedom in the world. For these reasons, I am no stranger to the fact that Finland, like Sweden, will in future want and need to approach NATO further. It is natural, then, that we have a policy similar to Finland's, with NATO option, and that we are pushing for that option to become a reality. That is how we build peace throughout Europe. Madam President, I would like When the crisis comes, I am happy if we can drink Finlandia and perhaps a little Absolute and do not have to toast in Russian vodka after the crisis has passed. Madam President, I would like It is natural that we have a deeper cooperation with Finland than we have had before, because we are in many ways the same. We are in many ways a consequence of the same history, and we have in many ways a common present and future.
i-000e628e75992caa-47	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell said in his speech that Finland's cause is ours. That's exactly right. That is exactly what I intend to begin my speech with. It was Olof Lagercrantz and Karl Gustaf Hildebrand's title on the book they published in 1939, which was the start of a nationwide work in Sweden to support Finland. Swedes collected money and clothing, we sent medical personnel and 8,000 soldiers from the Swedish side travelled to Finland as volunteers to participate in the war against Russia. What is not so well known in Sweden are the large quantities of military equipment that Sweden also collected for Finland. I will admit that it was only a few years ago at a meeting in Helsinki that I myself realised how much material Sweden had contributed to Finland during these years. I even thought it sounded a bit incredible, because the picture is that Sweden was not well prepared at the beginning of the Second World War. There were impressive numbers that Sweden sent to Finland, and my feeling was: Did we even have that much? Obviously we did, and we also had supplies left after that. The support in 1939 was formed in the face of an acute situation that existed at the time. Today, Madam President, we in Parliament are gradually making a strategic decision to have a structure in which Sweden and Finland work together in order to be well prepared and able to provide each other with operational military support. So we should be better prepared if necessary in the future. Sweden and Finland have a special position in the security policy mosaic in our part of the world – a part of the world where tensions have unfortunately increased over the last ten years. Both Sweden and Finland are militaryly non-aligned but work closely with NATO. It is a system that I, as a Social Democrat, believe is good for our two countries and also good for the security of the whole region where we are. The cooperation between Sweden and Finland, which is decided by Parliament today, strengthens our countries' ability to act together. It strengthens the security of our countries. With the major financial contributions that the Swedish defence will receive in the coming years, the Swedish defence will be stronger, something that is necessary because there is uncertainty and tensions in our neighbourhood have increased. Madam President, I would like Finland's cause remains ours. Sweden's thing is Finland. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved.
i-000e628e75992caa-54	Madam President, I would like We think that what the government has presented here is a good basis. It also deserves to be mentioned that the role of the Minister of Defence in this work is good. You do a lot of good work, Peter Hultqvist. That's it. I have said this before in this House. We have different views on some things, such as the financial contributions. But the basis you have presented is good. The budget is another issue to which we will have to return. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats have been the only party that has previously advocated a defence alliance with Finland. We still do. Sweden and Finland face many of the same security policy challenges. We call it a brother people, as someone has said here. We have much the same values. We have a long history together, and we want to pursue the line of a defence alliance with Finland. We believe that this is a step in this direction as we go into the operational part, i.e. the operational support. It differs from the exercises that I have experienced, where we practiced platoons and companies in different situations and different battles. Let's raise it to a completely different level. That is a good step towards what we will continue to propose, namely a defence alliance. Joar Forssell spoke of building cooperation with others who have the same values, and so he mentioned NATO. Joar Forssell therefore believes that Mr Erdo中an's Turkey has the same values as we do. You have to draw that conclusion. I'm trying to work with Erdo. I'm trying to work with Erdo. Now this is another issue, but I would still like to comment on it. Then Finland does not share all the values that Sweden has. They have a completely different view of mass immigration and so on, so it is directly wrong to claim that they have equal values in all respects. But that debate does not belong here either. What, then, is the difference between our opinion and the government's proposal? There's a few things. We want you to go further. We want the Riksdag to authorise the Government, provided that it promotes Sweden's security and defence, to also take decisions on Swedish support with armed forces to assist Finland also to face an armed attack. Let's go one more step there. It is written that you want to avoid going to war and so on, but I think we see it a little differently. It could increase our security and our ability to defend ourselves if we did not have to wait. Shouldn't we send forces if Finland is at war? Should Finland be alone then? If we enter Finland, we are also at war, but is that not the case if we move forward with cooperation and a union? Now we have a unit. We fight together, whether one country is at war or not. There, our view differs from the text of the report, and this is reflected in the motion we made on this subject. The committee then says that it should have the approval of the government and that the matter should then be submitted to the Riksdag. But there is no mention of the war delegation anywhere in the documents. In any case, we should have prepared to call in the war delegation quickly. Perhaps the Secretary of Defense can mention something about that later. You don't talk about this here. The war delegation consists of the President and 50 Members. It's got to come in somewhere. Instead, you should go through the government and then to the Riksdag, and the Riksdag should gather and decide that we should deploy troops. Where did the war delegation go? Then we have a motion where we talk about evasion and destruction of infrastructure in Sweden. There, the committee wants decisions to be moved to a higher level of decision-making. However, if we have operational cooperation and Finnish troops are in a place unrelated to Swedish forces, they must be authorised in the same way as the Swedish military is authorised, provided that they work together operationally. It may involve evasion and, in some cases, destruction. There are differences in viewpoints. I have spoken about a defence alliance with Finland. We say absolute and clear 'no' to NATO. There are several reasons for this. It is not a NATO debate we should have here, but we believe that joining NATO, with Erdo中an and that gang will increase the tension in our part of Europe. That is our firm conviction. A strong Swedish defence, much stronger than we have today and which we are about to get, working together with Finland is a stabilising factor in our part of Europe. That is why we say 'no' to NATO. I can also make a small comment because there was a little budget talk here before. One could read in the newspaper – it was well yesterday or today – that the ÖB once again calls for long-term defence. Long-term, in our opinion, extends to at least 2030. Then we should also have such a focus. He didn't say it there, but he thinks it would make planning easier for him if he were to receive a supplement after 2025. He wrote that in Svenska Dagbladet, I think. This is yet another confirmation of the policy that we have been pursuing for a long time and which we will pursue. It is about the long-term perspective and a budget that runs after 2025. I think it was good that he was clear there. I am not calling for anything, but I will support the committee's proposal and, therefore, the Government's proposal.
i-000e628e75992caa-69	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! I say hello to all of you sitting at home watching and listening. The Parliamentary Session has just been opened, and it is great that we get started with political debates right away. Today, Parliament is debating a bill that we hope will never have to be used. The proposal means that Sweden and Finland should be able to act together militarily in the event of an armed attack or violation of territory. In such events, Sweden and Finland shall be able to receive and provide military support from and to each other. Although we work in our foreign and security policy to ensure that such a situation – war and armed conflict – never arises, this is legislation that we in the Left Party support. The Left Party is behind Sweden's close defence cooperation with Finland. Finland is one of Sweden's closest, perhaps closest, partners. We share a lot and have very close ties. Above all, both our countries are outside NATO. The Left Party is, as everyone knows, very strongly opposed to Swedish membership of NATO. It is a nuclear alliance that would force us to participate in unwanted conflicts together with countries with which we would rather not cooperate. Madam President, I would like Cooperation with other countries and large organisations is a necessity. A prerequisite for enhanced cooperation with Finland and other Nordic countries is that the cooperation does not restrict Sweden's military alliance freedom. The freedom of military alliance is a prerequisite for Sweden to be able to conduct an independent foreign policy for peace and disarmament, which clearly contributes to safeguarding our country's security. The Left Party does not believe that this bill restricts our neutrality or our military freedom of alliance. It does not restrict our own decision-making in the area of security policy either, but it does make us stronger together after all. The Left Party notes that this bill only applies to Finland and that it is not automatically extended to any other countries. Finland has a special position in our defence policy because, like us, they are not members of NATO. So we hope, of course, that it will remain. Madam President, I would like Do not let this bill and the new law lead our attention away from what is really the most important thing in defence and security policy! It is working together with other countries and organisations for peace in the world and building our societies robust to withstand crises. We need to have a realistic analysis of what the major threats to our society are today. We are still in the midst of one of the biggest international civilian crises that we have seen: the pandemic caused by the Corona virus. We know that climate change threatens the very foundation of our existence on earth – there are large fires, droughts, storms and floods. Digitisation and constant connectivity pose a risk of attacks, propaganda and false news. These are threats for which we must equip society. We must have a welfare that can withstand pandemics. We must have emergency services that can withstand fires and floods. We must have a population that has a high level of emergency preparedness and can see through and resist various forms of influence. Madam President, I would like The most important goal is peace. As a neutral and non-aligned country with a long history of peace and a strong democracy, we have a great international responsibility to bring peace to the world together with other countries. We're supposed to be a country with an expanded diplomatic network. We shall have a large aid budget, and we shall have many inter-human cooperation across borders. Sweden should always stand up for human rights, for peace and for development in the world. The last time we see major peaceful demonstrations for democracy in Belarus. This is what must always be in focus when we talk about defence and security policy. Our aim is that this legislation should never have to be used. The Left Party supports the proposal and the committee's proposal in the report.
i-000e628e75992caa-78	Madam President, I would like Yes, the relationship that Sweden has with Finland is the few neighbouring countries in the world have been granted to have. It is a historical relationship that we must protect and develop. The bands that Sweden and Finland have to each other go way back in time. And this has benefited our two countries for a long time. We have a common story. In Sweden, the Finnish language is the largest minority language, and over the years ties have been made both through families and in business relations. We also have a lot to learn from Finland. During the Corona crisis, for example, it has become clear to many Swedes what strength the Finnish emergency stocks are for the country in a national crisis. When the crisis came and the needs suddenly became enormous, Finland was well equipped with both protective equipment and other materials. Madam President, I would like It is clear in many ways that cooperation between Sweden and Finland is particularly important for both countries' preparedness and total defence. Together with Germany, the Scandinavian countries account for one third of Sweden's foreign trade. Our cooperation with democratic countries around the Baltic Sea is important both for stability and for peaceful development in Europe. The same cooperation is also crucial for both Sweden and Finland's security and livelihoods. One of many examples of this is that half of Sweden's large exports of electricity go to Finland. As the transition to renewable energy has to move at an accelerated pace, exports also become of greater strategic importance. Madam President, I would like Both Sweden and Finland are non-aligned countries with a strong commitment to a rule-based world order and a just world. Our values are consistent, and we work together for peace, democracy and human rights. The Nordic countries are consistent in that human rights also apply to women's right to decide over their sexuality, their body and thus their life. When the US's commitment to the president falters back and forth, we are consistent in this way fully standing up for the equal rights of all people, regardless of gender or sexual orientation. We are working clearly and purposefully for a system in which it is not the large states that are allowed to settle matters among themselves, but where other countries are also given room to operate on the international stage. It is a system that has served peace well since the end of World War II. The cooperation between Finland and Sweden thus contributes to increased security, relaxation and stability in the Baltic Sea region. It has been historically important, and it is becoming more and more valuable today as the struggle between the world's great powers increases and the Russian foreign policy is more aggressive than it has been for a long time. Now it is important to build strong, non-aligned cooperation in order to be able to face an increasingly uncertain world. Because maybe it's not just bombs that will save us from the next crisis. Strong overall defence and work both against climate change and for a healthy Baltic Sea, for democracy and stability in the EU's neighbourhood is crucial for a good development in our part of the world ahead. In the world, we are also fighting together for democracy and human rights. Both our countries have long-term and stable aid in place and are always pressing for respect for a rule-based world order to be a leader in international work. These are values that have made small countries on the edge of Europe strong and that have served our countries well. Madam President, I would like The historical cooperation between Sweden and Finland will be protected and developed. Our cooperation is deepened with this decision, and we are even more shoulder to shoulder with Finland in current trials. We welcome that. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-000e628e75992caa-88	Madam President, I would like The proposal that is now before the Riksdag means that the possibilities for the government to make decisions about providing and receiving operational military support within the framework of the defence work that we have with Finland are increasing. This means that the Government is authorised to decide to deploy Swedish armed forces to assist Finland in preventing violations of Finnish territory as well as to receive military support in the form of military forces from Finland to prevent violations of Swedish territory and to face an armed attack against Sweden. In these cases, the parliament should not have to make decisions, but the government should be given those powers. The increased powers are justified by the need for speed in the decision-making process required by this cooperation. However, if Swedish armed forces are to be deployed to assist Finland in facing an armed attack, approval by the Riksdag is required, as this may lead to Sweden going to war. In addition, a number of legislative changes are proposed that create better conditions for Finnish forces to provide support in Sweden. Areas where Finnish forces provide support should be decided to be protected. Finnish military personnel shall be able to be engaged in the surveillance of such protective objects. The Government, or the authority determined by the Government, may decide whether Finnish military aviation is provided with support. Finnish forces should be able to be engaged to implement a Swedish authority's decision on evasion and destruction. The legislative proposals that the Riksdag has to adopt are therefore about creating the conditions necessary for the implementation of cooperation with Finland. In this context, it should also be mentioned that, in addition to the current legislative proposals, a further agreement on host country support is being negotiated with Finland. Such an agreement involves agreeing in advance on the practical, administrative and legal conditions for Swedish and Finnish units to operate on each other's territory. At the same time, work continues to develop and deepen Sweden's cooperation with other countries and organisations in order to strengthen security policy stability in our neighbourhood. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify a few questions. We can now take and provide military support from and to other countries if Parliament so decides. There is no obstacle to this. With Finland, however, we want to create an opportunity to do this more quickly, which, in addition to being neighbouring countries with the same security policy basis, that is to say, the freedom of military alliance, is because we have built cooperation with a proper depth. We've built a joint naval force. It is in itself divisible, but we have built it, and there is an opportunity to use it. We have extensive participation in each other's exercises on the army side as well as on the air side. This develops what is called interoperability, i.e. being able to interact in more sharp situations. We also have operational planning beyond peacetime conditions. I think it is important that this be said, because at the beginning of the debate it seemed a little unclear whether we had it or not. So we have such operational planning, and if you do, the question will eventually arise as to how quickly it will take place in a given situation. That is why we have drawn up this bill. In Finland, legislation was previously in place which basically allowed only international action. Finland felt the need to change this. Their conditions were completely different from ours. There was also a need to regulate the decision-making process between the President and Parliament, because they have a different decision-making process on these kinds of issues. Therefore, it is not entirely correct to compare the Finnish legislative conditions directly with the Swedish ones or how to approach the situation. It should also be said in fairness that there is no strong support in Finland for membership of NATO. This applies both to Parliament and to public opinion, and I believe that everyone present in this House is aware of this. Then, of course, the long border with Russia and also the historical experiences of the Soviet Union have led to strategic thinking which also includes the geopolitical balance in relation to that part of our geography. It is clear that this too is something to which we must relate. It is easy to sit in Sweden and say that now we are going to join NATO, without thinking about the enormous pressure that we would put on Finland in such a situation and what a big change in the whole security policy situation that we would push forward in our neighbourhood. However, it is not the same as not seeing what is happening in Russia. I have been talking about these issues ever since we were in opposition, before we came to government power in 2014. I also know what it has been like to try to convince some government representatives back then that we are actually living in a new security policy situation. It's an experience I've had with me in my job as Secretary of Defense. That is why we must also build a new type of security network around Sweden. I have said so many times that something happens to any country in our neighbourhood it affects everyone. It's a real fact. Tell me something's happening on Gotland. It is of direct importance to the Baltic States. It is of direct importance to Finland, Poland and Germany, Denmark and Norway. It changes the whole security policy situation, and then it is clear that all the collaborations, interoperability exercises and everything we have done during this time are very important for how we meet this. Of course, in some sense we must look at how we quickly meet this together. We have also joined the Joint Expeditionary Force, the rapid reaction force led by the United Kingdom. It is clear that it is in our interest that this resource can also be involved in our neighbourhood. I do not see our security cooperation as just some theoretical models. That is not how I feel in contact with other countries' defence forces, commander-in-chiefs, defence ministers and governments. I feel that we all see this as realities, that is, we are doing these exercises and have this cooperation to build the threshold higher so that we do not end up in the situation, as someone said, that the resource that exists needs to be used. That's what this is all about. If we in Finland and Sweden together change our security policy basis, it is clear that it will be an effect and lead to a upheaval, but it is not the same as being naive and not looking clearly at the environment. I would also like to remind you that we have built a stronger transatlantic link in these years. There is today a statement of intent for USA-Sweden-Finland. It didn't exist before. I thought it was very important to have it signed together with the American and Finnish defence ministers. There is also a bilateral statement of intent between Sweden and the United States, and Finland has the same. We have further developed cooperation with the United Kingdom extremely far in comparison with what it looked like when the work started. At Nordefco there is a process in progress where we get closer together and even based on different security policy positions deepen collaborations. What we are deciding today is also getting a surge into the thinking of Nordefco. It will also be a security policy signal to our close environment. This will be noted and understood on the Russian side and among our partners. What we are doing today actually has an effect. If we look at the history of Swedish security policy and defence policy, this legislation is a major change. It is a substantial advance of the position, that is to say, a position that matters. It is part of the threshold-building strategy in which we hope that no one will skip the threshold. The war delegation was mentioned in this context. It's Parliament's organs. In wartime, the war delegation will take the place of the Riksdag. Legislation can be used for action even when it is not war. When there is war, special conditions will apply. Then the war delegation has entered. I do not think that one excludes the other, but that both levels – both dimensions – are needed here. Let me sum up. We gradually deepen our cooperation with other countries in many different ways. We are concluding new agreements, and above all we are developing our ability to interact in a practical way. It is precisely the practical way that is crucial. This calls for trust between countries and rapid decision-making. NATO is a partner. I have many contacts on the NATO side, and I have participated from time to time in NATO's ministerial meetings of defence. The Parliament has the NATO Parliamentary Assembly where you participate in various meetings. This is a necessary relationship, and it is part of a common security building. I believe that Sweden is a very attractive partner, that it has respect for Swedish representatives of the Swedish Armed Forces and our units. We deliver, are professional and have knowledge. It works in practice. I've seen it so many times in reality, and I've received that kind of feedback many times. It should also be said, so that we do not paint a picture in the Riksdag that is not quite true but becomes a little too black. Much needs to be developed within the Swedish Armed Forces and in cooperation with other countries, but we have come a long way. We're going to move on, and this is an important step. I am proud that Parliament will probably take this decision a little later today.
i-000e628e75992caa-117	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to the Minister for Defence for coming to Parliament to take part in the debate. Just as everyone has talked about, Sweden is working closely with Finland. We agree that this cooperation is important and good. But the debate is therefore easily about other things in such contexts, and NATO has been discussed in many different ways. For us in the Left Party, cooperation with Finland is important, as I said in my speech, inter alia because both countries are outside NATO. We have a community in that we have chosen to be neutral and militaryly non-aligned. We see, however, that the bourgeois parties take the chance to talk a lot about Sweden's ever closer approach to NATO and become a member. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence what his position is with NATO today. Can the Minister of Defence guarantee that no further rapprochement with NATO will take place in the future or that Sweden will even become a member?
i-000e628e75992caa-121	Madam President, I would like Sweden should retain the military freedom of alliance, but in the case of NATO, we are in a process, just as we are with Finland, Nordefco, the United States and the United Kingdom, of developing cooperation in different ways. That's because the world changes and evolves so that new things happen all the time. International operations are taking place with these countries. That's because things have happened. The concept of rapprochement is delicate; if something happens where, for example, we, together with NATO countries or NATO as an organisation, have to do something, it will be a rapprochement that would not be okay. I believe that Sweden, as a military non-aligned country, must decide on a case-by-case basis on what to do, but we must also push forward ideas of various kinds ourselves. It is in our interest to have an operational thinking with as many people as possible in the Baltic Sea region. It's about building thresholds and being prepared. In the big exercises we participate in, we actually practice interoperability. It has a certain purpose, that is to be able to defend oneself in a given situation – if we so decide. But just as Hanna Gunnarsson says, we hope that this will never have to be used because the threshold is built so that if someone is thinking about doing something, you should understand that it gets a little complicated and that it can hurt. The best thing is if the opportunities we create do not need to be used. That's one of the purposes.
i-000e628e75992caa-125	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer, which was not as clear as I would have wished. The Secretary of Defense begins, and then comes one but; we are in the process of developing cooperation if anything happens. I would have liked a much greater clarity from the Minister for Defence on this issue. I am therefore asking the question again, and I am so insolent as to ask whether the Minister for Defence can guarantee that we will not approach membership of NATO.
i-000e628e75992caa-127	Madam President, I would like I've already answered. As far as the government is concerned, NATO membership is out of the question. The basis for cooperation with other countries and organisations, including NATO, is the freedom of military alliance. Hanna Gunnarsson just mentioned the word rapprochement. That's what made me have to make a digression and explain that it's not as simple as saying that we shouldn't approach. Here it is a question of dealing with developments that are constantly going on and that we are not getting away with. We do this together with the partners Sweden has, where the partnership with NATO, among other things, is part of.
i-000e628e75992caa-129	Madam President, I would like Now that we are discussing defence cooperation with Finland, it is reasonable to discuss both what this cooperation gives us and what it does not give us. The fact is, Peter Hultqvist, that Sweden stands without binding promises of military assistance from outside – even with the excellent agreement that we are discussing today. Treaty guarantees of defence will become part of us only through NATO membership. The Secretary of Defense usually justifies his opposition to NATO membership, with the fact that the freedom of alliance has served us well. At the same time, we know that the substance of this freedom of alliance has been based for decades on unspoken but supposed military support from the United States and NATO. The restraining effect of this has served us well. But now we live in a different time – or, as the Minister of Defence himself says, at a time with fundamentally changed security policy conditions. This is due to a more aggressive Russia but also to an American course shift away from important international collaborations and away from their own military efforts in different parts of the world. Stability and security in this situation require clear guarantees and broader joint defence planning. If Sweden continues to remain out of this, uncertainty can increase as well as the risk of attack. My question to Peter Hultqvist is: why risk such a development?
i-000e628e75992caa-134	Madam President, I would like As you know, our strategy rests on two legs. One is a step-by-step increase in capacity, which requires quite a lot of money. We have grown quite substantially since May 2015, and we are about to make additional funds – we have said EUR 25 billion on our part. The second is the cooperation. Cross-border training at Nordkalotten virtually every week has a safety policy effect and sends a security policy signal. I have now also very clearly invited the US Air Force to participate with increased frequency in this. Northern Wind was such an exercise where we practiced together with the USA, the UK, a brigade from Norway and 1 800 soldiers from Finland and 3 000 from Sweden – a clear security policy signal. Next year we have Arctic Lock in Finland, a great exercise which of course sends a strong signal due to its geographical location. Aurora had an important effect. I'm sorry we had to postpone that exercise this year. With regard to the United States, I would just like to say that, regardless of all the tweeting and how it sometimes sounds in the debate, the United States has delivered exactly what we have been agreed on all along – except during the Corona era, and that has its specific explanations. However, the presence of the United States in our part of Europe, including marine and airside, has actually increased. I also see in the discussions we have a clear consensus on the security policy situation here and why the US is contributing to the neighbourhood. In the reality I live in and what I experience, it is very close and short links between these countries and very much of information exchange and coordination. In this world, I think the debate will be in a different way. But I believe that what we are doing has real significance.
i-000e628e75992caa-141	Madam President, I would like What the Minister for Defence says is correct and correct in substance, and there is every reason to support and be happy about this. The problem is that the new time and the new situation we have and which the Minister for Defence is talking about are not translated into practical action. After all, it is a matter of navigating according to the situation we have today. It does not stick to the old arguments and the old points of speech. The notification of how Sweden should be defended in a war or crisis situation must be clear. Uncertainty is a dangerous state, as we have seen throughout history, and there are ways of avoiding it. Krister Bringéus, the ambassador, writes in the report on Sweden's defence policy cooperation that was presented a few years ago: ..................................................... The Treaty guarantees remove the uncertainty, Peter Hultqvist. The conflict-resisting ability is increasing. Now the government chooses to refrain from this, to say no to the insurance. I would like to conclude by saying that, in plain language, this is taking on a great responsibility for a long time to come.
i-000e628e75992caa-145	Madam President, I would like I am not moving with any old points at all. I am moving with very new points of speech, which are anchored right now in the everyday life that we are experiencing. The defence cooperation we are now moving forward the positions in step by step, that is what is happening now. What the Riksdag is now considering is a new matter that is taking place today. It's not an old saying. It is a unique decision in Swedish defence and security policy history. I don't like the description that I'm moving in some old world. We have developed so much cooperation in the years since 2014 that was not done by the Right Alliance government. I believe that there has been a real change here. We are not abstaining from anything. We are actually creating opportunities to do something in practice. Operational planning with Finland creates these opportunities. Interoperability with the others creates these opportunities. The great participation in these exercises creates those opportunities. It is not just to sign treaties and then to think that this is solved, but to do the practical work that we do almost every day. What we are not doing, and that is what separates us, is changing the basic security policy conditions in our part of Europe. This is because we believe that it will put enormous pressure on Finland and create a different security policy situation where the tone is rising and tensions are increasing, and it serves no purpose. I think what we're doing is actually a smarter strategy.
i-000e628e75992caa-150	Madam President, I would like It is quite right, as the Government says, that we build security together. We have a solidarity policy. Basically, that means we're all in the same boat. We've identified a threat and who's threatening it. If someone is affected, we are all affected, and it is of course important that we have a speed to act together. When the Minister of Defence says that we are gradually building operational cooperation, does the Minister of Defence expect us to proceed with precisely the kind of legislation that we are deciding on today with more countries? We would like to see general legislation, as Finland has. Can the Secretary of Defense also see that it would have value? It is clear that speed is also threshold raising. Or is the Secretary of Defense of a different opinion? Then I have a question about the NATO option. At least I have heard in several contexts from Finnish representatives that it was used to mark against Russia. It has a threshold-building effect, that's why it's still there, and there's a broad consensus around it. Would the Minister of Defence not imagine that Sweden is doing like Finland and issuing a NATO option and that it is also building thresholds together with Finland?
i-000e628e75992caa-153	Madam President, I would like Speed is threshold raising. That is the background to this legislation, which I have tried to explain. I have also tried to explain why we are doing it with Finland. There is no country other than Finland with which we have such depth in our cooperation. That's why there's a maturity to do this. In addition, Sweden and Finland have the same basic concept of security policy, that is, the freedom of military alliance. When I say that we can act operationally together, it is the opportunity for practice activities I am referring to, to build interoperability. Parliament has the opportunity to decide to give help to or receive help from virtually any country. However, since we have this degree of maturity – if I can call it that – and far-reaching cooperation with Finland, we want to create opportunities to do so more quickly. I do not want to speculate today about or have any general reasoning as to whether or not we should go ahead with legislation with regard to other countries. I note that this is the proposal. And that depends on what I've been trying to explain here today. This policy of solidarity is quite right. I believe that what we have done together with other countries in our part of Europe – not only Sweden but also Finland is involved in building these networks – has made us today in a safer and more stable position than before when it comes to our networks and parts. It's another thing that you've screwed up your actions from elsewhere in different ways. But together we have contributed to stability. NATO's presence and American presence in the Baltic States and, I guess, in our neighbourhood with different types of activities have also made a significant contribution.
i-000e628e75992caa-159	Madam President, I would like We are talking about the freedom of military alliance. But what if we all end up in the same boat? If anyone is attacked, we will all be attacked, and if anyone attacks it will be Russia. If anyone violates, it will be Russia, which poses a threat. Then the question is what protection the military freedom of alliance gives us. Do we not have to have the ability to act together quickly? If our Baltic neighbours, who are NATO members, were to be exposed, should we not be able to act quickly? Are we not otherwise at risk in our Baltic region in such a way that others would have a weakened security? Speed is threshold raising. And there would be a value in speed in the joint action of the Baltic Sea region if Russia – god forbid – were to act here. For me and the Center Party, the question is also whether we want to raise thresholds to prevent what we do not want to see happen. Would not the threshold that our Baltic neighbours have acquired and, as the Minister for Defence says, have a significant impact on us, namely NATO membership, have an elevating effect here too? Is there not a risk that we are on different planes and can be played with in the event of the worst happening? Madam President, I would like NATO countries feel that common defence guarantees raise the thresholds. Doesn't the Secretary of Defense feel that way?
i-000e628e75992caa-163	Madam President, I would like Each country has its own geographical conditions. For the Baltic States it will be very important to be in NATO and in the EU. That's it. It is possible to explain Norway's membership with logical arguments. You all know how Swedish and Finnish history has been since the beginning of the 20th century, with different types of conflicts and balance points when it comes to NATO. We know about the aid or friendship pact – or whatever it is – that Finland was forced into and a smooth transition between East and West. But we do not get away from the Swedish and Finnish geographical situation and that a change in security policy doctrine would lead to a completely different state of tension, supposedly in a negative direction. It should be made clear that the pressure that Finland would be subjected to in this context is something that we should not underestimate in our assessments. What we are now trying to do is simply to use a method in which we in practice deepen our cooperation and do something in a real sense. Exercise, interoperability and operational planning with Finland have actually contributed to raising thresholds in a real sense. Sweden is perceived by our colleagues and representatives of various NATO countries as a very interesting and attractive partner. I do not think they reason that Sweden would not be prepared to take responsibility in a security policy crisis. On the other hand, each country has a position on what it does. It should also be made clear that NATO is a broad alliance with many different interests. Even within the European Union we can see how these different interests are played out. Speed is therefore not the same as heavy organizations every day.
i-000e628e75992caa-169	Madam President, I would like Secretary of Defense! In my speech, I have just gone through some differences between our parties. But, of course, we will support this, because it is a good thing. It is much better than the reservation that has been put forward. But we want to abandon the freedom of alliance to a certain extent, because we advocate a defence alliance, which is a form of alliance, with Finland. I will not demand an answer about such a covenant. But I wonder whether the Minister for Defence and the Government are prepared to take further steps towards enhanced cooperation. There are some areas in which you can do it. As we expand the Swedish Armed Forces and civil defence, cooperation in these areas can lead to a great deal of synergy. I know it's happening. But we see that it can develop. I would like to have a comment on that. Sweden has a defence association with Finland because it significantly increases the so-called threshold effect. However, as the Minister for Defence points out, only the decision to be taken today does so. However, we believe that we need to go further. Not today, but on another occasion, an enemy was pointed out. In here it was said that Russia is an enemy. It is inappropriate, stupid and stupid to stand in this Chamber and point out enemies of Sweden, Madam President. We can experience a threat. So do we. Where's it coming from? Today it comes from there. Where does it come from in 15 - 20 years? We have no idea. We will take the height of the defense against any future pressure.
i-000e628e75992caa-173	Madam President, I would like When it comes to whether we are prepared to deepen cooperation, the answer is yes. We are always prepared to look in different areas at where we can find common points of contact so that we can deepen it. Only that you practice more and more together, that the units get to know each other and that you can be seen in each other's countries leads to a process where it all deepens. As far as civil defence is concerned, of course, we should also have a positive attitude towards cooperation. The ironic situation is that Finland once copied Swedish civil defence, Swedish emergency storage and Swedish one and the other in this area. When the Cold War ended, we took it away in Sweden. Now we can go to Finland on a study trip and see what Swedish civil defence and Swedish civil preparedness once looked like. A little humorously put, we must go there and copy what we once built up ourselves.
i-000e628e75992caa-175	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the answers, which I think were positive. I have one last question, right now. I'm thinking about materiel cooperation. When you go so far as to have operational cooperation and deepen it with exercises and so on, you could imagine an extension. I know that there are ongoing discussions between Sweden and Finland on the purchase of various equipment, without pointing out what it is about. I believe that an important part of this is that in certain situations the benefits can also be added and joint purchases of equipment can be made. I think the Secretary of Defense knows what I mean. But it requires that both countries think it is good, with counter-purchases and so on. Does the Minister of Defence see a value in continuing to do so if it has not already done so?
i-000e628e75992caa-178	Madam President, I would like Of course I do. I have full respect for Finnish decision-making and decision-making integrity when it comes, for example, to their next fighter aircraft. Saab has made an offer, and if you decide for it, it would of course open tremendous opportunities for an in-depth collaboration that could have a great impact. But this is a Finnish decision, and I have full respect for it.
i-000e628e75992caa-179	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to give the Minister for Defence the right to two points. Firstly, we are in a very serious security policy situation. I think there is a broad understanding of this in this House. Secondly, the Minister for Defence says that if a Nordic country is attacked, it will affect all countries. You can call it the Nordic security policy community. I also believe that this is the case. Should a country be attacked, it will affect all of us, and we are likely to be drawn into it. However, the consequence of this is that the neutrality option is not relevant and that the military alliance freedom is also not relevant as a security policy arrangement in the event of an armed attack. The Secretary of Defense has long and well talked about our international defence cooperation. It is basically a pre-conditional job to be able to have an opportunity. But there is only one organisation in Europe that has shared common defence obligations and, above all, common defence planning to make these defence obligations credible, and that is NATO. As long as we choose to remain outside NATO, the Minister for Defence, we will not have access to the common defence planning within NATO. We have now had two investigations into Sweden's international defence cooperation. We heard Lars Adaktusson talking about Krister Bringéus's investigation, but we have also had Tomas Bertelman's investigation. Both of these investigations have been unambiguous. Our accession to NATO removes uncertainty as regards the development of activities in the immediate region. This is basically due to the fact that we are all part of a larger common security complex. If you want a strong war-retardant capability, you can of course cooperate with Finland, but it would be even more effective to cooperate with 27 other countries within the framework of NATO.
i-000e628e75992caa-182	Madam President, I would like When we joined the EU, what Pål Jonson calls the neutrality option changed. It is therefore a chapter that has been historically passed. I just wanted to say so that we're talking about the right things here. This means that we have a commitment to all members of the European Union. This was at its head in the context of the terrorist attack in France when reference was made to Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon and requested the support and assistance of all EU members. I attended this meeting myself, and we then delivered to France from this part. As far as military alliance freedom is concerned, it is very good to cooperate with other countries within the framework of military alliance freedom. That's what we do, too. I've listed a lot of collaborations that we've built. What we are doing today, for the Swedish part, is unique historically by moving the positions forward in this way. But what you never comment on is when I try to explain that it's not that simple in this world. If you have a large organisation from South to North in Europe that also has a connection to the United States, you should not think that this huge colossus can immediately decide how to act in a combat situation and that it only comes as if by a finger-napping. Instead, we are building bilateral and multilateral cooperation so that we can intervene as soon as it ever happens in such a situation. You are also underestimating the impact on the security policy situation that this would have if we were to change doctrine in Sweden and Finland and the difficult situation in which Finland finds itself in such a process. You forget that support for NATO membership in Finland is relatively weak. Nor is there a majority for this in their Parliament. Here it sounds like they're on the threshold of it.
i-000e628e75992caa-187	Madam President, I would like The investigations I referred to earlier were quite clear. It is clear that Russia will not appreciate Swedish and Finnish membership should we end up there. But Swedish defence policy cannot be guided by what Moscow sees as most important from their point of view. This is the very basis for NATO's war-resisting capability, or what in English is called good fences make good neighbours. On the other hand, it would be stabilizing in the immediate area if Sweden and Finland were part of the larger common security complex that exists in the Nordic-Baltic area. There NATO is the only cooperation that has common defence obligations. In particular, there is a common operational planning to make cooperation credible. It is absolutely excellent that we cooperated with France during the terrorist attack they were subjected to, but that is something else. The EU can never replace NATO's role in territorial defence. We probably quite agree – albeit from different points of view – that the EU should not pursue territorial defence. It is NATO and the transatlantic link that are important for the development of security policy in the immediate region. I would also like to raise the issue which Kerstin Lundgren raised but did not receive an answer to. Finland has a NATO option in its security policy line. Finland has said that this option has become more important following Russia's military attack on Ukraine and its illegal annexation of Crimea. This, of course, creates an awareness in Moscow that if Russia increases military pressure on Finland, Finland could have the right to apply for NATO membership. Why does the Minister of Defence not want Sweden to have the same freedom of action and be able to become a member of NATO through a NATO option?
i-000e628e75992caa-191	Madam President, I would like Don't even insinuate for one minute that we are controlled by Moscow, Pål Jonson! If we have a statement of intent between Sweden, Finland and the United States, that does not mean that we are governed by Moscow. If we have a statement of intent between Sweden and the United States, and if Finland has the same, it does not mean that we are governed by Moscow. All these collaborations that we have now built up certainly do not mean that we are governed by Moscow. Based on their conduct in security policy, we have developed a security network around others to raise the threshold. We have done a lot in reality to confront the situation. That is certainly much more than you achieved during your eight-year reign. I note that suggestion of being ruled by Moscow, but I can never accept it. If there is any government that has been aware of what has been going on over there, it is we, and we did so even during our opposition period. As far as uncertainty is concerned, we are building on the current situation and taking a position on the geostrategic situation. It is a way of approaching the problems that, in my view, creates greater stability than a re-evaluation of the whole doctrine of security policy, which will affect the situation. There is also a need to look at Finland's situation in this context. They have their history and their way of dealing with this. I think we complement each other well. I feel that we have deep and close cooperation from President to Government level in this whole perspective. I also feel that the Finnish Parliament is in the real and deep sense behind what we are doing, just as it is in Sweden. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate. It would be very positive if Parliament now supports the new legislation, because it will move our positions forward considerably. It is something that can also be written into the history books. Thank you, Pål, and thank you everyone else!
