i-f20b6a493322aab0-4	Madam President, I would like Ingemar Kihlström has asked me whether I am going to make proposals that change the rules so that more convicted of serious crimes can be expelled from Sweden, and when this will happen. Since 1994, the National Board of Deportation for Crimes has not undergone any major changes. Since then, the roots have changed and have partly taken on new forms, including in the form of a growing gang crime. The government has taken various measures, including in the field of criminal law, which means that in more cases it is possible to decide on the expulsion of the person convicted of a crime. As I have said on several occasions, the government believes that further action needs to be taken. Work is therefore under way to set up an investigation to carry out a broad review of the legislation on expulsions due to crime. The purpose of the investigation is to allow the expulsion of more convicted than is currently the case. The Government's ambition is for the investigation to be set up shortly.
i-f20b6a493322aab0-7	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by thanking Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson for setting aside time for an interpellation debate in these coronatids. I would also like to thank you for your answer, although it was not in all respects as complete and as clear as I would have liked. The background to the interpellation is that for some time we have seen examples of expulsion not being a basic rule in the case of serious crimes committed by the citizens of other countries. For example, a very attentive murder was committed in Gothenburg last July when one man stabbed another with a knife. The killer was sentenced to 16 years in prison. A man who helped him by pushing others away was sentenced to eight years in prison. The helper is not a Swedish citizen, but in the judgment the district court rejected the prosecutor's request for expulsion. The Christian Democrats believe that this is unreasonable. The current regulatory framework needs to be changed. The reason why people who contribute to murder can stay in Sweden is that it takes extraordinary reasons to expel someone who has been in Sweden for more than four years. Even though a person is sentenced to eight years in prison, courts with today's interpretation of the law may conclude that the person is not to be expelled. As a reason, it can be stated that the person has lived in Sweden for a long time, acquired a job or been convicted of minor crime. But if you get eight years in prison, you have a sentence higher than 95 percent of the inmates in prison today. The problem has worsened following a judgment in the Supreme Court which came this summer and which concerned a rapist who was convicted but who was considered to have too strong links with Sweden to be expelled, even though he had neither his own home nor work in Sweden. The Finnish Immigration Service also considered that the threat in the man's home country had changed for the better, but nevertheless this person, convicted of a serious crime, was not expelled. Madam President, I would like In connection with the verdict, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson stated that expulsion should be the main rule in the event of a crime. As can be seen from the response to the interpellation, there is a focus of the government to set up an investigation with a broad review of the legislation, but the problem is that the investigation is not yet started. There is an ambition, but where is the timetable? One might ask: When does the investigation start? What is the timeframe? When can we count on a bill? When can we have legislation decided and in practice? When can we expect a change in the situation of expulsion in connection with serious crimes? Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the following additional questions to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson: what timetable does the Minister see for the change in legislation that I find both the Minister of Justice and I consider necessary to ensure that expulsions are more effective in connection with serious crimes? When is the investigation expected to start? When can it be ready? And when does the Minister judge that there is a bill that can be submitted for decision? If we are to have time for a change of legislation that can enter into force this parliamentary term, the work needs to start as soon as possible.
i-f20b6a493322aab0-15	Madam President, I would like I will be a little more brief today in view of the crisis that we in the Government Office are in. We work around the clock to deal with the corona infection. I hope that everyone understands that the debates on other subjects can then be a little shorter. With regard to expulsions, there can be no doubt as to what is the government's line, that is to say, we believe that more sentenced people should be expelled. My entry is that if you are convicted of serious crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens, the main rule is expulsion. Not only do I say this, but it was also a Social Democratic election promise and one thing that we went to elections in 2018. It shall be implemented during this term of office. We will therefore carry out a review of the regulatory framework. This review will have a wide range of aspects. We will look at the penalty value, which today is one year. This is going to be an investigation. We will look at the issue of connection, that is, the issue raised by Ingemar Kihlström, which concerns exceptional reasons. This will also be included in the investigation. We will review the length of the return ban, even in a tightening direction. Today, there are different rules on how long an expulsion should apply before you are allowed to return to Sweden. That is where we will be moving in a sharper direction. We will also look at the issue of honour-related crimes in particular. This is the result of the January agreement between the Government, the Centre Party and the Liberals. These were just a few examples of issues that will be included in the review. There are many more, but the common thing for the investigation is that it will go in a sharper direction. We're in the final stages of preparation of the investigation. The directive, as I said, will be written shortly, and then we will be talking in a few weeks' time. The timetable is for the investigation to be set up, and I see it will be able to deliver a report next year. Then comes a bill during the term of office so that we can implement the tightening-up during this period. Having said that, I would like to say that we must not forget that we are already carrying out many expulsions, in fact more than ever before. Last year 1 085 expulsions were carried out from Sweden due to crime. It's almost 100 a month. This was a sharp increase in relation to 2018, in fact an increase of almost 70 percent. This points, I believe, not only to the fact that the system in that sense works, but also to the fact that we can carry out the expulsions that we decide on. In short, we are already showing more convicted people than ever before, and we will increase the opportunities to do so in even more cases. The signal must be clear, that is, if you come to Sweden and commit serious crimes, you should know that you will be sent back home to your home country after serving time.
i-f20b6a493322aab0-25	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Morgan Johansson for clarifying the timetable and content. It is gratifying that we have one. I therefore thank you for this information. Expulsion in serious crimes also bears on the strained situation that we have in today's prison service. It is clear that we have a lack of space in the prison services. The prison services are currently under severe strain and consider that at least 6 300 places of detention and 3 200 places of detention are required by 2029. Although, as the Minister reports, we are deporting people, it is a fact that, according to the information I have, some 30% of those in prison today are citizens of other countries. There is, as the Minister says, no reason why they should not be expelled. If you are a crime in Sweden, you should not have the right to remain. It is good that the focus is to tighten the regulatory framework. I also believe that the government needs to give further mandates and focus to the prison services to increase and deepen cooperation with the prison services in other countries so that the number of expulsions can increase further compared to what has now happened. There are announcements, and it is good that the government is listening to both the Committee on Justice and the Social Security Committee, which has focused on the fact that expulsions due to crime should be considered in more cases. It is not just us in the opposition who have highlighted the issue of expulsions. In a recent report, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined the state's efforts to get people who are not allowed to stay in Sweden to leave the country voluntarily or under coercion. The review shows that it does not work effectively. It's a related question. I wonder how the government will deal with the recommendation and criticism made by the National Audit Office, which believes that there is reason for the government to consider the organisation and division of responsibilities of authorities. I would like to ask a supplementary question. How does Morgan Johansson view the criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office that has today been directed against how Sweden handles today's expulsions?
i-f20b6a493322aab0-32	Madam President, I would like If I am not misinformed, this review and report is mainly about the expulsion of persons who have been refused their asylum applications. That is another issue, as it were, on which this report is concerned. I also saw that the Swedish National Audit Office's report is based on the conditions in 2013 – 2014. This is what the National Audit Office was looking at. It is an interesting report for the historians in that case. But it does not reflect what the situation is now. It's the other way around. If we are talking about rejections as a result of people having been refused their asylum applications, it is in fact the case that over 70 000 people have left Sweden in the last five years. Either they have travelled to another EU country as a result of the Dublin Regulation or to their home country. It is therefore 1 000 people a month who have left Sweden for the last five years. We have agreements with Afghanistan, which we have not had before. Deportation to other countries, such as Morocco, is much easier. We haven't done that before. It may be that the situation has now changed as a result of the Corona situation. But so far in these five years, this activity has also worked considerably more effectively than it has done in the past. But we will of course look at what the Swedish National Audit Office says and also see if there are any conclusions that we can draw from this, even if the basic material is six seven years back in time. The issue of penitentiary services is partly another issue because deportation as a result of a crime takes place after the sentence has been served. It is therefore not really important for how many people are in prison in Sweden. However, we are also working on another track, namely to ensure that those convicted of crimes here in Sweden are to a greater extent serving their sentences in their home country. In this regard, we submitted a legislative proposal just a few weeks ago on a special urgency requirement for the prison service, that is, when the prison service sees that there is a person who could serve his or her sentence in his or her home country, it should be more urgent to raise that question in order to implement it. I see that there are a number of countries that we have not been able to send people to in the past to serve their sentences there, such as Romania, but which we can now do. Romania simply receives its own citizens to a greater extent for them to serve their sentences in Romania and not in Sweden. We work with this mainly in relation to the countries where we have problems with international theft leagues. Romania is such a country, Lithuania is such a country, Poland is such a country and Georgia is such a country where we say that citizens from these countries who are convicted here in Sweden must increasingly serve the sentences in their home countries. We simply need the detention centres for our own criminals. Especially now that we have increased effectiveness in law enforcement by the police, we need to free these places for those that the police take here in Sweden, who are Swedish citizens and who are going to serve the sentences here. We're working on both fronts. We will see to it that those who are judged more and more will serve the sentences in the home countries. However, we are also working on the issue on which this discussion is concerned, i.e. expulsion on the grounds of crime. As I said, this was one of our election promises. We are setting up an investigation shortly, and I look forward to having a report next year and then a proposal to Parliament, so that we also tighten up this regulatory framework.
i-f20b6a493322aab0-42	Madam President, I would like Today's interpellation debate has shown that there is a need to amend the legislation so that deportation to a greater extent applies to serious crimes. I am pleased to have received an answer from the Minister of Justice regarding a planned timetable. This means that we see that this issue will be dealt with. We Christian Democrats are happy to be involved in rapid handling, discussion and decision making in order to allow for a change of law that will expel people from other countries who commit crimes in our country. We also support the work that citizens from other countries who are convicted of crimes in Sweden should as a rule serve the sentence in their home countries. With regard to what is needed in terms of changes in legislation, perhaps regulatory letters and further calls for penitentiary services, we are willing to support it. We see that we have a common understanding. If you are a crime in Sweden, you should not have the right to stay here. We want a clear definition of this. Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Justice and Migration for having set aside time for debate today, and I also thank you for the work that the government is doing on the Corona efforts that we fully support.
i-f20b6a493322aab0-45	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate. I do not see any major differences in the direction in which we are going. Then it is certain that when the proposals themselves come, there are details that we will need to discuss further. However, I look forward to being able to carry this process forward in cooperation with the Committee on Justice and the Riksdag in general, and I therefore see that we shall be able to deliver such legislation during the term of office.
