i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-2	Madam President, I would like This report deals with the management structure of the Swedish National Audit Office. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which rejects the proposal for a new management structure. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has the task of reviewing all activities carried out by the state. It has a unique role as an independent authority during the Riksdag and has a constitutionally protected independence in terms of what is to be reviewed and how the review is to be carried out. In view of the assignment, the Swedish National Audit Office has a special position compared to other authorities in Sweden. The reports released after a review often receive great media attention, no later than yesterday when the Swedish National Audit Office's review report on the RUT deduction came. These reports help to strengthen the democratic transparency of the state's activities and enable the Riksdag to demand accountability. The assignment as a national auditor is therefore one of the most important tasks you can have in that you have an almost unlimited possibility of transparency in public activities. The requirements imposed on a national auditor are therefore high, and an elected national auditor must have a high level of integrity and, at the same time, a high reputation in administration and with political representatives. Today, the Swedish National Audit Office is led by three national auditors, one of whom has administrative responsibility. One of the services is vacant because the Director of Parliament had that position. In the proposal for a new management structure, it is proposed that the Riksdag should in future elect only a national auditor as head of authority and that the Riksdag should elect a director of the National Audit Office. One of the arguments for this solution is that the Swedish National Audit Office is in need of a clearer head of authority. Madam President, I would like We agree that it is important that the Swedish National Audit Office has a clear head of authority internally and externally. However, we believe that there are several good reasons for continuing to have more than one national auditor who can decide independently and independently whether and what is to be examined and who is responsible for examining the state. In the new proposal with a national auditor, competence risks becoming both narrower and weaker. With only one national auditor increases the risk that the agency can be perceived as politically coloured in a way that can undermine confidence in the Swedish National Audit Office's audits. Only the suspicion that the independence and independence of a national auditor can be undermined does we think is serious. This could ultimately upset public confidence in the Swedish National Audit Office in a way that would be unfortunate. Instead, the Left Party believes, as the Stockholm Administrative Court does in its referral, that a management structure with a chief executive auditor who is head of authority and several governors, similar to the organisation of the Ombudsman for Justice, would be a better structure. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament's Board also proposes that the Riksdag elect a Deputy National Auditor with the title of Director of the National Audit Office. The Director of the Swedish National Audit Office shall be able to manage the administrative management of the Agency but also, if necessary, be able to take care of, decide and be responsible for national audit matters. If the National Auditor considers himself or herself, the Director of the National Audit Office shall also be able to initiate an audit. We believe that the relationship between the National Auditor and the proposed Director of the National Audit Office in the proposal is problematic, partly because the Director of the National Audit Office is proposed to be re-elected while this does not apply to the National Auditor. This means that the Director of the National Auditor risks getting too much power in relation to the National Auditor. There is a risk that the Director of the National Audit Office may be perceived as the real Head of Government. In some respects, the National Auditor will be subordinate to the Director of the National Audit Office and, in other respects, have a very strong position vis-à-vis it. In the case of the National Auditor, the possibility of re-election has been excluded. It has been considered that this could pose a risk of weakening or weakening the independence of the national auditor. Only the suspicion that a national auditor, in order to strengthen his chances of re-election, would refrain from drawing uncomfortable conclusions or making recommendations, could upset confidence in the National Audit Office. The fact that the same reasoning does not apply to the proposed Director of the National Audit Office, which is nevertheless given such a strong position in the proposal, is remarkable to us. In this context, I would like to point out that we have great confidence in today's national audit, its employees and national auditors. But sometimes there are members of the KU who are wise and usually point out that one should not assume that there should be sunshine all the time. You need to have a robust structure and preparedness that also works in a more unstable weather. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish National Audit Office, independence is crucial for a continued high level of trust. With a Chief Auditor and two National Auditors, I believe that the independence of the Swedish National Audit Office in its audit activities had been preserved in a better way than in the proposal. They could then decide independently what should be examined, how the review should be conducted and what conclusions can be drawn from the reviews. Madam President, I would like All in all, all the aforementioned doubts about the management structure and the role of the Director of the National Audit that unfortunately we cannot support the decision.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-17	Madam President, I would like A well-functioning national audit lays the foundation for trust and trust in the functions of society. The Swedish National Audit Office's mission is to review what the state's money is spent on, how it is accounted for and how efficiently it is used. By carrying out independent audits, public transparency and understanding are strengthened and good use of the common resources promoted. The draft governance structure presented today in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (KU6) means that the former three-tier management is replaced by a regime with a national auditor. Both the National Auditor and a National Auditor will be appointed directly by the Riksdag. The emphasis is on clarity. In this way, the internal work of the Swedish National Audit Office will be further strengthened and improved. The starting point is clear: An authority that is well-being is also a guarantee of good work. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like It has been discussed since the Swedish National Audit Office was introduced in its current form the pros and cons of having three independent working and independent national auditors. It was in December 2018 that a parliamentary committee was convened on behalf of the Riksdag Board to investigate the management structure of the Swedish National Audit Office. Like some members of the KU, who are here in the Chamber, I myself was involved in this investigation. The assignment was to unbiasedly investigate the Swedish National Audit Office's management structure without limitation to previous proposals or any specified numerary and to present a proposal for a management structure for the Swedish National Audit Office with proposals for constitutional regulation that are necessary to implement it. That is the basis of the report. I have taken note of the dissenting opinion of the Left Party, which Jessica Wetterling also expressed here, and I can understand to some extent the arguments put forward on the basis of the reservations. They were also the subject of discussion in the investigation, but when weighing up the pros and cons of the matter, I see the most advantages of the pending proposal. The three-part management structure that was previously prescribed means, as I can see, a risk of internal tensions in the organization. It turned out not least in 2016, when three national auditors suddenly became one after sudden departures, illness and other things that created an extremely unclear and difficult situation. There have also been frequent exchanges of national auditors since the agency was created. The evidence that has now been produced shows that the agency is currently functioning well, but that the organisational form contains risks that mean that the agency is not guaranteed a stable function in the longer term. A clear Head of Authority is a way to strengthen the Swedish National Audit Office's opportunities to work both internally and in outgoing communication. The arrangement with a single national auditor elected by the Riksdag, who shall be the head of the agency and responsible to the Riksdag for the review of state activities to be carried out in accordance with the form of government, is the model that we highlight. In addition, there must be a Director of the National Audit Office, who is also elected for the assignment by the Riksdag. It shall be the deputy of the national auditor and shall be able to manage the day-to-day administrative management of the authority under the responsibility of the national auditor. The Director of the Swedish National Audit Office should also be able to take care of and decide on audit matters and answer for them before the Riksdag. On the question of audit independence as well as the terms of the assignment, the position of the executive will be equivalent to that of the auditor. The term of office of the Director of the Swedish National Audit Office shall be seven years, and it shall coincide with that of the National Auditor. Obstacles to re-election shall not apply. Madam President, I would like As mentioned, independence is crucial for a continued high level of credibility for the Swedish National Audit Office. The recruitment process of national auditors shall be free from party political considerations. A strong and well-functioning foundation in the Riksdag is also an important prerequisite. The direct link to the Riksdag is secured by the Parliament's advice for the Riksrevision. This Council has been set up for some time, and it is regularly reported to the KU by its President from each meeting held in the Council. The guiding principles of the Swedish National Audit Office's operations are openness, independence and professionalism. Based on these in a way self-evident but for confidence and security crucial concepts, the new leadership will be formed and further developed.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-30	Madam President, I would like A strong and independent review of the government and its authorities is an important foundation of our democracy. The Swedish National Audit Office has, with its constitutionally protected independence, with its review reports to the Riksdag and with the tasks that give them in principle unlimited access to public administration transparency, a unique and central role for the parliament's control power and therefore also for our ability to demand responsibility. It is also about public transparency on the whole. The requirements for both the national auditor and the audit as an authority are, of course, high, and the responsibility is very great. The fact that the audit has a management structure that works well, is effective and helps to facilitate this important work is of course crucial for the results of the Swedish National Audit Office to be adequate. The conditions for carrying out a good and independent national audit need to be as good, stable and clear as possible. Ever since the establishment of the Swedish National Audit Office, the issue of the management structure has repeatedly come up for discussion and investigation. Several changes have been made since then within the existing management structure with the three-part leadership. For example, after the 2008 investigation, an effort was made to change the data descriptions that each of the national auditors has to try to reduce the negative consequences of the three-part leadership, but still retain the benefits that I believe we all agree on. The advantages expressed have been, in particular, the broad competence, collegial exchange and mutual support. However, both in 2008 and in the 2018 survey, it was noted that despite the changes and despite the work that has been done, it has improved, but the disadvantages of the three-part leadership still outweigh. So the disadvantages are more than the positive benefits I mentioned. It has been felt that it has been difficult to reach agreement, that there has been too little decision-making competence and unclear decision-making and responsibility. The agency has also been very resource-intensive in terms of both the organisation and the time needed. As has been said, efforts have been made to counter this in other ways within the existing management structure. It has had some effect, but not good enough. That is why we from the Moderates, and I am pleased to say a large majority in the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, think that the proposal and decision on only one national auditor instead of three are very good. We also propose, as has been mentioned, that there should be a deputy national auditor who will be given the title of Director of the National Audit Office. It shall be primarily responsible for the day-to-day administrative management of the Authority and, where necessary, shall be able to go in and lead and be responsible for audit reports. The Director of the Swedish National Audit Office shall be able to decide independently in these reports, but shall also independently initiate review reports in cases where the Auditor of the National Auditor would consider himself to be a jerk. There is therefore an important control function and an important complement in the proposal to have a deputy national auditor. In order to satisfy possible and unjustified concerns that the proposals would fundamentally change the independence of the Swedish National Audit Office, I would like to mention that both these roles and the authority as a whole are subject to the Riksdag and of course not under the government that they are examining. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-40	Madam President, I would like In connection with the report KU6 The management structure of the Swedish National Audit Office and in the light of the well-founded investigation that has been undertaken for this purpose, I would like to share a few words. Since the new proposed organisation includes only one national auditor instead of the previous three-tier management structure, it is important that the new organisation remains non-political and impartial. The Swedish Parliament's Board of Directors has stated in the investigation carried out prior to the change in the management structure that a single national auditor cannot possess the same breadth of experience and insights as three equivalent persons have. However, as the investigation has presented, there are several possibilities for a national auditor to make it possible to extend their decision-making documents. In addition to the proposal that the National Auditor be obliged to consult his immediate employees, the latter also has others to support. One example is the Parliamentary Council for the National Audit Office, which consists of members of the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee. This is, of course, positive, as a certain degree of certainty is given in the fact that the national auditor who will now be working on his own consults with other competence in this area. The fact that there are several members with whom the National Auditor will work is also appreciated, as it increases the chance for continued unpolitical and impartial work. In particular, it should be stressed that the dialogue with Members must not allow the Council to give instructions to the national auditor on what may be examined. The Council shall also not give instructions as to what shall not be the subject of an examination. In the event that the national auditor has declared himself or herself, the Director of the National Audit Office may decide to initiate an audit. This, too, is something we welcome, as it reduces the risk that the legitimacy of a review may be called into question. On my behalf and on behalf of the party, I would therefore like to thank the Members and the rest of the Swedish National Audit Office's investigation for its good work. I hereby support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-RgYuT8q8b5r785czjLMzsU	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in KU's report No 6 on the management structure of the Swedish National Audit Office. The proposal provides the Swedish National Audit Office with a new management structure which means that the Swedish National Audit Office is led by a single national auditor who is head of the Swedish National Audit Office and is responsible for its activities before the Riksdag. Furthermore, the Riksdag will elect a Deputy National Auditor with the title of the Director of the National Audit Office, who will be able to take care of the day-to-day administrative management of the Agency under the responsibility of the National Auditor. In order to be elected as Director of the National Audit Office, the same formal requirements apply as in order to be elected as Auditor General. Election of a Director of the National Audit Office is prepared by the Constitutional Committee, and such elections are valid for a seven-year term of office with the possibility of re-election. The Riksdag may separate a Director of the National Audit Office from the assignment only if he or she no longer fulfils the formal requirements or if he or she has grossly infringed his or her obligations. The Director of the Swedish National Audit Office's primary task is to manage the day-to-day administrative management of the Authority under the responsibility of the National Auditor. The National Auditor determines the tasks to be performed by the Director of the National Audit Office. As regards the constitutional task of the Swedish National Audit Office to review the activities carried out by the State, the National Auditor shall consult the Director of the National Audit before deciding to start an audit. The National Auditor may delegate to the Director of the National Audit Office to carry out audit matters, in which case the Director of the National Audit will decide independently how the audit is to be conducted and the conclusions of the audit. The Director of the Swedish National Audit Office is given access to contacts with the Riksdag in the same way as the National Auditor. Similarly, the Director of the National Auditor may not have any employment, assignment or activities that may affect the independence of his or her position. The National Auditor is appointed, in the same way as the National Auditor, unpolitically and impartially by the KU. The whole of the work that has led to today's decision presupposes that the KU lives up to the responsibility of dealing with this unpolitically. The committee proposes, with the support of the right of initiative under Chapter 9. Section 16 The Parliamentary Order a consequential amendment to Section 1 of the Act( 2019:109) on Security in the Riksdag and its authorities. The committee recommends, Madam President, that the draft law amending the parliamentary order be adopted in accordance with Chapter 8. 17 § 1st paragraph 2nd sentence government form. According to this provision, the Riksdag can adopt the main provisions of the Parliamentary Order only by a decision of at least three quarters of the voters and more than half of the members of the Riksdag vote in favour of the decision. The committee proposes that the amendment should enter into force on 1 April 2020.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-55	Madam President, I would like The general welfare is something of the crown jewel in the Swedish model that we Social Democrats have not only designed and built up but also, perhaps more than most, want to protect, develop and strengthen. Schools, care for the elderly and healthcare that we receive as needed and that we pay together according to our ability creates security, social security and development throughout Sweden and for all social groups in our country. It provides a good start for children and young people into adult life and working life. It provides support and help when we have it most difficult and need it at its best. Together with the other services of municipalities and regions, this joint welfare commitment is crucial for Sweden as we know it. Such a commitment, Madam President, must of course also be financed. This is being done today, above all, by municipalities and regions taxing their citizens. But the state also provides large resources and also ensures that the conditions between municipalities and regions are levelled out. After many years of insufficient state aid and insufficient equalisation, not least for the small municipalities in sparsely populated areas, we have since Stefan Löfven took up political direction. We have gone from the major tax cuts to the major welfare efforts. During the last parliamentary term, 35 billion more were invested in the welfare of the state. It has produced results. Over 100 000 more people now work in welfare businesses – more than 30 000 more only in school, where knowledge results are now improving. Madam President, I would like What has been done is necessary and good, but will not be enough for what is now ahead of us. Until 2030, i.e. within a ten-year period, Sweden's population over 80 years of age is expected to grow by over 50 percent. This is, of course, due to the fact that the 40th-century litter where the first people now turn 80 is a record generation. At the same time, the large 90th-century generation is now in childbearing age, so the proportion of children in the population is also increasing. So those who need the essential services of welfare will be very many more. This is a major challenge for our municipalities and regions. The increase in the number of children and older people will require considerable investment in common welfare not only today but for many years to come. More and more people will simply be at the ages where care is most needed and most expensive. Our elderly have the right to good care and care. Those who have paid taxes during a long life and built much of this crown jewel, the welfare society Sweden, should of course be able to trust that the welfare is there for them too. In the same way, the big kids must now get the best possible start in life with a good and equal school, so that everyone can get out in life and reach their full potential. This demographic development means that municipalities and regions need more resources. If there is no doubt. Therefore, through a broad collaboration in the Swedish Parliament, we have now secured at least 20 billion more in general state contributions to welfare during this term of office. Since last autumn, however, we have also seen a slowdown in the economy affecting the local government sector here and now. That is why we have announced an additional 5 billion extra for welfare already this year, on top of the reinforcements already in the 2020 budget. We shall deal with this within the framework of an orderly budgetary process – in our amending budget, as it should. So our proposal means more than twice as much money for welfare as what the opposition is proposing, as well as money produced and decided in an orderly process involving long-term, security and order. Madam President, I would like As a social democrat, I am always delighted when parties want to give more money to welfare. However, I know that temporary one-off investments do not build long-term security. And it is precisely long-term security that is needed for the local government sector to be able to meet the major challenges that we face. In order to ensure welfare, the long-term perspective of such an important commitment as children's school, citizens' health care and care for the elderly must be met. To build schools, retirement homes and health centres, and not least to train and hire the tens of thousands of nurses, nurses and teachers needed in the coming years, stable conditions and long-term answers are needed. Then short-term political games that are the basis for the action of the opposition parties are not good enough here today. The Social Democrats will continue to put welfare first. Not only this year, next year and the following year, but in many terms of office in the future, as older people are growing more and more over many terms of office in the future. To meet this challenge, we have also created a welfare reserve that can now be used to meet the demographic challenge with an increasing number of older and more children. When we turned the large deficits in public finances into surpluses, we created room for welfare efforts. Sweden is better equipped than others, with muscles strong enough to guarantee a good school, health care and safe elderly care in the future even if the economic development in our surrounding world would deteriorate. Madam President, I would like Now, if welfare is to be this good and expanded this much it will take a lot of resources. Even if we are in a good position, tough priorities will be required. Then it is not possible to do as the parties in the right-wing conservative bloc who are constantly proposing lower taxes instead of welfare investments. If you protect your welfare, you cannot, like the Moderates, break up health insurance with another 10 billion in savings that ultimately affect your welfare. Labour market policy cannot be broken as it is most recently done in the moderate budget – and as the Moderates proposed even more of last autumn. This means that the municipalities will have new costs for support for their livelihoods, which means that tax revenue will not grow at local level and that they will not be able to supply the skills needed for these important activities. Nor is it good enough to vote against proposals for a stronger levelling-up between municipalities with good conditions and municipalities which, due to sparseness or an older population, find it more difficult – something that the Moderates did just a few months ago. Madam President, I would like As the opposition now engages in a short-term political game, smashes an orderly budgetary process and destroys the long-term prospects for citizens, businesses and municipalities, we choose not to play along. In the context of an orderly budgetary process this spring, we will present EUR 5 billion in general reinforcement to the local government sector – more than twice as much as the opposition today – while safeguarding the order that served Sweden so well and which ultimately forms the basis for the long-term financing of welfare and thus ultimately for the security of citizens. Only by raising our eyes to the long-term perspective can we really tackle this big challenge and develop and strengthen welfare. By providing the local government sector with long-term information, it will be possible to expand well-being as strongly as it will be needed. So we give the opportunity to plan to hire tens of thousands of new teachers, nurses and nurses. This is how we build a stronger society and a safer Sweden.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-71	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and therefore also for the approval of 2 1⁄2 billion in favour of welfare. The most important thing first. That was my main message when we stood here last autumn and discussed the government and support parties' budget. The most important task of the government must always be to put prosperity and security first. That's the most important thing. That is also how we Moderates prioritised in our budget. There we invested SEK 9 billion more than the government and support parties did on general state grants to municipalities and regions. Why did we do this? Well, we see how the core tasks out there in welfare are now being squeezed. They are being pressured by demographics, by a very high level of immigration, by a declining economic cycle and by the fact that Sweden now has the lowest growth rate in the EU per capita. It does not provide the tax revenues that municipalities and regions would need. Madam President, I would like We Moderates prioritised in our budget the most important first. We said no to free years, that people should actually be able to get paid to be home from work. We said no to entry deductions because we have tried it and know that it is an inefficient employment subsidy. Instead, we invested in what is most important for taxpayers and most important for Sweden: welfare and security. We did so at the same time as taking important steps towards growth, full employment and reduced dependency on benefits. You can do both and at the same time. Madam President, I would like Our budget did not win this time, but I have ever since pointed out to the government that they should present an additional amending budget with more money for the welfare and justice system because the health, school and care of our elderly are underfunded. The justice system as well. But we didn't get a response. Then we moderated the matter into our own hands. We announced that we are going to do this ourselves. We presented a rescue package for the welfare and justice system. Then what happened? Well, then the January parties woke up. It was acknowledged that welfare was underfunded. Then they promised to shoot at SEK 5 billion this summer. I welcome the awakening. I think it's very good. But the Moderates, Left Party, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats also saw and stated that it was not enough. Why should a nursing home in Norrköping, which I visited just a few weeks ago, have to resign nurses if we can instead ensure that they can stay? That is why we four parties have moved on with the budget that we are now going to decide on today. The result is more resources for welfare. They will be used in different ways in different municipalities and regions, because the needs are different. But the needs are there. If you want to, the teachers can become more in Örebro. If you want, the nurses can become more in Gävleborg. The nurses can be even more in Västra Götaland. Above all, I believe that this money will be useful by preventing some of the savings that have been started. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals are not up to this today. Instead, they want to invest taxpayers' money in free years and entry deductions. This is a message that is good for Sweden's taxpayers. Let's stop there for a little while and take it another time. There has been talk of unholy alliances, I have heard at the end. But this is the agreement of the January parties in its purest form. The Social Democrats will therefore today say no to more money for welfare. And the Center Party and the Liberals today say yes to the free year. Madam President, I would like We will probably hear the January parties wriggle today and try to justify saying no to this welfare money. Fredrik Olovsson from the Social Democrats has already accused me of political games and budget chaos. It's not gambling, it's not budget chaos. This is pure money right into welfare. The Center Party will say that we are now raising taxes on entrepreneurship. No, Madam President, we are not raising taxes here in today's decision. Liberals have previously said that more money is needed for the judiciary. Absolutely, it does. That is why we invested four times as much as the government in the judiciary and police in our budget. Liberals are welcome every day of the week to work with the Moderates on more money for the judiciary. But the fact is that the Liberals, the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party actually invested more in free years in the autumn budget than they did on the police. And what will the Green Party say? We will see, but I imagine it will be said: It is not a free year! Well, Karolina Skog, it's called a free year. Madam President, I would like Today is an important day. I'm happy today. A majority in the Swedish parliament, the opposition, has gathered around what is most important for Sweden. We are now ensuring that welfare activities receive more resources so that you do not have to make these savings around Sweden. That is our most important task. Madam President, I would like Like I said, I'm happy. But I am also surprised that four parties are still saying no to this money.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-88	Madam President, I would like When Elisabeth Svantesson talks about welfare, it hurts after all. In their budgets, the Moderates propose substantial savings, which entail a significant increase in costs for municipalities. These do not of course speak of Svantesson, but they are there anyway and always tend to return in new budgets. Nor does Svantesson mention the EUR 5 billion that the government will allocate to municipalities and regions in connection with the spring budget, but only the EUR 2 billion that will actually result from this operation. In addition, the Moderates have, in a very short time, deviated from two important principles of the Swedish budget process. A few weeks ago, they chose to abandon the reservation ban when they tried to vote down the plastic bag tax even though it was included in the budget. Thus, the Moderates left behind a practice that has been in place since the 1990s crisis. Today, the Moderates will take new steps to undermine order. Even today's action is clearly contrary to the spirit of the budgetary process and the fiscal framework. The argument that Elisabeth Svantesson is using now that they are initiating an extraordinary amending budget is becoming rather weak because we have shown that we can use the usual budgetary process to present more than twice as much money as what Elisabeth Svantesson says in the speaker's chair today. It shows that the system works if you want to and if it is not about political games. The question is why the Moderates choose to break the orderly process if it is not a short-term game. How will Sweden become better by the disorder Elisabeth Svantesson creates? Why do the Moderates leave the budgetary order that they have previously protected?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-92	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats should be ashamed of themselves today. So the Social Democrats say no to welfare money and yes to free years and entry deductions. That is what this discussion is about, and that is what we are going to decide on. It will be a little ridiculous when the chairman of the Committee on Finance goes to the defense of plastic bag tax. This debate is not about the very ill-considered plastic bag tax, but about more money for welfare. It is not about budget chaos or political games either. During the autumn and after Christmas I have visited many welfare activities around the country and talked to nurses, teachers and preschool teachers. The statement is clear: more resources are needed. If the Moderates had not taken this initiative together with the other opposition parties and pushed for more money for prosperity, it would not have been 7 1⁄2 billion this year. I am proud and pleased that we are now implementing what we said in our budget last autumn. It will come to the country's nurses, nurses and teachers. At the same time, I am very surprised at the incomprehensible fact that the Social Democrats in Parliament today will not vote in favour of more welfare money.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-97	Madam President, I would like We will put forward much more money and vote through much more financial resources for welfare than the Moderates do, and that is the case every time and every year. We are also not making major cuts to important social functions, which mean that these costs increase and move into the municipalities' budgets and thus push out other important resources in the welfare sector. It cannot be ignored that the Moderates break an orderly budget process with only a few weeks apart and fail to finance their proposals. Last time this was up to date, 2018, the Moderates chose not to do so. Instead, they wrote that if the Riksdag amends parts of the budget decision afterwards, it can have far-reaching consequences for the Swedish economy and the political system. Then there was order but now political play. What are the consequences of political games in the long run? Does this mean that welfare activities will be able to use much more resources in the future? Will municipal councillors and managers in the operations feel that now it is calm and safe, now we dare to move forward? No, of course not. A large number of municipalities say that what is happening today is not important to them because they need long-term answers, which they do not get from hopeful majorities. That's probably why party colleagues to Elisabeth Svantesson in, for example, Järfälla, Solna and Sollentuna do not rediscover their financial perspectives. This is not surprising, because if you are to build a retirement home you want long-term rules and conditions. But there are not the Moderates today, and that is a big change in Swedish politics.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-102	Madam President, I would like If the municipalities do not need the money, I do not think that the January parties should put EUR 5 billion in the spring budget. But we all know they're actually needed. As chairman of the Swedish Parliament's Finance Committee, you should keep track of the Budget Act and know that the Riksdag can present an additional budget. Otherwise, of course, we would not have done it. There's a lot of need out there, so it's not a political game. We can promise Sweden's citizens that we will continue to fight for increased levels of state grants that come out to Sweden's retirement homes, schools and preschools. This can be trusted, because politics must do what is most important first, namely ensure that welfare and justice have resources. In addition, a policy is needed to increase tax revenues. They don't do that with a break-in and a break-in. There is a need for a different policy, a bourgeois policy that favours entrepreneurship and work. Sweden needs it. If the economy is to grow, reforms are needed – reforms that the government and the supporting parties that sustain the government are unable to come up with. The Moderates can be trusted. We will make sure to increase growth and distribute it where it is most needed. Taxpayers should also know that there are now four parties in opposition who have a majority in the Swedish parliament and are pushing for these much needed resources. A tip to the January parties is that one cannot present reforms in the Swedish parliament that lack support, although we have a budget law and orderly processes, which we shall continue to have. You have to be sensitive to when Swedish voters say no to a free year by a majority in the Riksdag. The Swedish people do not want a free year where you can actually be at home and get paid.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-109	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. This matter has, for obvious reasons, been rather mediated, and in one of the interviews I have given in this regard, I have said that I am pleased that the opposition has awakened to life and realised that it is actually quite potent. For a long time, at least the entire previous term of office, the Swedish Democrats were entirely alone in acting as opposition. December agreement, January agreement – to be honest, how do you think it has gone? The whole idea we have had, not least from the centre-party side but also from the Minister for Finance and others, that the minority should have some sort of freedom through the House on the budget bill is a delusion. There is no constitutional support whatsoever for this starting point, on the contrary as soon as possible. What the majority is now doing is entirely constitutionally viable. You can have exactly what concerns you want in terms of substance and substance, but you cannot have any constitutional reservations. The financial authority is with the Riksdag, not with the government. That's it. It is also a delusion in that it does not understand that the opposition too has an interest in pushing its policies through. Of course, a functioning opposition will take every opportunity to do so. I cannot look my constituents in the eye and explain that we failed to push through our policies because we had to take into account the emotional life of a number of ministers and a certain substitute party leader in the Center Party. We too have a duty to our voters. As far as substantive policy and the content of the report itself are concerned, more could have been done and could have been done better. But with that said, if this is the lowest common denominator and if this is what is possible to gather a majority for, we in the Swedish Democrats have no problem at all in contributing our mandates in order to achieve this. On the contrary, we are glad that we can help. We may not be able to resolve this, but at least we will ease the increasing economic crisis in the country's municipalities and regions. In this connection, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the parties and parties involved who have made this possible. Madam President, I would like I have been asked what impact this might have on the January agreement. I don't know, and that's not my concern either. I didn't sign a January deal. However, if you have signed a bad agreement with poor reforms which, moreover, lack parliamentary support, you cannot be upset when someone else comes and puts an end to it. Madam President, I would like It is fascinating that, quite exactly three weeks after the current state budget came into force, the government led by the Minister for Finance said: "Oh, here we may need to spend some money. It is a good thing to start to see the seriousness of the economic crisis in the local government sector. However, one might imagine that this should have been seen before decisions were taken on the budget, not three weeks after it came into force. Didn't you see this coming? Madam President, I would like Furthermore, there has been some speculation, as it sometimes tends to do in politics, whether this can ultimately lead to the President starting to sound again or to re-election. The party secretaries of the Social Democrats were even in the media and threatened to resign. I cannot say that I have been sleepless at night over this threat, but with that said: Let the Swedish people vote on your January agreement! Do it! If you believe in it and stand for it, you should also be prepared to face the electorate with it. Let's hold a new election! We can certainly do that. Finally, Madam President, in the past few weeks we have had another stabbing analysis from our dear Head of Government. It is unclear what time in the order. Stefan Löfven – this intellectual giant – has explained to us that the widespread and unflowered racist Swedish hostility, which mainly affects our children and young people, is due to tax cuts. How one can arrive at such an established, corrupted analysis at all is beyond my understanding. To think that someone feels compelled to abuse an innocent person because of its Swedish ethnicity and also urinate in his mouth because of dissatisfaction with tax policy is so corrupt and also so horribly rude to all children and young people who have fallen victim to Swedish hostility. But if that were the case, the Prime Minister should be happy today with all the rhymes and reason. In fact, what we in this House are going to do this afternoon is stop a tax reduction. It is certainly a completely meaningless one, but it is still a tax reduction. Instead, we spend more money on welfare. Allow me to doubt whether Swedish hostility will end in connection with this afternoon's vote. No, Madam President, Swedish hostility does not depend on fiscal policy. It depends on the government's migration policy. Don't flatter yourself!
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-121	Madam President, I would like After the Swedish 90s crisis, several conclusions were drawn on how to build a long-term stronger country. It was about structural reforms, a more efficient economy, a stand-alone Riksbank and tough steel baths to fix the mouth for lunch in Swedish welfare. But it also meant that we had a completely new budget order. It considers it self-evident that we are putting wholes against wholes and not treating the budget as a pickpin where hopeful majorities can agree on temporary initiatives and priorities. There have been a number of departures from this scheme in recent years. The Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats made breakouts in 2013. They were severely criticized for this by the then alliance parties. Magdalena Andersson then spoke words that she has had to eat on several occasions after that. She said that it was not the opposition's role to pilot state budgets through parliament. Although there have been previous departures, the budget on which we will vote this afternoon is undoubtedly the most flagrant departure from the Swedish budgetary order which has been in force since the mid-1990s. We have a heavy responsibility. When the dust has settled after this small episode, we must fundamentally consider how a reasonable Swedish budget order will continue to work. If we continue in the direction of the key, when with hopeful majorities we can make different priorities – low taxes, high expenditures, halting ongoing investments after decisions taken and so on – we create a situation where we all become poorer and where the Swedish long-term and stability have to pay. The parties behind this initiative now have a very heavy responsibility to tell them how they really want it. How's that going to work forward? This responsibility rests not only on those who are now behind this supplementary amending budget, but also on us jointly. We must agree jointly on the basic rules of the game. It is clear that what has been an important part of the Swedish budget regime – not only budgetary law but also practices and agreements that everyone holds – are now being sidelined in a way that we have not seen before. It is also clear that we need to think about where the limit is. How irresponsible can one be in a finance committee without violating the rules we have? Here we need to make a backup. We need to do this job. Madam President, I would like All parties in this House agree that we need to strengthen the local government sector in the short and long term. Unfortunately, it is speaking for the Swedish political climate right now that we are happy to make a conflict out of something that should have a deep consensus. With great ease it could have had a deep consensus. When the Moderates told us earlier this year that they wanted to inject EUR 3 billion into the municipalities this year, we replied and put a figure on what was deeply known earlier, namely that during the year we would spend money on the local government sector. The bid then made, following a negotiation between the four January parties, was EUR 5 billion. Now, for some reason, we are going to vote on a net addition of just under 2 billion. It's unclear why. The local government sector does not benefit from this twitchiness and short-termness. It's hard to see who actually benefits from this. But now that's what's on the table. Madam President, I would like The responses of the January parties come in the spring amending budget and the spring bill. I would therefore like to refer formally, on behalf of the Protocol, to the specific opinion supported by the Center Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party. This is a very unorthodox order. In formal terms, we are not taking part in this decision. Our response will come later within the framework of the budgetary arrangements that must apply. It is important to invest in the municipalities. It is in our municipalities and regions the core of welfare, and it is quite clear that efforts must increase in the coming years. But it is not the number bingo for this year that is the important thing for the local government sector, but it is the long-termness of the initiative, so that you can plan. What has happened in recent months mainly means that municipalities do not know what to plan from outside; they do not know which hopeful majority gets the last word. When the dust has settled after this episode, I hope that we will jointly be able to present long-term planning conditions for the coming years in connection with future regular budgetary processes. It is the forecasts for what happens in 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024 and the announcements about the years that really change the planning conditions of municipalities and can really mean that small schools are not closed down, that more nurses are being invested or whatever is needed in our different municipalities and regions. It's long-term that's what's important. What we are now discussing is something quite different. Madam President, I would like It was refreshing to hear the Swedish Democrats' Oscar Sjöstedt, or at least a sentence he said. He didn't sneak at all with the fact that you stop a tax cut. Elisabeth Svantesson stood here in the speaker's seat just now and accused many different parties of wrangling. But the biggest loop we've seen in recent weeks is well unwillingness to call a tax increase a tax increase. An active parliamentary decision that, compared to the alternative, increases the Swedish tax charge for the current year – how can it not be a tax increase? A tax increase is a tax increase. A parliamentary decision that raises the Swedish tax charge is, of course, a tax increase. It is something of a upside-down world when we have a process here in Parliament where the Social Democrats stand for a lower tax charge than the Moderates. I think neither S nor M are particularly comfortable in that situation. But in a situation where the whole sea is storming, it is only to be noted that the liberal center is stable and continues to think that low tax rates are better than high tax rates. It is a very comfortable position to be in, and this position will of course remain. Although a temporary majority has now been formed to stop tax cuts for jobs and entrepreneurship, this work will continue, because that is what Sweden needs. We need to lower taxes on jobs and businesses. What was previously criticised for being far too broad, namely the reduction in employers' contributions for the country's young people, is now being narrowed down and targeted at those who we want jobs in this country: young people who do not come in and newcomers who need to get their first foot in. But when the investments and tax increases are directed at that particular group, it is clearly also wrong – then it is too narrow. This argument is used to being heard from the left. A tax cut is always wrong. But it is a new and unfortunate development when Moderates and Christian Democrats go into this left rhetoric and are against tax cuts regardless of how they are designed. Madam President, I would like The issues are changing. They come and go. But I think you should have a number of basic principles to guide you in developing your policy. One of the guiding principles of the Center Party and its signatories is that we should have order in the fiscal framework and in the budgetary process. Otherwise, we'll all be poorer. The second principle is that we should provide long-term information that provides planning conditions for municipalities and regions, so that they can make their efforts. The third principle is that we must say no to the left-wing rhetoric that the only way to increase spending on welfare and strengthen it is to stop tax cuts and increase taxes on jobs and businesses. The Alliance government showed that it is possible to reduce taxes on jobs and businesses while at the same time investing in welfare. With regard to all three principles, we now have a majority in Parliament on the wrong side. It's a bad day when it's like that. But hopefully, Madam President, there will be better days ahead.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-136	Madam President, I would like I fully share Emil Källström's picture – we must have a long-term approach to politics. That is why it was so incomprehensible that the January parties in the autumn budget did not spend the necessary money on welfare. After just three weeks, the January parties, under pressure from the Moderates and others, admitted that welfare was actually underfunded for this year. It is because of the steps we took that more money is now coming up. Why didn't they come this fall? I say this in terms of long-termness, which is what is needed. What we called for in January was an extra budget. Of course, more is needed both in the spring bill and in the autumn. This was the shallows. In fact, I find it difficult to understand the criticism. It is the January parties that do not ensure that the municipalities and regions receive the money they need in the long term. Madam President, I would like In terms of tax cuts and increases, you can rely on the Moderates. We lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. What we are doing today is not raising taxes. The Moderates and Christian Democrats received a budget in the Riksdag for last year. That's where we lowered the taxes for everyone who worked. We reduced the tax on all pensioners. We made sure to raise the roof of the RUT. We removed the payroll tax for everyone employed as pensioners. This is an effective policy. The problem with the entry deduction, Emil Källström, is that it is inefficient policy. It's been tested. We've tried it together. It was expensive and gave very few jobs. That is probably why the Center Party as the only party in the Swedish parliament now stands up for it. Although we do not agree on this, we agree on certain things. For example, we have long agreed that the free year is a very bad idea. That people are paid to be at home and that other people who go to work every day should pay for them is not good for the work line or growth. Now it is a majority here in Parliament that throws that proposal into the trash basket. Then the question is: will the Center Party ensure that it remains there?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-142	Madam President, I would like With regard to the proposals now blocked by an active parliamentary majority, I imagine that it would be unwise to put forward exactly the same proposal again. Then I think about the same thing would happen. It would be a tiring dance both for us who work in this house and for all those who look at Swedish politics and hope that we learn lessons from what is happening. I have some counter-questions for Elisabeth Svantesson. Let's hear again how this doesn't raise taxes. No, but this is a parliamentary decision that, compared with the alternative, increases the Swedish tax charge. Can Elisabeth Svantesson agree? If we do not make that decision, if we do not go along with the line that Elisabeth Svantesson is behind, it means a lower tax charge than if we do what Elisabeth Svantesson wants. Then you can wiggle as much as you want, but I'm so simple that I call a tax increase a tax increase. A parliamentary decision that raises the tax is a tax increase. Can we agree on that, Elisabeth Svantesson?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-144	Madam President, I would like Emil Källström can call this entry deduction anything. But it is inefficient, will not increase employment and is in pure Swedish pig-expensive. In a couple of years it will cost taxpayers SEK 6 billion and not lead to more jobs. This is not a general tax reduction. It will meet some employers who hire, for example, students who graduate from high school with top grades and get a job one summer. Those kids get jobs anyway. I think that the Center Party should come home to the bourgeois family, sit down with me and others, with us in the Moderates, and discuss a tax reform that really benefits entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and jobs. Sweden needs such a reform, for Sweden now has the lowest per capita growth across the EU. The Center Party supports a government that lets this happen and even holds this government under its arms. The Center Party supports a government that contributes to declining growth, that does not maintain security and that does not ensure that welfare receives the resources it needs. The Center Party voted against the Moderate and Christian Democrats' budget last autumn. That's where we cut taxes for everyone who works and for all pensioners. We also reduced the tax on all companies with an older employee, which we know is effective. I don't know if I think your logic works, Emil Källström. I will always stand up for bourgeois politics, and bourgeois politics is to ensure that taxpayers' money is best spent and lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship in general. I always will. But the starting line is bad politics, and it is not bourgeois politics. It's center politics.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-148	Madam President, I would like I have to say, I'm surprised on the verge of being astounded. Elisabeth Svantesson now spoke about the initial deduction, which is therefore a reduction in employers' contributions, which costs taxpayers money. It is pure left rhetoric, as we usually hear from the Left Party and not infrequently from the Social Democrats. But that tax cuts cost taxpayers money, we do not usually hear that from moderates. It's surprising on the verge of astounding. The problem for Elisabeth Svantesson right now is that she's not really talking to her friends. While Elisabeth Svantesson claims that this is not a tax increase, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party speak clearly. They are open to raising taxes and choosing to give priority to them. The same can be seen with regard to the very important perspective that was a moderate question of salute, namely order and order in the fiscal framework and adherence to budgetary law, practice and the agreements that have been made. Elisabeth Svantesson is also not talking to her friends. Here we see many old, stable moderates who wonder: What does our party really do? It's Anna Kinberg Batra. It is our current President, who set a completely different line in the Budget Process Committee a few years ago. One can only wonder what Anders Borg thinks about this. It is quite clear that the Moderates depart from old principles in order to frame, for example, the Center Party and the current government. You may want to, but there must be a limit to the principles you sacrifice for that ambition. A moderate party that raises taxes and undermines the framework is a moderate party that I honestly did not think I would see this term of office. It's surprising on the verge of astounding.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-152	Madam President, I would like Does anyone know any municipality where cuts are not carried out or are planned? During the days we can read about how the cleaning is withdrawn for the elderly in Lund and the tariff is planned to be increased. Care and service should be reduced, but it should also be more expensive. The outing for the elderly in Sandviken will be reduced, settlements will be closed in Nordmaling and I do not know how many municipalities I have read about that plan to reduce the staffing of the elderly, especially at night. Insecureness is growing and stress is also growing – for the elderly, for the relatives and for the employees, who even before the savings ran too fast. They are now going to put in an additional gear, which actually does not exist. We hear that the number of students in Örebro is rising but that the number of teachers is going to decrease and that student assistants are being pulled in around the country, not least in Kiruna where two out of three will disappear. What schooling should be like for those students does not seem to be the priority. We hear that disabled people in group homes will have fewer staff, that assistance will be withdrawn, that addicts who receive care and support will be withdrawn, that cancer care will be saved on and that employees in the care will run even faster and soon be expected to troll with their knees. The funding of care, school and care is about what society we want to live in, how we view each other and what responsibility we take for each other. It is about solidarity, cohesion and community. A strong welfare builds a strong society with trust in each other and with hope for the future. But the policy that has been pursued gives us a fragile society where the reefs are becoming increasingly clear and where the employees of welfare are increasingly carrying the underfunding on their shoulders with worn-out bodies and with the stress burning in the heart, brain and body. The demographic changes we've been talking about for decades are here now. Then we have a government that, like so many before it, prioritises tax cuts for wealthy people in Danderyd, Vellinge and Österåker. We need more employees in welfare, not less. Instead of taking responsibility for their cutbacks and priorities, the January parties are now trying to blame us for using the tools we have to try to fix the breaks in welfare that they have created. I am genuinely interested in knowing what you thought in the January parties when you negotiated the budget for this year. You were well aware of the planned cuts. You had even included them in your forecasts. Yet you chose to ignore it. The first thing the Social Democrats used to say about the welfare was not so important anymore, because now it was tax cuts that were planned. The school was not so important anymore, as the Liberals used to say. There were 100 million to the school and 6 billion to the wealthy in Danderyd and Österåker. The center that at least used to talk about how the whole country should live, ignored the welfare of the countryside and how it would survive. Instead, they chose to reduce the tax. The outcome of these negotiations has come to our attention, and many of us have felt it on our skins. The cuts just sweep across the country, while many of us remember how Emil Källström stood here in the speaker's chair bragging about how much taxes were lowered and how proud he was of it. However, I have heard nothing boasting about the cuts that have now been caused and that a lot of people feel every day, in their everyday lives. And although there are many of us who have tried in the autumn to get the Social Democrats to recognise the unsustainable nature of the budget they have presented, they have been zealously clinging to the policy of cutting back. Madam President, I would like The Left Party, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, has produced the supplementary amending budget that we are debating now. It contains much-needed 2 1⁄2 billion extra to care, school and care. This corresponds to the salaries of approximately 4,500 nurses or 3,500 teachers. It has also meant that the January gang had to go out and promise another EUR 5 billion to the welfare of the amending budget that is coming this spring. We note that it was not something they did with joy. I think we all remember their drumming faces when they stood at the press conference and said that there will be 5 billion. They could have added: to this we are obliged. So our initiative has meant that 7 1⁄2 billion extra comes to welfare. It's both necessary and good. At the same time, we all know that more money is needed already this year and even more in the coming years. But what the January parties are planning for is, unfortunately, further cuts, because they have no funding for welfare. On the other hand, they seem to have little funding for additional contributions to the upper class. There will now be grants for flower watering, for refurbishment in the luxury apartments of Östermalm and for companies that will drive the shirts to the dry cleaning. Further contributions for a group in society that is already very well-off, while the nurses in the care of the elderly will be allowed to burn out their bodies to an even greater extent. The fact that the Social Democrats cannot vote for more money for welfare but instead defend ineffective reforms as the starting point of which they have previously been keen critics says a great deal about where they have ended up politically. I think there are many of us who remember when Mikael Damberg stood here in Parliament and barked at the previous deduction: this costs as much as four jobs! We could have got four jobs for the same amount we got a job for! Today, the Social Democrats are abstaining from voting for more money for welfare because instead they want a deduction that they have been critical of for many years. The removal of military taxes, i.e. reduced taxes for those with the highest income in the country, took precedence over welfare. Then we had to act. We saw what cuts, what breaks, that led to. It is our responsibility to act for the welfare and as an opposition party. Fredrik Olovsson, chairman of the committee, talks about the need to provide information. The Social Democrats have told us here today: they are not going to vote for more money for welfare. Fredrik Olovsson also talks about the need to give long-term answers. Let me say that the Social Democrats have done the same. They have given the long-term message that welfare will continue to be underfunded, because they have no funding for welfare.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-171	Madam President, I would like I must first commend Ulla Andersson for a strong speech. It was a real ester standing in the speaker's seat, with different voices and gestures. Should this be taken further, I think that the next time Ulla Andersson is in the speaker's chair we will see some sort of puppet theatre. I would also like to strongly deny that I or anyone else on that podium would have stood there when we presented the five additional billions to welfare. That press conference can be seen afterwards. It is fake news to claim that there were four drummed representatives standing there. I would like to highlight this most strongly. My question to Ulla Andersson is relatively simple: what is the largest and most, 5 billion or barely 2 billion?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-174	Madam President, I would like I can understand that it hurts a little bit to admit that we did not really want to bring another 5 billion to welfare but rather want to debate how it was with the mood that day. I think maybe we can have some different interpretations of it. But what was seen at the press conference was by no means four happy people, but rather what was signaled was: to this we are obliged. This initiative has led to 7 1⁄2 billion coming to welfare so that Nordmaling may not have to close the housing units for the demented elderly and Kiruna does not have to pull in assistants for the children in need of extra support. I think it's very good. Without us, this money would not have been added – I think Emil Källström will have to admit that. In addition, I actually think it would be nice if you took responsibility for the cuts that your policy has meant. You like to brag about how much you lower the tax. Last fall you stood here and said: We have reduced the tax by 13 billion net – oh how good it is! But I can't hear you say: Let's make sure that there are cuts in almost every municipality in the country. I understand why, because who wants to be responsible for such a policy? Perhaps the Center Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, but not us.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-178	Madam President, I would like I think, Ulla Andersson, you'll have to sharpen your imitation of me. Ångermanskin has to come out somehow. I didn't get an answer to my question, and maybe it was expected. But I can answer the question: 5 billion is considerably more than 2 billion. There is the difference between responsible parties and those who are now embarking on the game of doing what can be achieved with hopeful majorities – the lowest common denominator. I don't think anyone except Ulla Andersson is impressed by what you in the Left Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats concocted. It was just barely 2 billion. We have made sure it is at least 5 billion, and that is a good thing. There is a long-term perspective. Moreover, this temporary majority – the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – has no long-term perspective whatsoever. There is no authority to give any single information about what happens after the end of the year. It is up to us responsible parties to take this forward, and we are happy to do so. It is now spreading a narrative that it was in January we found that more money needs to be spent on Swedish welfare. This too is totally false. I myself have said since October that we need to refill. That is why you have amending budgets. Things are happening; you have to look after reforms. At this point, we need to put forward more money. This was obvious long before this unholy alliance and the majority came into existence. It is clear that this work will continue, no matter what you and the Swedish Democrats are cooking up. No one is impressed with what V, SD, M and KD are doing here today. On the other hand, it would be impressive if more of us were able to take on long-term responsibility. That's what the Center Party will do.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-184	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not going into dialects. I don't give a shit about them, so I'll skip it. We are actually debating a budget that you were involved in putting forward. It showed that there would be major cuts in welfare, and we have seen them. Eight out of ten municipalities are planning cuts. Four out of five municipalities plan to save on the most vulnerable in society: the disabled, children who suffer ill, people with substance abuse problems. This is what your policy has led to. You knew about this in August, as well as you knew about it in January. You acted in January because the political pressure became very tangible. It was difficult to escape the responsibility you had and still have for these cuts. You have still not prevented all the cuts planned and which will be implemented. We're trying to fix these reefs with the tools we have at our disposal. To take responsibility is to try to prevent the cuts your policy has caused. I think it is an obligation we have to the elderly in need of home care, to the assistant nurse who is toiling and stressful and never enough, to the children in school who lose their teachers, to the addicts who do not receive the care and support they need and to the disabled who do not get the staff they need on the accommodation where they live. This seems to me to be taking responsibility. We use the tools we have at our disposal in accordance with the current regulatory framework that actually exists. Yes, it may sting in the Center Party that welfare gets more money. But I actually think that most people in this country are very happy about it. At least I am.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-189	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson is disappointed with the Social Democrats and thus subscribes to a tradition from 1917 or something similar. This can and will certainly often continue to be the case. We are a party that is pragmatic and tries to implement our policy even in a very difficult parliamentary situation. It took several months for Sweden to have a government, and for us it was very important to form something that can be stable and take Sweden further without, for that reason, giving a decisive influence to a racist party like the Swedish Democrats. I am surprised that Ulla Andersson does not see that picture and what the situation really is. As Emil Källström said, we will present a bill containing more than twice as much money as Ulla Andersson is now talking about – what should be done here today and be so beneficial. We have also guaranteed long-term funding during this term of office, with at least 20 billion. I'm hoping for more, because I really want the welfare to be better. I want us to expand it as more people grow older and more children are born. But if you're gonna get through this, you have to be long-term. There must be a government base to deliver this. It cannot be solved by hopeful majorities, where the Swedish Democrats are the tongue of the wave. If this is to be solved, it must of course be done in a completely different way and with a completely different long-term perspective from what it means to play under cover with the Swedish Democrats.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-192	Madam President, I would like I notice that Fredrik Olovsson's mood is going down. I understand that it can be difficult as a social democrat not to vote for money for welfare. I don't think I'm the only one disappointed in the Social Democrats. I can live with that. In fact, I think that very many of your own members are also right now, when you as Social Democrats do not press the yes button to prevent cuts that feel around the country, from Malmö up to Kiruna. I think Fredrik Olovsson has also taken note of them. Being pragmatic is also a matter of realizing that you do not have a majority in Parliament but may have to negotiate with other parties in order to get what you want through. At least I think that is pragmatic. We tend to try to negotiate, and we have also offered to negotiate with you, for example, with this budget. But you've turned it down. Fredrik Olovsson asks me if I do not see what the situation is. Yes, I make that very clear. I also know that this is something that the Social Democrats have been striving for since 2012, when Stefan Löfven was elected. What you wanted was to become a middle party that would cooperate with the Centre Party and the Liberals, and you knew exactly what economic policy you would get. Liberals are the party which, in its tax policy, has the skewedest distribution policy of all political parties. The Center Party usually competes to cut taxes the most and boasts that they themselves stand for that policy. You Social Democrats knew exactly what you were doing. That is what you wanted, and now you have economic policy. I want more money for welfare. You have given priority to tax cuts. That's what reality looks like.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-197	Madam President, I would like In reality, we will vote for a budget of 5 billion more, while Ulla Andersson today can present barely 2. That's what it looks like in real life. I also think that Ulla Andersson feels that what she is doing now does not really carry and that it is something that gnaws and quakes a bit – to join forces with the right-wing conservative bloc, to negotiate with the Swedish Democrats via proxy and to become a tool for the Moderate political game, which is primarily about preparing the way for a right-wing conservative government. It is a constellation that, on its agenda, will have aggressive tax cuts, large sales and new liberalisations leading to deterioration in the welfare of ordinary people. It is this political building that Ulla Andersson is now helping to polish and build on. We see this. Jimmie Åkesson and Ulf Kristersson enjoy it. But why is Ulla Andersson so naive?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-200	Madam President, I would like To be naive is to put your head in the sand and believe that you have a majority when you don't have it? We've offered to negotiate. That offer stands. It is we who are wave masters in Parliament. We'd be happy to take part in making more money for the welfare. But the fact is that your policy, as it is now planned, does not even add up to half of the contributions needed to meet today's quality of welfare. That is the reality. That is the message you have given. I'm deeply sorry, because it wouldn't have been necessary. You can finance welfare if you dare talk about changing tax policies. Low cards can't be laid then. You have to face up to that, too. I understand that Fredrik Olovsson is stressed and under pressure. The situation in the Social Democrats is that way. But I didn't expect you to do dirty things the way you do it now. Fredrik Olovsson knows very well that we would never negotiate with the Swedish Democrats, not in any way. I'm in the mood for that rhetoric. I can understand that in anger and under pressure you can say things that you don't really mean, but the disappointment is still great. For how can one as a social democrat fall to that level, and how can one not vote for more money for welfare? I really do wonder, and I actually think that there are also many Social Democrats who wonder about this.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-204	Madam President, I would like Last autumn, SKL presented its report on the financial situation of the municipalities. Some ninety municipalities were expected to go in deficit, and the news in the country was not about how municipalities would work for better elderly care and a better school, but how the suit would be adapted to the harsh situation. Another tax increase or reductions were needed at the heart of welfare. With this as a fund, the January parties made no additional contribution to the municipalities. The resources that were given were those that the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, had already announced a year earlier in the budget reservation for 2019. Around Sweden, patients are faced with long care queues – in the emergency room, to specialist doctors and to surgery. Around Sweden, students are faced with cuts in school, sometimes in a school that already had too few teachers to begin with. And around Sweden the elderly are faced with cuts, tough needs tests and the announcement that there is no room at the retirement home. In fact, we should all be able to agree that healthcare, school and care for the elderly should be at the top of the priority list. But with the budget passed last autumn by the January parties, they showed that they are unable to prioritise. Instead of more staff in the care, we received an initial deduction. The school was first changed for development time, which is what we are going to call the free year right now. Also in the older areas, the January parties made cuts, as if it were not enough for 180 municipalities to do so. That is why we are here today debating an extraordinary amending budget with billions of dollars in contributions to welfare. Madam President, I would like There are certainly many who find it strange that the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party can agree on budgetary issues. They're absolutely right about that. However, the fact that we have been able to agree only underlines how deeply miscalibrated and mispriority the economic policies of the January parties are. It is an ambitious answer to questions that no one has asked and a non-resolution to the many problems that exist. Madam President, I would like There are many challenges and problems that we politicians need to address. But a few goals must be met first: that care can be provided on time, that the school is of high quality and that the elderly who need accommodation receive it. The priorities that should have been set were replaced by an agreement with 73 points imposed on each other by four parties, for which no one really wants to take responsibility. The bill for this political vigour went, among other things, to welfare. In fact, I believe that the January parties have understood this for themselves, for just a few days after the Committee on Finance began work on the supplementary amending budget that we are now debating, the four governing parties went out and announced new money for welfare – just a few days after the initiative in the Committee on Finance and only twenty days into the new year and the new year's budget. Surely there must be some kind of record of how quickly it can fail one's own policy. Madam President, I would like Thanks to the action of the Committee on Finance, the January parties announced a contribution of SEK 5 billion to welfare, and thanks to the fact that we various parties have been able to come together and agree on an additional SEK 2.5 billion, a total of SEK 7.5 billion is now being added to welfare. In this context, the addition has been condemned as too small, small money in terms of the total activity of the municipalities and as a drop in the sea. I think that criticism is completely absurd. Firstly, this is about strengthening municipalities so that notice and dismissals can be counteracted and that municipalities can instead focus on improving the quality of their core business. Secondly, each billion in addition involves resources for approximately 1 150 teachers or 1 500 nurses and for the regions of 440 nurses. For an individual municipality, our contribution can therefore be the difference between an extended and a shortened care queue, or that the care staff at the retirement home can get a couple of employees instead of a few fewer. For my municipality of residence Gothenburg, the addition means that 480 new teachers could be hired. For the Västra Götaland region, this means that 550 new nurses could be employed. For the Gothenburgers it means better quality in school and health care, and for teachers and nurses it means more colleagues to share the workload with. The money can be used well around the country. I am proud that the Christian Democrats have tabled this proposal together with the Moderates and the Left Party, and I am pleased that this is now the committee's proposal, which I call for, Madam President.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-216	Madam President, I would like We agree that welfare needs more resources. We will spend more than twice as much, 5 billion, later this year in an orderly process. That's exactly how it's supposed to happen. Twice a year, the government submits proposals for amending budgets – in good order. The Parliament is, of course, also involved in this. There's nothing going on anywhere else. This is where decisions are made. But 5 billion is undeniably more than 2. In addition, we have guaranteed at least 20 billion more during this term of office. There is no doubt that welfare is important to us Social Democrats. I would like to return to the budgetary process itself. When the budget proposal for 2020 was debated a few months ago, the economic-political spokesperson presented the Christian Democrats, Jakob Forssmed, to the Christian Democrats' view of the budget process. After a call from the Left Party to break things out of the budget together, Forssmed said – I'll read before from Parliament's minutes: I also defend our budget process in Parliament. There is no breaking out of individual things. I think it is a good order to take things in context. It is a good order, which has served Sweden well. ..................................................... It's been a few months now. Could Hampus Hagman possibly tell the House's Minutes what has changed since then? Why do the Christian Democrats no longer think that the good order that has served Sweden well should apply? We have also shown that with that order we can make more than twice as much money for welfare as what Hampus Hagman spoke about in his speech.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-221	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is quite clear that the January parties went out and announced additions to welfare as a consequence of the fact that the parliamentary majority had expressed its willingness to make an additional amending budget. To say otherwise is completely absurd. There were only four days between the fact that the initiative in the Committee on Finance began to be discussed and the parties went out and announced this. Fredrik Olovsson must realise that it is the Riksdag that owns the fiscal policy. The Parliament has the same opportunity to make additional amending budgets if the majority of the Parliament considers that this is justified. In a situation where a large part of the municipalities around the country are facing major cuts, where people have to wait months, perhaps years, on the right care and where students are not entitled to the education they need, it is justified to make changes in the policies being conducted and to do so in a way that is financially responsible. Every penny is financed by making changes to the wrong priorities that the Social Democrats and the other January parties have advanced. This is entirely justified, I think, Madam President.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-223	Madam President, I would like Earlier it was said: I defend the budget process one in the Riksdag. There is no breaking out of individual things. It should be taken in context. It is a good order that has served Sweden well. It no longer serves Sweden well. That is what we think, despite the fact that we are presenting much greater efforts for welfare than is on the table today and which comes in the amending budget. Why is this important? Is this all about formality? Is that the only reason why we care about the budgetary process? No, of course not. It is also about the consequences in municipalities and regions, where it is now said that this money has less impact precisely because it is being produced in this way. You cannot trust this kind of information, with hopeful majorities and one-off efforts for a year. It cannot be the basis for building a retirement home or training and hiring more nurses. Of course, you have a much longer time perspective and planning horizon than that when you deal with local politics. Therefore, this process plays a role in what effects you can expect in society – for people, for those who need help and support and for those who work in municipalities and regions. But that, of course, is also of great importance in terms of how Sweden can be governed, how we can be long-term and how the information given by this House can actually be taken seriously by people, by citizens, by companies and by municipalities and regions. If the Christian Democrats have a new approach to principle, compared to the one that Jakob Forssmed described last autumn, it would be good to have it clarified here, because that means that the Christian Democrats somehow choose sides on these important long-term issues.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-228	Madam President, I would like The new attitude that exists in politics is that the Social Democrats have gone from protecting and building welfare in the past, in the 20th century, to negotiating their policies instead. It is traded for, for example, subsidies, as the initial deduction is, and for free years, which the Green Party has pushed forward. That is the news in Swedish politics. Policies that the Social Democrats have been fighting for a long time, which they fought as late as in the election movement in 2018, are now driving through and funding themselves. I wonder if Fredrik Olovsson does not really think it is much better to spend resources on welfare than on this type of subsidy, for example, although I note that Fredrik Olovsson does not think it is a good idea today to present a budget that means just such reinforcements. It seems that Fredrik Olovsson himself is not aware that his own party did exactly this in 2013, when they broke out parts of the main budget and went forward with them. In this situation, the current Minister of Finance, as we heard here earlier, said that it is not the task of the opposition to pilot through budgets in Parliament. That's what she said when the Social Democrats were in opposition. In the same way, it is not the task of the opposition now to pilot the government's budget into Parliament. This is also news in Swedish politics. This is a view that the Social Democrats have had in the past.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-232	Madam President, I would like Sweden has major problems ahead of it. This applies in particular to two areas. One is welfare. Many municipalities struggle to bring the economy together in a situation where they have more elderly people. In many municipalities, there are a lot of young people who should be able to go to school. Some municipalities also have many new arrivals. This makes it difficult for municipalities to make the money enough. And that the core of welfare should always be prioritised is an important part of the Swedish welfare society, with which we can feel very safe. The second problem concerns security, or rather the insecurity that is growing stronger in Sweden. It is linked to youth robberies, older people who are robbed in their homes and bombs and shootings around Sweden. This creates a sense of insecurity. Crime is growing into Swedish society, and crime is becoming an increasingly important part of people's everyday lives. This is a very worrying development that makes Sweden weaker and makes individuals feel insecure. Madam President, I would like People should be able to feel safe and be able to trust in their welfare. That is why the Liberals, together with the cooperation parties, will spend more money on the judiciary and on welfare – 5 billion extra on welfare and 750 million on the judiciary in the next six months. We send a clear signal to the judiciary and the municipalities and regions that manage welfare that new money will be able to make important efforts to increase the security of our society. I am therefore very surprised that the amending budget that is now on Parliament's table contains zero crowns for the judiciary. Not a single crown extra to the justice system! When the Moderates, Left Party, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats negotiate a budget, there will be zero crowns to the judiciary. Not a single crown. Not 100 million, not 200 million, but zero crowns for the justice system. In a situation where we see bombs and shootings, where older people are robbed in a horrendous way in their homes and young people a knife is knifed to the neck, and getting rid of the jacket is the addition to the justice system zero crowns. I'm amazed, surprised and a little disappointed. We have chosen a different path, and that is why in our special opinion we point out that in our amending budget in a few months' time we will be making more money available to the judiciary and the municipalities. It is important for the judiciary to be able to expand their activities so as to increase security and break the development that we are currently seeing. Madam President, I would like I am also surprised and, in fact, amazed at another part of what is now at the table of Parliament, namely that some of the 2 billion that are now to come to municipalities and regions are being financed by taking money away from welfare. SEK 500 million is removed from the teaching assistants, a reform aimed at teachers being able to be teachers. In a situation of lack of teachers, this reform aims to enable those who are educated and skilled teachers to spend all their time teaching the students and not have to spend a lot of time on administration or running out the corridor to pick up students who are late for class. But instead of teachers in their professional role being able to get help in doing this, that reform is now halved, which means that municipalities around Sweden that have planned to expand their activities during the year with more teaching assistants will not be able to do so. With clinical precision, you beat a saving towards the expansion of teaching assistants. I'm amazed and surprised. Madam President, I would like We in Sweden have had a system in which we have managed the budget as a whole. I think that we all need to reflect and think so that we do not end up in a situation where hopeful majorities agree on increased spending one day and reduced taxes the next day, thus tearing big holes in our common budget that means that future generations will have to pay the price. We need to calm down and make sure we have a process where plus and minus goes together. It has served Sweden well to have an order around the budget that means that we do not push the costs forward to future generations. Madam President, I would like There is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that municipalities and regions need more money. I welcome that. The Liberals are working with the Center Party and the government on this in the budget, and we will put this on Parliament's table in the spring in a few months' time. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus on the need for more money for the municipalities and regions. I am concerned that in this supplementary amending budget there is no new money for the judiciary. This concerns me in the situation that Sweden is currently in.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-247	Madam President, I would like This government has failed a lot. Welfare has failed. It has failed to maintain security. It has failed to ensure that there are enough police officers in the streets and squares of the country. Now Mats Persson from the Liberals, who directly supports the government, is astounded and surprised that he has negotiated for some money for justice and welfare. Last autumn, when the Moderates put their budget on Parliament's table, we invested four times as much in the judiciary and the police as the government did – four times as much! Mats Persson was involved himself and invested more in the free year than in the police. I think it is very good that the government seems to be starting to wake up, to spend more money and to admit that the judiciary has been underfunded. If Mats Persson really wants more resources for the judiciary and the police, he can in the autumn budget or already in the spring bill – I can guarantee that – vote on the Moderates' budget. We will ensure that both the welfare, the judiciary and the police have all the resources they need. Now, however, it was Mats Persson and not me who voted in favour of the release and against more resources for police officers in the autumn budget. A majority, and it is not a leap, but a steady majority, now says no to the free year. My question is therefore the same as for Emil Källström : Will Mats Persson and the Liberals ensure that the proposal for a free year remains in the trash basket even after the Riksdag's decision today?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-252	Madam President, I would like We note, of course, what the majority conditions are with regard to the free year, so we have to deal with that. I am still surprised, because when the Moderates told us in mid-January that they wanted to put an extra amending budget on Parliament's table, they said they wanted to put 21⁄2 billion on the judiciary. I thought that was very good, because the Liberals said already last autumn when we negotiated that budget that we are now taking the first steps to extend the judiciary, and we will have to do more during this term of office. When the Moderates came up with the 2 1⁄2 billion more proposal to the judiciary right now, I basically thought it was a good proposal. That is why, of course, I am very surprised that there is zero SEK in the proposal that Parliament is now considering. Of course, I find it a little strange that you have such a high rhetoric of 2 1⁄2 billion and then it becomes zero. Already in April, we will be sending 750 million to the judiciary. This autumn we will return to you with even more proposals to extend the judiciary. We are doing so as a party within the framework of budgetary cooperation. We are happy to do so together with the Moderates and other parties on those issues where we do not find a majority together with the government. Together with the Moderates, we have done a number of different penalties, and we will continue to do so. Within the framework of budgetary cooperation, we will ensure that there is more money for the judiciary. It is our entry into this to create security for people, and so we also find it a little strange that there is now zero crowns to the justice system.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-257	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mats Persson for the advertising of the Moderates' budget, which we presented in January in the Riksdag Finance Committee. But why did Mats Persson and the Liberals not vote for EUR 2 1⁄2 billion for the judiciary? That's what we wanted. Why did Mats Persson not vote in favour of the Moderates' budget last autumn, where we invested four times as much in the judiciary and the police? Because one holds a government led by Stefan Löfven under his arms. It is more important than really tackling Sweden's problems. That is what is strange, astounding and surprising about this. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for your answer to the question of free years. I trust Emil Källström and Mats Persson when they say that the proposal for a free year will not come back here. As I said, there is no hopeful majority, but a stable majority in favour of a no-free year. Återigen: Mats Persson is always welcome to discuss proposals to strengthen the judiciary and make sure that the police get more money, that we can have more camera surveillance and that the courts and the Prosecution Authority get good money. Now it is not we who are in government, but it is Mats Persson who supports the government that sits in a budget cooperation. However, he is always welcome to discuss these important issues with me. I'll give you a brief answer on the question of teaching assistants. This is an important issue that Mats Persson raises. What we are doing now is strengthening regions and municipalities with a total of 7 1⁄2 billion. We use some of the resources that went to teaching assistants for general grants – because the municipalities themselves want it and because this money has not been spent. I always think that we should do what our representatives of the municipalities say, whether they are liberal, moderate, left-wing or social democrats, and they call for less targeted contributions and more direct. Finally, Madam President, I am pleased that the Parliament will today decide on 2 1⁄2 billion for welfare and that we are now getting rid of the free year.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-263	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson asks why I do not vote for the Moderates' proposal, because it would mean more money for the judiciary. However, we have no such proposal at Parliament's table – the Moderates have backed off. You said 2 1⁄2 billion, Elisabeth Svantesson, and now it's zero. You have withdrawn that proposal, so it does not exist. I think it's weird. I would rather vote on my own proposal, which will mean SEK 750 million for the judiciary in a situation where I am very concerned that young people are being humiliated in the youth robberies we see. I am very concerned about the elderly who do not feel safe in their homes because they are robbed by people calling at the door. I'm very concerned about the bombings and shootings we're seeing right now. In this situation, we will be shooting at SEK 750 million already this year, and we will be spending even more money in the autumn budget to create security in Sweden. Madam President, I would like As far as teachers' assistants are concerned, this is an important reform for teachers to be able to be teachers. It is an important reform in order that, in a situation where we have a lack of teachers, we can ensure that every trained teacher can spend all his time teaching students in the classroom. To halve this reform does not make the situation in the classroom better for Sweden's teachers. We think it is an important reform that we need to see more of in Swedish politics so that we can make the school work better and so that our children learn more in school. I note that there will be zero to the judiciary when the Moderates negotiate with the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-267	Madam President, I would like When over a hundred municipalities say they need to pull down on the school, we don't cross our arms. Nor do we do that when welfare is forced into harsh priorities that put people at risk. No child should have to pay the price for the economic challenges faced by the country's municipalities and regions. We see the economic challenges that municipalities and regions are facing, and we are working long-term to remedy the situation. There is no quick fix; no temporary money will solve the welfare challenges. Today we are seeing growing economic gaps in our country. As one of the tasks of welfare is to compensate for this and give everyone the opportunity to develop to their full potential, the pressure on schools, social services and security systems will increase. More older and more children will also increase the pressure. This will mean that more hands are needed in preschools, schools, care and care. In view of this, which gives serious weight to the issue we are debating here today, I cannot say with enough emphasis that our welfare does not deserve to be treated as a pawn in a political game. Since we see the difficult situation that municipalities and regions are facing, we have increased government subsidies in several rounds. We will also continue to do so during our term of office, together with our cooperation parties. This is not something that will be resolved with temporary additions. We have already announced an extra 5 billion for municipalities and regions in the spring change budget, and this is a message that stands firm over time. We will also present a safety package. Unlike the announcement made by the opposition today, we can guarantee that the money we announce will remain in future budgets. As former municipal councillor, I know that predictability is A and O for all municipal activities. To be able to plan the operations for the long term is crucial for good governance in welfare. Our municipalities and regions must be able to trust that the budget that goes through the Riksdag is valid throughout the year and that they have long-term prospects. This long-term attitude is undermined by the actions of the opposition on this issue and, in the long term, also undermines confidence in the Swedish parliament. It is extremely serious that municipalities and regions, as well as businesses and private individuals, cannot rely on the budget passed in Parliament for the coming year. The Moderates have previously stated that an extra budget should be justified by the fact that something extraordinary is happening in the outside world, but now it is enough with unpredictable political whims. An example that clearly shows this is the money for the teaching assistants. It clearly shows that the opposition's game affects those who work around our schools every day. The schools, both municipal and independent, that planned to recruit teachers' assistants to give teachers peace and quiet and the opportunity to focus on education in the classroom – what are they going to do now? The conditions that prevailed when the current school term began to be torn away today. It's not serious. For independent schools in particular, it is very uncertain what this will mean for their economy. Madam President, I would like Our well-being faces major challenges in both the short and long term. Many activities in welfare are screaming for staff. During the last term of office, we were environmental partners and increased the number of employees in welfare by more than 100,000, but the needs are even greater than that. We in this House broadly agree that more money is needed for municipalities and regions, but that is not enough. A major challenge for municipalities and regions in the future is to recruit and retain staff with the right skills. The fact that the welfare sector can continue to be staffed by competent employees is crucial for us to continue to enjoy world-class welfare. One consequence of the action of the opposition in this House today is that the announced period of development will not be introduced this year. That is unfortunate for a number of reasons. Above all, this removes the carpet for people who today may have a job where skills requirements will be increased. If they do not receive the right training, they risk losing their jobs. Several trade unions signal that this applies to quite a few of their members today and that they need a chance to get the right education. Those who want to change in the middle of life and perhaps start working in a shortage occupation are deprived of that opportunity, thereby depriving themselves of the opportunity to find competent employees. The issue of skills development in welfare is one of the issues that we in Parliament must work very actively on in the future. I can accept that it is argued that the very time for development is not the right answer to this reform. However, it is easy to ridicule this proposal, while that welfare actually needs is a serious answer to the question of how to solve the manning of welfare. When the Moderates resort to the unusual grip of pushing up campaign buttons, they do so to fight education – up on the barricades against lifelong learning! It's not impressive. Me and the Green Party believe in increased opportunities for individuals to change during working life. You should be able to get support while you are taking an education in order to keep your job or take a step further in your career. The debate would benefit from hearing what the newly formed rainbow opposition has to respond to this challenge. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have previously conveyed the self-image that one is a party that stands up for order. Agreements should be held, and on important issues one should not engage in short-term political games. The budgetary process shall be tight and practices shall be followed. But these days, it's all over there. The Moderates seem to focus on new ways of creating chaos and confusion. The energy agreement was abandoned. There was a coup through the state budget, even though there was no government. The state budget began to tear down the appropriations a few weeks after it came into effect. Now the Moderates have also begun to reserve for taxes announced in the budget. It may be formal, but the fact is that the Moderates are acting to create holes in government finances by lowering revenue. This does not befit a party claiming to be State-supporting. I have to say that I find it extremely difficult to understand how it can be a political driving force to create confusion and instability. In addition, we know that, in the end, the Moderates will give priority to tax cuts, which will be financed by kicking people out of health insurance and by cutting down on the Employment Service and slaughtering environmental and climate policy. We know that, because when the Moderates and Christian Democrats put a budget through in 2019, the major tax cuts were put first, at the expense of investments in welfare, among other things. The fact that the Moderates now all of a sudden want to portray themselves as the chief protectors of welfare is squeaking falsely. Madam President, I would like Our welfare is a guarantee of a decent society. It is secured by long-termness and predictability, not through political play and budget chaos. The Green Party has always given priority to what is common to us, and we will continue to do so.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-285	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. This is a case that deals with a change in electricity law. As always in case of legislative changes, do so with caution and carefully consider the consequences of a legislative change in the short term and in the long term. This is where we and the government disagree. We believe that the consequences of a change have not been sufficiently reviewed before the adoption of a law on electricity that will enter into force on 1 April. That is why we have reserved ourselves for the benefit of our exercise. There we clearly point out that the Government has not submitted a legislative proposal to the Riksdag to clarify how it intends to give special investment space to network companies with unused deficits. Madam President, I would like The amendment means that electricity companies must not now be credited with several deficit periods in relation to the revenue framework. As a result, revenues from mostly network charges from previous periods will not be deducted to allow for investments in the current period. We find this unfortunate, because there is a great need for investment in our electricity networks. We would have liked to have looked at the issue more closely and found out whether the new law will prevent important efforts from being made. Madam President, I would like We believe that both the new electricity-intensive industry and the changes that take place when new wind power is being built place great and new demands on our electricity infrastructure. We also believe that the security of electricity supply throughout the country is one of our most important social functions. When this infrastructure does not work and, at the same time, there is a shortage of capacity, we can have major local electricity supply problems. Madam President, I would like Changing laws and tax rates, as the Riksdag is set to do, can have major consequences if it is not done with anticipation and does not carry out a reasonable impact assessment. That is what happened when the tax on cogeneration was increased. An acute shortage of electricity was triggered and the government was forced to create a crisis package. Madam President, I would like That's not how we're supposed to work. A wise parliament and government work proactively. A wise government does not create crises by implementing new laws and taxes in the electricity market too quickly.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-292	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by expressing my support for the reservations contained in the report, but I would also like to point out that the Swedish Democrats have no objection to the proposals contained in the present proposal. On the other hand, it is clear that further adjustments in electricity grid regulation are needed. For a long time, Sweden's electricity supply has been characterised by high quality and good operational security, but this is now under pressure from an increasingly low level of energy availability. The share of weather-dependent power generation has increased in recent years, while bottlenecks have arisen in the electricity grids, resulting in capacity shortages. In our view, a deterioration in security of supply is not an acceptable development for a society that is more dependent on stable electricity supply than ever before. The lack of capacity in electricity networks is all the more evident as a result of the growth of cities without the simultaneous strengthening and modernisation of electricity networks at the same pace. Disadvantaged electricity network modernisation affects both business and households. A general problem that is now found in practice in all licensing in Sweden is too long waiting times; for permits for the expansion of electricity networks they can reach ten twelve years. This is a reality. It is difficult to see which companies are considering investing in Sweden or expanding their business, in cases where investments are required in the electricity grids, which would be satisfied with the announcement that in ten to twelve years' time they can expect to have access to sufficient capacity. I would be surprised if there was a single company that would feel satisfied with those conditions. There is a lot at stake here, and it is precisely these shortcomings that have led to problems for companies around Sweden. Investments have not been made, jobs have not been created and tax revenues have been lost. No one will win on this. Based on the social development that is desirable, it is particularly important to achieve fossil freedom through increased electrification, but this is now in danger of being held back. The long lead times in permit granting processes have been reviewed in the network concession investigation that has come up with a proposal. The assessment is that it would be possible to reduce lead times by perhaps two to three years. This is far from sufficient, but one must also be honest with the fact that it is difficult to cut this further with amended legislation without infringing democratic processes or interference with property rights. Instead, more effort is likely to be needed in the educational mission to increase understanding of the need for investments in electricity grids to increase capacity and maintain operational safety. It is therefore important that the Government urgently returns with proposals for constitutional regulations that allow for the use of deficits attributable to the first regulatory period, provided that the revenues are used for the investments in the electricity grids needed to meet growing demand needs in terms of capacity, security of supply and demand response. Above all, it is urgent that we be able to put in place new electricity grid regulation, which is more favourable to innovation and which provides clear incentives for investments aimed at strengthening operational safety.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-303	Madam President, I would like Electricity networks are a natural monopoly market. As a result, there is also regulation on the revenue framework of electricity grid companies that affects the amount of charges they can charge. The framework applies to four-year periods, and the levels are finally determined by the Energy Market Inspectorate on a proposal from the network owner. This bill relates to this regulation, namely how to transfer unused revenue framework between periods. The proposal is that network operators cannot be credited with the deficit of more supervisory periods when the new provisions of the Electricity Deficit Act in relation to the Revenue Framework are applied for the first time after the end of the supervisory period 2016 – 2019. In other words, under-revenue from 2012 to 2015 should not be allowed to be rolled over to the period 2020-2023. The reasons for the amendment highlight that the legislator's intention was never to be able to accumulate several periods of deficit. The customer perspective is also highlighted, that it can reduce the fee level. The amounts that would otherwise be rolled over are estimated at SEK 28 billion. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats consider the bill largely reasonable. However, we would like to stress in this context how important it is to secure the necessary investments in the network. The question of capacity shows that there is a great need for reform to address these particular problems. The net is in many places old. Electricity network operators need to have room to make the necessary investments. The amount of grid needs to be expanded in order for us to cope with the electricity supply and thereby Sweden's growth and competitiveness. The bill mentions that the government intends to come back with proposals on how network companies will be able to use the deficits from the monitoring period 2012 – 2015, provided that this leads to just increased investments in the electricity grids. In view of the challenges we face, the work needs to be given high priority and to take place urgently. Therefore, in our reservation, we propose that the government should return by September at the latest. The shortcomings in the electricity grid, combined with some changes in electricity generation, have led to delays and socio-economic losses. Business investment has been reversed. Unfortunately, Sweden's reputation as a country to invest in has had a thorn. Skåne and Mälardalen are affected, and more other regions face concerns around the corner. Madam President, I would like It is clear that Sweden needs more comprehensive reforms than those presented so far. The Christian Democrats believe that, among other things, there is a need for a thorough impact and capacity study that, for example, proposes better and faster expansion of the network and reviews current electricity grid regulation, which is in need of development. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-U5JkTN37j5M6Pgjb8DTNNZ	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report 9 Deficit in relation to the revenue framework of electricity grid companies for the 2012-2015 regulatory period. I support the report in its entirety and reject the reservation. The amendment will mean that electricity grid companies will not be able to recognise the deficit of several regulatory periods when the new provisions of the Electricity Deficit Act in relation to the Revenue Framework are applied for the first time after the end of the supervision period 2016 – 2019. It is the Energy Market Inspectorate that will carry out the ex-ante verification of electricity grid operators' revenues from network operations. The ex-ante evaluation implies that the total revenue that a network company can collect from the network business must be contained within the revenue framework. What the government proposes is that network operators should not be able to credit for the deficits of several regulatory periods in relation to their revenue framework. The government has taken initiatives for increased investments in electricity grids and increased regional impact. Electricity network operators have also stated that they will collectively reduce electricity grid charges and increase investments in networks. This is important in order to be able to meet the change that we see coming and the one that is partly here. Madam President, I would like At the same time, work is under way in the Government Office aimed at making it possible to exploit the deficit attributable to the first supervisory period in 2012–2015. This can be done if the money is spent on the investments in electricity networks needed to meet a growing demand for capacity. Today, there is not enough evidence to explain in detail how such constitutional regulation should be designed, but the government returns to the Riksdag with such a proposal. The Government intends to return with a proposal in September 2020. The reserves believe that it is important to come back with a proposal by September 2020, just as the government intends to do.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-316	Madam President, I would like Having listened to all the speeches, this seems to be a cuddly debate, but I might be able to piss someone off. The debate is on the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 9 Deficit in relation to the revenue framework of electricity grid companies for the 2012-2015 regulatory period. This is a change to the Electricity Act, which means that electricity grid companies cannot be credited with the deficit of several regulatory periods when the new provisions of the Electricity Act on Deficit in relation to the Revenue Framework are applied for the first time after the end of the second regulatory period, which is 2016 – 2019. It should be remembered that for the first period, 2012 – 2015, they should be able to use the deficits, but then the requirement is that these should go to investments in the network. I think that is a fair compromise. The Left Party has supported the government's proposal for a legislative amendment, which hopefully avoids usury price increases in the future and that investments in networks are actually made using the funds that consumers pay in. Madam President, I would like Undeniably, greater political responsibility is needed to counter the unfair price increases that consumers are facing today. I am therefore of the opinion that there is a great need for further regulation beyond the marginal adjustment proposed in the present proposal. The electricity market was liberalised a little more than 20 years ago in order to increase competition in electricity supply and lower prices. But what happened? I can see from the facts that liberalisation has not led to lower prices or to greater consumer security. Private electricity grid companies are currently allowed to set very high charges. In addition, fees vary widely across the country. It can distinguish several thousand bucks per year in fee depending on where you live. I think it is unreasonable to have such large differences in network charges that it can now be between city and country, between different regions of Sweden and also between different companies, depending on who supplies your electricity. Raising electricity grid charges not only hit households hard, but also hit industry and, by extension, jobs. In my opinion, greater political responsibility is needed to counter the unfair price increases that consumers are facing today. I believe that this approach should guide the ongoing work to review how electricity grid operators should be able to use the deficits that may arise in relation to their agreed revenue framework. According to the Swedish Energy Market Authority, network charges have been increased by an average of 44 per cent in 2011– 2016– 44 per cent! There are agricultural customers in northern Sweden who have had to endure increases of as much as 64 per cent during the same period. There is nothing to compare with in society that has these price increases. Of the ten largest electricity grid companies' operating profit of EUR 8.7 billion in 2015, a total of EUR 6.8 billion was taken out of nine of the ten companies. It is clear that the monopoly market does not work for the subscribers in any case.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-325	Madam President, I would like Today we will discuss one of the most important instruments a municipality has in terms of planning and building housing smoothly and efficiently. A really good and well-prepared master plan should and should facilitate the continued process that will form the basis for managing the housing supply in the coming years. A master plan sets out the direction of long-term land use and provides guidance for decisions on how to use land and water areas and how to use, develop and preserve the built environment. This means that the master plan forms the basis for, among other things, municipalities' detailed planning and is indicative when the detailed plans are developed. Unfortunately, not all municipalities are in phase. In addition, not all municipalities consider this work to be of the utmost importance. I'm sorry about that. I cannot believe that a municipality can refrain from doing work on the master plan, which makes it easier for the next part of the work. It is really strange that the lack of housing does not lead to this issue being high on the agenda. The number of dwellings completed is far too small in relation to the need. 240 of our 290 municipalities have a housing shortage. This housing shortage affects those citizens who cannot access a dwelling or who are moving to the municipality in question to work or study. The proposal we are discussing today is basically a good one. We try to make it easier for municipalities to keep the master plan up to date. It is an extensive work to be done, and in this way it is possible to concentrate work on the elements of the master plan that it believes are in need of updating. What we Christian Democrats are opposed to is that at the moment the master plan is considered out of date, all planning work should be handled with extended planning procedures. Then you have to think about whose fault is that the master plan is not up to date. Is it the citizen's fault? Is it the entrepreneur's fault? Or is it the county's fault? I'm saying it's the county's fault, and that the council should take the fall. However, with this proposal, it is the entrepreneur who is to take the fall, in that there are longer processing times and delays in projects. The entrepreneur may take the fall even though he wants to remedy a problem that the municipality has raised from the beginning, i.e. the housing shortage. Instead of measures that mean that the municipality has to take the fall, it is therefore entrepreneurs and citizens who are allowed to do so. If there is to be a consequence that the municipality has not done its job, it should be directed towards the person who is able to change the situation, i.e. the municipality. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-332	Madam President, I would like One of my first jobs was as a building permit administrator at Mullsjö Municipality. It is a small municipality with about 7,000 inhabitants but with large plans. I was employed as a building permit manager but worked mostly as a building all-in-all. It was me who called if you wanted to build something, if the neighbor had plans to expand or if a company wanted to expand or for that matter establish itself in the municipality. Already during my training as a construction engineer, I understood that a good and updated master plan was a very important tool. At Mullsjö Municipality it became even more clear. The master plan was a tool not only for me as a municipal official but also for all residents and others who wanted to invest in the municipality. In fact, the municipality also used the master plan to market the municipality: Come and expand here! We've got buildable land. We want to develop these areas. A master plan shows the municipality's willingness to use land and water and the development of buildings needed to achieve a good built-up environment. According to the Planning and Construction Act, all municipalities must have a master plan covering the entire area of the municipality. It may be important to point out here that a master plan is not legally binding. But it is heavy with the long process, with all the consultation processes, it means to make a master plan. A detailed plan, on the other hand, that comes after the review planning, is legally binding and governs in detail how things should be designed. The outline plan is indicative and should outline areas that are suitable for different purposes. The plan is also a statement of general interests, such as valuable natural areas. Major social investments such as roads and other infrastructure will also be included in the long-term plan and in order to know which investments will be made. The municipality must also deal with the state-proclaimed national interests in the master plan. Common issues with other municipalities, so-called intermunicipal matters, must also be addressed in the master plan. And the environmental impact that can result, for example, from expansion must be described in an environmental impact assessment. To become an even better tool, the master plan needs to be developed. That is why today the government is presenting a proposal for a precisely developed master plan. That is what we are here to debate today. The Government's proposal aims to ensure greater continuity in the planning of the survey, that the regulatory framework will support good implementation and that the master plan will make it easier for subsequent planning and review, for example in building permits, which I worked with at Mullsjö Municipality. The Government proposes that each municipality should adopt a planning strategy at the beginning of its term of office. In it, the municipal council will assess whether the master plan is up-to-date and take a position on the municipality's continued work on overview planning. It will replace what is today called a topicality test. The Government hopes that it will be a clearer tool, both for municipal residents and for politicians at municipal level. The Government also proposes amended provisions on the content of the master plan. Clearer requirements for content are intended to facilitate the dialogue between the state and the municipality on the development of buildings. At the same time, it is proposed to remove some of the current requirements in order to make it easier to keep it up to date. It is also proposed to allow for a digital standard for the design of outline plans, regional plans and sectoral rules. We will simply get into the new and use digitalisation as a tool.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-343	For me, both as a municipal official as I was before and as a politician, the master plan is a treasure map. It is a map that depicts the municipality's possibilities and will. It describes where the roads lead and how the municipality will develop, which natural areas to protect and which new infrastructure to build. I am therefore pleased that the Government is presenting these proposals to the Riksdag to develop the outline plan to become an even more exciting tax map. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report and reject all motions.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-344	Madam President, I would like The outline plan is indeed a treasure map, as Emma Hult says. One can think about why not all municipalities look at it that way and why they do not follow through on what they are obliged to do, i.e. to have a current master plan. They should not end up in a situation where it becomes obsolete. My question to Emma Hult is, do you have the same fears as me? If the master plan becomes partly obsolete, the entrepreneur or individual will be affected by longer building processes. If so, what opportunities do we have to put pressure on the municipalities to ensure that the master plan is not out of date? I mean, that's where we're gonna put more pressure on the municipalities. We agree that there should be up-to-date outline plans and that one should not end up in that situation. But I know from experience that not all municipal politicians find it equally interesting, and then you might end up there. My fear is that we are punishing someone else instead of the municipalities.
i-5ZfY3WUhSeWCsV25JRNV66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder, for the question! I think it's a good thing that we're raising the issue that Larry Söder is paying attention to. On the other hand, I'm not so worried. Already today, municipalities have the task of ensuring that they have updated overview plans. I feel that the things that we are now proposing are to be introduced means that the municipalities must comply with this requirement. What we have said is that the work on monitoring plans under way should be completed within the framework of the old legislation. A master plan should preferably be valid for 20 years, but it is clear that you may be affected if you have a ten-year horizon in your planning and investment. However, I think that the most important thing is that the master plan is up to date. If a master plan is revised just after an establishment has taken place, the conditions also change for individuals and entrepreneurs. Therefore, I think it is more important that we ensure that the municipalities have updated overview plans and that the work that is going on ends.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-351	Madam President, I would like Today, however, municipalities already have this requirement. They should do this every term of office, but there are obviously municipalities that do not find it interesting. It has improved, we have got reports about, but it does not really get good. Unfortunately, someone's getting hit. I do not see that we have any sanctions against the municipalities in this way. We try to help and attract them to think that the work should be done, and we make sure that the plans are out of date if not done in time. I believe that those affected are companies and individuals, and I am a little more worried than Emma Hult in that case. I believe that this is hampering housing construction and that we may have a hack into the construction, that is to say that it is going down for a period just because we are introducing this. I would have liked us to have seen more incentive measures against the municipalities in this case. It is they who can influence the situation, it is they who are responsible and it is they who must do the work in one way or another. The fact that you can't get the municipalities to realize that they have a gold mine, which Mullsjö Municipality apparently thought when they profiled themselves, is a bit of a pity. Will we see the government come back with other proposals that will lead to a little more sanctions so that the municipalities will ensure that there are no out-of-date outline plans?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-355	Madam President, I would like As far as motivational measures are concerned, the government introduced one during the last parliamentary term, but it strongly criticised the Christian Democrats. It was a build bonus that made it necessary to have a current master plan. This made more outline plans up to date, but this measure was clearly not something that the Christian Democrats liked. Larry Söder mentioned sanctions, but he didn't mention who. It would be very exciting to see what sanctions Larry Söder would like to impose on Sweden's municipalities in order for them to maintain this. I believe that the proposals we are now putting forward will make it possible for us to see that more outline plans are up to date. Having an updated and up-to-date master plan is, I think, the most important thing for both individuals and companies so that they know what the conditions are. I do not experience the problem as much and I do not have such great concerns. The most important thing is that municipalities have updated and up-to-date overview plans, and this is also the ambition of the work.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-358	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU7 report to be approved. The Government proposes in the bill A developed master plan new provisions aimed at ensuring a better continuity of the master plan. Furthermore, the regulatory framework will support good enforcement and the master plan will make it easier for subsequent planning and review to a greater extent than at present. One of the important elements proposed is that a timely review of the master plan should be carried out within the framework of a planning strategy. This must be done in the municipal council no later than 24 months after an ordinary election for the outline plan to be considered up to date. We Social Democrats believe that an up-to-date and clear outline plan is important in order to have effective planning and construction processes. Therefore, we also believe that a municipality that does not have an updated master plan should not be able to use the simpler standard procedure when drawing up detailed plans. If a master plan is not up-to-date, it is logical that the public should be given a better opportunity to participate in the detailed plan process. An out-of-date master plan does not provide the same support in the detailed planning as it would otherwise have been. The bill also contains an opportunity to complete detailed planning cases based on the conditions that existed when they started. A municipality therefore does not need to do if certain elements of the master plan cease to be relevant during the detailed plan process. Furthermore, we Social Democrats think it is a good thing that it is stated that the basic features of soil and water use should be shown in a map. As the reasons for the proposal show, this is currently being done in many municipalities, and it is a very important function and the basis for clarifying the outline plan. In addition, a land use map is an important tool for dialogue on how the municipality's physical environment should develop. That is why we also think it is a good idea to lay down this obligation by law, when there have been consultation points about the existence of outline plans where the land use map is unclear or completely lacking. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would just like to point out that we Social Democrats are of the opinion that, if the work on further simplification of the PBL is to be possible, it is of the utmost importance that the basic work, as the master plan actually is, is also up-to-date to be useful. As a construction worker, I know that if you mess up the groundwork, you risk the whole house. Madam President, I would like I would once again like to support the proposal contained in the CU7 report.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-367	Madam President, I would like The timeliness and status of the outline plans is an important issue in many municipalities, but in others it is unfortunately not. Sweden's Municipalities and Regions have carried out a survey showing that 45 per cent of Sweden's 290 municipalities have adopted a new or topicality report on a current municipality-wide master plan during the last term of office. Approximately 30 per cent are working on developing a new master plan of this kind. This means that almost 75 per cent of the municipal-wide survey plans in the country are or will be up to date. Is 75% a high or low figure? It depends on how keen you are that the whole country should feel that it is on the train and can take part in the population increase. If as much as a quarter of the municipalities do not think they need a master plan, this says something about the split between municipalities that have a population increase and municipalities that have not had it in many years. Against this problem, Madam President, the building bonus, which we have fortunately abolished, did not help. I myself think it would be better if all of Sweden's 290 municipalities sat with a building need and had current overview plans and construction companies waiting in line to put the shovel in the ground, but that is not how it looks. The Center Party of course welcomes a simpler opportunity for municipalities with outline plans that are older than a term to keep their ÖP up-to-date so that it can form the basis for construction when there are conditions in demand and an economic viability of the construction projects. Financial viability is achieved if, for example, there are increased opportunities to build near-shore, if national interests are kept up-to-date and correspond to the actual needs of different authorities and if housing companies are given the opportunity to write down their construction investments over a longer period of time, when the property values are low. We believe that in many cases the master plan should form the basis for rural development where it is possible to develop communities without any requirement for a detailed plan, but on the basis of the master plan. To be able to allow more construction without any requirement for a detailed plan and to allow more measures without a duty of praise are things that the government is now investigating on proposals from the Center Party. The outline plan should also be allowed to point out how and where a beachfront construction can be realised. Instead of as so far, municipalities will now be forced to keep a master plan up to date through review and requirements for, for example, exhibition. They shall also adopt a planning strategy no later than two years after an ordinary election. That is what the proposal says. This makes it easier and an opportunity for the municipality that has ambitions to further develop its plans. Madam President, I would like It is not a revolutionary simplification that is being decided today. There are certainly points to the proposals that have been made and that we have heard here from Larry Söder about not calling for an extended procedure if the plan in this area is unclear. On the other hand, however, this should be corrected when the plan is being reconsidered by adopting a strategy. Madam President, I would like A master plan that does not have to contain maps seems strange to me as a former municipal politician. As I began by describing, the problems are greater than that. Municipalities with an ageing population, a shrinking economy and difficulties in attracting housing investments or bringing economic calculations together expect far more than a few reliefs in the requirements for keeping a master plan up-to-date. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-378	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that a better functioning rental market has been highlighted as an important part of the January agreement. The Centre Party, the Liberals and the government parties have agreed to introduce a system of free renting, in which the rent will be set free for an initial period and subsequently with the support of a tariff that provides predictability, a high level of property protection and long-term sustainability for both parties. There has been a lack of a model that gives property owners an incentive to think long-term and prefer to build rental apartments and that does not lead to a rapid conversion after 15 years when the presumption period ends. We get a system that gives the individual tenant a negotiating position that you can use for your own part and access an apartment that originally had too high a starting price in relation to how sought after it has been over time. Over time, we will have a system where there is balance and where the market can be allowed to set the rent without giving us excessive rent levels. In accordance with the same principle, a way should be proposed to allow the location and attractiveness of the existing stock to have an impact in order to influence the use value. An independent dispute resolution with the possibility of imposing sanctions on the party to the negotiations that is deliberately delaying, and with a backlog of lengthy negotiations, is something that many welcome. Madam President, I would like I describe this because, in this report on which motions are dealt with in a simplified way, we do not decide on the major issues surrounding the current system of leasing and because these are, in fact, things which, if the will is with all parties, are resolved by negotiation between the January parties and then by means of dedicated and knowledgeable investigators. We would like to see work speeded up and note that the timetable has become tight. For example, no later than 1 July 2021, a new legislation on free renting will be in place. Madam President, I would like I shall now turn to today's main issue, which is the initiative of the Center Party and Liberals to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. Recently, right-of-occupancy associations have encountered situations where board members have more or less hijacked the association in order to gain money. Most examples are in Malmö, where Ida and the housing associations in the Chinese Wall have received a lot of attention. By signing an agreement with rogue companies that have invoiced the association for work that has not been carried out, the association's cash has been emptied and in some cases it has also been able to get over money that the association has borrowed. Of course, for the right-holders affected by this, it has had major and devastating economic consequences. As a partner in an association whose economy is in this way run at the bottom, you end up in a very precarious situation. People are affected when their right-of-occupancy association is hijacked and mismanaged more or less deliberately. Both the security of housing and the private economy can be destroyed by these criminal acts. There is a need for stronger protection against these kinds of events. We are pleased that the Riksdag now supports the Center Party's proposal to strengthen consumer protection for tenant-owners, and we also expect the Government to act quickly to strengthen consumer protection. This issue has already been investigated. Suggestions are available to proceed with. It has to happen now. We can't wait and risk this kind of scam going on. Among other things, a stronger brokerage responsibility is needed, which means that even those who do not have full mastery in reading annual reports and the like can get support from the broker to know what it means to buy in with a share in a tenant-owner's association. We want new and clearer demands to be made on the board of directors and auditors of tenant-owners' associations. We have also proposed, together with the Liberals, a national right-of-occupancy register, and we have a reservation on this which I would like to endorse. A register is needed for the holder or buyer to be able to check that the information about the dwelling is correct – whether the right of residence is pledged, how large it is, where it is located and how it is equipped. Today there is no such register, and it is up to the associations themselves to decide what they want to do. There are various systems for this – cards, loose-leaf systems or computerized ones. The membership list is kept by the Housing Association, and it goes without saying that if you intend to deceive the members of their common capital, you are not so interested in sharing and even less in making this information public. An investigation already 22 years ago proposed the introduction of such a housing register. So it is high time that this was taken on board. Who is responsible for keeping the register, how it should be paid and how a report should be made may be further investigated. But for us and the Liberals it goes without saying that without such a register we will not be able to deal with hijackings and mismanagement, as the committee is pleased to say now that it wants to do. This has been investigated in stages, and the latest investigation also suggests how to proceed with a register that can be handled by Lantmäteriet, where the associations themselves are responsible for entering the data. Why is this now so important? The right of residence is a way of owning together that requires the commitment and responsibility of the elected members and auditors of a board of directors, who are appointed and audited by the members of the association. It is not obvious to everyone what it means, especially if you are not a habitual union man, as many of us in this room are. It is natural for us who have attended annual meetings and participated in the Nomination Committee's work that you should be active and ask questions about what is jointly owned. Unfortunately, however, many younger people and people from other countries do not have this experience and are therefore exploited. In most other countries that do not have a housing market like Sweden – I will not review it further – owner-occupied apartments are the most common form. If you don't own an apartment, you rent an apartment from a person who owns an apartment. Then it is unclear how what is jointly owned is managed. It can look different. We can see that this is the most common model abroad. Here in Sweden, such a model of ownership seems a bit strange. Seven out of ten people want to own their home, and it should be a right for everyone who can afford to realize their home dreams regardless of origin and experience of the tenure forms we have in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The right of residence has great advantages, because it is accessible to many and means that you have a possession protection compared to renting from the actual owner. I believe that ignorance of what rights you have is the basis for people with a weak establishment in Sweden being exploited and unable to stand up for their rights. It is for their sake, for the common consumer, the tenant-owner, the board member, the auditor and the broker, among other things, that it should become clearer what applies. That is why I am in favour of the proposal in the committee's report and of reservation 4.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-399	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 1. The right to housing is a fundamental human right. In order to secure the right to housing, a new housing policy is required in which the state and municipalities take much greater responsibility. Government housing policy was dismantled and liberalised in the 1990s. Since then, housing construction is almost entirely on market terms, which is in danger of being compounded by the Government's January agreement with the notification of the implementation of rents, so-called market rents. The lack of rents that people can afford is particularly great and has created tight housing and difficulty for young and newcomers to establish themselves in society and difficulty in moving to where jobs and education are. Overall, the individual, the labour market and the national economy are adversely affected. We witness every day how homelessness is increasing and how low-income people, young people, families with children, pensioners and new arrivals are affected by the housing crisis. We see how housing shortages limit people's opportunities. We see how it affects the freedom of the individual, the growth of the economy and the development of society. We see how it leads to inequality, increased divides and segregation. For people with a weak financial position, the thresholds to the housing market are high. It is clear that the housing policy conducted in Sweden for decades is not the solution to housing shortages, homelessness or social challenges. In recent years, more residential units have been built than rental apartments. Many of these apartments have been expensive and exclusive, aimed at a high-end middle class. The demand for these dwellings is now falling, but the need for new housing remains. Housing should be part of welfare in the same way as school, health care and care, where the state and the municipality take responsibility for everyone to have somewhere to live regardless of income. Madam President, I would like It is increasingly difficult to get your own apartment in the housing queue. It may take five to ten years to get a place to live. That can't be reasonable. Can we imagine a society where, for example, children should have to wait or stand in line for ten years to get a place in a school? Because just like the school, the dwelling is a statutory right and part of the welfare. Madam President, I would like The rental right, which we are talking about here, has many important and positive characteristics. It is a form of lease that is not market priced. It is therefore available to all employee groups, unlike privately owned dwellings where the highest price is the governing factor. With reasonable brokering services, rental law is one of the most important tools to combat segregation, discrimination and the unfair distribution of housing. The right to rent is an important part of Swedish welfare. That is precisely why the Left Party wants to protect rental rights as a form of lease. Madam President, I would like The lack of rental apartments is still large, while more and more people lack their own accommodation. Many people today demand rental apartments with reasonable rental levels. In addition to building up the housing shortage, the existing stock of rental rights needs to remain just rental rights. A major problem is that rental apartments are currently sold and converted into residential units. The Left Party wants to review the legislation that actively contributes to the conversion of private tenant-ownership rights in order to safeguard the right of rental as a form of lease. We also want to improve the legal certainty of the transformation process. Madam President, I would like We see a massive wave of transformation in both the private and public housing stock, as well as a price and debt rally that has built up huge financial risks for households and banks. Everyone realises that this situation is unsustainable. Housing construction must be needs-driven and not primarily speculative or entirely cyclical and market driven. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a housing policy in which the state, the region and the municipality together take more responsibility and a housing building that makes every kid have a dwelling waiting for him or her when it's time to move from home or to the city where the jobs or education are located. We want to see housing financing and a risk-taking that is more in the common and common interest that will be greater in order to build to lower rents and put pressure on the local, private market. Madam President, I would like I must add that the January agreement proposes, among other things, the introduction of free renting in new production, that is to say, market rents, which both the Social Democrats and the Green Party have been opposed to. A fundamental problem in the housing market is that many cannot afford to demand newly produced rental apartments. In order not to further strengthen the division of the rental market, both public utility and private housing companies need to push rents into new production. The current system for renting works well, we think. This creates a prerequisite for reasonable rental development with fair rents and security for tenants. There is no reason to abandon the utility value system and introduce market rents. The presumption rent model makes it profitable to build new rental apartments. The property owner is paid for his costs and a reasonable return on his investment. Neither construction companies nor real estate companies consider the current leasing system to be an obstacle to housing construction. They state quite different reasons. Property owners themselves do not want market rents in new production. They believe that the current rental model is sufficient. The Left is clear about what will happen if the proposal on free renting or market rents is presented. I don't have to repeat that. We all know that by now. Madam President, I would like There is also a need for a tax reform that provides equivalence between rental and owned housing. We subsidise residential apartments, villas and houses owned by wealthy rich people, but we do not want to help finance the construction of rental apartments. That can't be reasonable. It's converted Robin Hood, you take from the poor and give to the rich. Madam President, I would like There are a number of examples of landlords who are not doing well. There are those with lack of maintenance and those dealing with so-called renov counting. Over the past ten years we have seen a development in Sweden where private property companies bought up entire residential areas with a single purpose, to make as large and as quick a profit as possible. Behind the private hosts are often foreign venture capital companies. The business model is simple: The landlords renovate the apartments individually and then be able to increase the rents significantly. At the same time, neither continuous maintenance nor long-term renovation is carried out, which increases the profit margin of the landlords even more. The winners are the private property companies and their owners. The losers are the tenants, many of whom are forced to move when the rents are shocked. We must stop the development where short-term investors use our rental housing as speculative objects. It must be possible to prevent rogue landlords from acquiring new properties in order to protect tenants. Madam President, I would like Finally, the tenant's weak influence and lack of seizure protection during renovation and reconstruction are confirmed by the Minister of Housing in a reply to a written question I put to the Government earlier last autumn. In the answer, the Government refers to the investigation Strengthened the position of tenants. The investigation concludes that the current rules are not sufficient to ensure the security of housing for all. The report contains several proposals which, together with the proposals made by, among others, the Tenants' Association, would strengthen the position of tenants in renovation and reconstruction and thus reduce the risk of renovation. The report was presented in March 2017 and is still being prepared within the Government Office. It has been quite a long time since then, and that cannot be reasonable. Something has to be done. Finally, let me emphasise my joy at the announcement to strengthen the protection of right-holders, which was supported by a majority in the committee beyond block borders. This is a problem in Malmö, mentioned earlier. These are associations that have been plundered, hijacked and mismanaged. I hope that we will continue to remove our ideological blind spots and find ways to work together to build away the housing shortage and secure the right to housing for everyone regardless of income.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-426	Madam President, I would like What I reacted to is the history audit that Momodou Malcolm Jallow is doing here. In his long speech on renting – which is not an issue in today's debate, which deals with the hijacking of right-of-occupancy associations – he pays tribute to today's system. Above all, he highlights the excellent utility value system as the great solution to the question of how the Swedish housing market can function better. While criticising and pointing out the problems that many agree, that it is difficult for many new people to enter the rental market, he applauds the system we have. He chooses especially – and this is where the history audit comes in – to lift the presumption rent system as something that is excellent. It was a few years ago that the lease was introduced, and I think it was the alliance government that introduced the system. It was then possible for a period of 10 years, the first 10 years, to charge a cost-based rent and then enter into a negotiated system. It turned out when we decided that the Left Party did not even like it at that time. At a later date, the presumption period was extended to 15 years because it was considered that 10 years was too short. On that occasion, too, the Left Party did not like the proposal. Now, however, it is evidently a gift from Gud to mankind. I wonder a little how Momodou Malcolm Jallow believes that the Swedish housing market should work better. Now the Committee on Finance has recently decided to add 7 1⁄2 billion to the municipalities for their welfare. It is a well-proven venture, and it is certainly good, according to Momodou Malcolm Jallow's way of seeing it, that you raise the tax rate for companies that want to hire more. But the question is: If money is needed – how many more billions in investment aid does Momodou Malcolm Jallow mean to throw after private and public property owners?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-432	Madam President, I would like The problem with Ola Johansson is that he suffers from exactly what I mentioned earlier in a debate: cognitive dissonance. He ignores all the facts. There is so much factual resistance in the Center Party that it is worrying. There is research that clearly shows that the market is not working. Even the Minister for Housing said in an interview this week that the market has failed. It is no news for me and for the Swedish people that the market has failed. Over the past 30 years, we have seen how the housing market has simply been undermined, and the housing shortage has increased in most of the Swedish municipalities. Then the Center Party wants to continue to give the market more power in housing policy. That can't be reasonable. When we've tried this for 30 years and it hasn't worked, why do you insist on doing it? Our property owners have said that it will not lead to more housing being built. Researchers have said that it will not lead to more housing being built. Investigations have shown exactly the same thing. Yet the Center Party persists in thinking that they know better than everyone else and says: This is the right thing to do. The Left is clear. We think that the current model that we have, in which the parties have to sit down and negotiate and decide, is a good system. That's what we're going to do. We as politicians have nothing to do with that particular model. Let's just leave it the way it is.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-437	Madam President, I would like And Momodou Malcolm Jallow is going to talk about fact resistance! If there is something that characterizes left-wing rhetoric, it is precisely that there is factual resistance. There is, of course, research that supports every possible position that can be found here in the world. And there is definitely real estate economic research that supports the view that if the market is given more leeway than it has in today's regulated system, it will be better for property owners to invest in new rentals. It could create rental apartments suitable for all types of wallets, and in particular it would promote mobility in the housing market. We have about the same amount of housing per capita as we had at some point in the 1990s, and the lack of access to apartments is not only due to the fact that there is too little building, but also because people are moving too little and there is no mobility. Having said that, I would like to return to my question, which I might have asked a little late in my line to Momodou Jallow. I ask my question in the light of the fact that municipalities now receive 7.5 billion more to support welfare. I welcome the fact that the municipalities receive more money. However, I am critical of the way in which the Left Party, together with the Swedish Democrats, have chosen to finance the reform. With the increased space and the great needs of Sweden's municipalities – what amount does Momodou Malcolm Jallow think it would be necessary to dope the Swedish housing market by further increasing investment aid? Investment aid is something for which the Center Party has negotiated a model with the government parties. This means that the aid will be more effective and concentrated and will be directed towards housing throughout the country, including to municipalities where there is no population growth. We believe that it is precisely in these municipalities and for the weakest housing markets that investment support is most needed.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-443	Madam President, I would like The biggest problem with housing policy in Sweden is the lack of political will to pursue a social housing policy that applies to everyone regardless of income. Anyone reading the draft budget of the Left Party sees that we have spent 2 billion more than the government on investment aid. We believe that investment support is an important part of the solution. There are several different things that need to be done, and we think that the state needs to take a greater role. We have historical experience of this. We've had free renting before. Market rents we've had before. We know what this leads to: people were homeless, and Sweden had Europe's highest rents. A large part of the Stockholms were residents, and people lived in tents and empty premises. What happened? Well, the government came in and took a bigger role. That's when the housing shortage began to subside. It's exactly the same way we have to do this time. We must learn from experience, from history and from mistakes. Make sure the government gets in! That is why we believe that the state must contribute more money. It's important with the money. It is important that we have support which, for example, in the form of investment aid, can help with the construction of housing, especially and in particular rental apartments. It's very important to us.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-448	Madam President, I would like The rental right is an important element in making a housing market work. Tenancy rights at reasonable rental prices are basically a task of policy to be achieved by regulating taxes and charges and not by supporting companies. But the foundation for creating rental apartments is that companies feel that it is worthwhile to build rental apartments by being able to manage the investment and future maintenance in financial terms. If we create a system where someone else constantly strangles the possibility of financing the existence of rental rights, the market will not work. The market today works so badly that you have to wait for years for a tenancy if you don't have feelings that make you get an apartment. Sweden has 22 areas that are classified as particularly vulnerable by the police. Here crime and unemployment are high, which gives less faith in the future than in other areas. In these areas there are by an overwhelming majority rentals. The role of housing policy in integration cannot be overestimated. In the vulnerable areas, rental rights dominate, but this does not have to be the case in the future if we allow ownership to enter the areas. For households with little chance of buying a home, we see Christian Democrats renting as an alternative way of promoting owned housing. Rent purchase means that part of the rent goes to acquire ownership shares in the apartment until the apartment is wholly owned by the resident. Should you move before the ownership has become complete, the shares can be resold. For this to take off seriously, owner-occupied apartments must be able to be purchased from real estate. Ownership apartments are common in Europe, but in Sweden they are an untested card because the legal framework is not adapted for them. We also want to develop the participatory method, which enables ownership in an apartment building. You can then combine the benefits of rental and tenant-ownership. Six out of ten have low or very low confidence in the government's housing policy, as measured by Novus. There is too little construction while the thresholds for the property are too high. Sweden clearly needs a new focus on housing policy. We need some people who dare to take the problems seriously and come up with real reforms. Ownership apartments, co-owner apartments and new production market rents are three parts that could be in place now directly to increase the attractiveness of rental apartments, enable a housing career in one's own area, strengthen security in vulnerable areas and increase integration. Being able to have market rents in newly produced apartments is a reasonable balance to be able to get new constructions on their own terms and get a little more functional market. The absence of a legal definition of student housing creates unnecessary barriers and costs on the housing market. It is not reasonable that Boverket's building regulations allow for a certain type of scope that can after completion be reconsidered with reference to the soil beam, which can lead to the conversion of newly built dwellings. I believe that there is a need for a definition of student housing that is included in the Tenancy Act. In addition to removing clear problems in the housing market, a definition would lead to several positive effects. A determination of the characteristics of a student dwelling opens up special rules that would improve the functioning of the student housing market. Better alignment of regulations with student conditions and the use and purpose of student housing would lead to a more flexible market for students and lower costs for student housing companies. This would increase construction and provide more suitable housing. The result would be more and better student housing available at the right time and at a lower price. I also believe that the share of rental apartments built in other parts would increase. With this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 2.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-459	Madam President, I would like When Roko Kursar, Regional Commissioner of the Liberals in Malmö, a cold and grey winter day last year forced me up to Rosengård in Malmö already at. 7 a.m.– we already had a whole day of agenda from 9 a.m. 8 a.m. 20 planned – of course I wasn't completely convinced. He wanted to show me a housing association called the Great Wall of China. I thought he was exaggerating about how bad things were in the association, but when I got there I quickly discovered that the Liberals' councillor had embellished the situation. When I got there, I was met by electric cables hanging loose from the elevator shaft, hurled down clothes in the stairwells, letter throws that were open– there was obviously no order and find out who lived in the houses – garbage threw over the entire residential area and lights that didn't work, which means a strong insecurity in the evenings especially for women. There were mattresses in the stairwells – apparently people slept there. Yes, in practice nothing seemed to work. The association seemed to have been hijacked by criminals. Today, it is also a breeding ground for other criminals. We know that stolen mopeds used, for example, in shootings, as well as drugs and weapons, are hidden and stored in unprotected spaces in this type of house. We must have legislation that stops the possibility of hijacking housing associations. We must also have legislation that imposes obligations on property owners to prevent crime, such as protecting basements and stairwells from unauthorised and particularly criminal groups. Madam President, I would like I am extremely pleased today that all eight parliamentary parties and all members of the Civil Committee were able to agree to call on the government to set up an investigation to stop criminals from cutting off housing rights associations. As the Left Party Member of Parliament, Jallow, pointed out, I believe that Parliament would have needed and will need many more joint statements on this type of issue. However, I also see that today in Expressen, the Centre Party takes full credit for our joint decision by eight parties. I think it's a little unfortunate. Had not Malmö's Municipal Commissioner Roko Courses forced me to the Chinese Wall last year, the Liberals would not have exercised the matter or pushed the issue here in Parliament. The MP Jallow as well as members of the Social Democrats and most other parties, including the Moderates, have pushed the issue in the Riksdag. I therefore believe that much more is a joint decision. In any case, all parliamentary parties have taken their responsibilities together and felt that something needs to be done. I think it's great. Speaking of exclusion areas, Madam President: when I grew up in Tynnered in Gothenburg in the late 90s and early 00s, it was not a vulnerable area. It is because of unconsidered integration policies that we have come here. It goes without saying that if everyone who has come to Sweden in recent decades has had no alternative but to settle in the most unattractive areas, which are misbuilt from a security perspective and where rentals dominate, it will eventually create a huge alienation. I meet asylum seekers and people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden, such as those who came from Syria in 2015. How can they get a tenancy agreement when it takes at least ten years in Stockholm and at least six years in the Gothenburg region to get a tenancy agreement where the jobs are located? Their alternative is a secondary contract, often black and without rent, or to settle in parts of Sweden where there are no jobs. We have created a system that is not sustainable in the long run. Tynnered and other areas around Sweden first developed into transition areas where you move and then get out of there. But now many, too many, are stuck in these areas, and that has led to what I mean is social and cultural exclusion. Madam President, I would like If you're not invited to the party, you risk standing outside and starting to hate those at the party. We see that the exclusion has established itself in Sweden. Remaining in Sweden's vulnerable areas now live a large proportion of those who have not been able to enter society, Swedes who have recently arrived in Sweden and a lot of people who are asylum seekers. These areas are now second-class areas, and we must have a policy to reverse this. The most important tool for reversing development is not to blame the Alliance's tax cuts. The Alliance's tax policy gave my working mother an extra monthly salary each year in crowns and coins. She was able to buy her first home thanks to the Alliance's tax cuts. Instead, we must push for an integration policy that works and, in particular, a social housing policy in which not everyone who comes to Sweden settles in the same vulnerable areas. As an integration spokesperson for the Liberals, I am clear: Sweden should not have any vulnerable areas in 2030. I intend to propose and pursue the policy that Sweden needs to ensure that social cohesion in the country is not broken and that individuals who come to Sweden have an honest chance of succeeding here. That is our objective. Liberals want, among other things, binding BID legislation in vulnerable areas. BID Sofielund in Malmö, which is not legally regulated but voluntary and where, for example, you have problems with free-riders and some who misbehave, has this year received the prize to be the best initiative in Europe for crime prevention. It is thus the property owners that are the strongest tool for reversing development. We need to have that legislation throughout Sweden, in all vulnerable areas. We need more opportunities to mismanage real estate – yes, there are. We need greater demands for crime prevention for property owners. We need a national census to stop false censuses and ensure that fewer dependent people live in the same areas. We must have a social housing policy that allows them to live in other areas too. But I would also like to point out that we need a policy in which it is much easier to evict criminals from their homes. Yes, having a home, a roof over your head, is a human right, but living in a certain place is not a human right if you behave in a certain way toward others. Liberals have a reservation, No. 3, that it will be easier to evict criminals. I would like to endorse that. I hope that next year, when we debate this issue, I will have with me the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, yes, all eight parties. It is absolutely crucial for Sweden's future that we show that criminals cannot take over a particular area. Madam President, I would like I must honestly say that I do not understand why a rent in a particularly vulnerable area such as Tynnered in Gothenburg may be higher than it is in Haga, for example, the most attractive and requested area in Gothenburg. Haga's beautiful. I love Haga and would also like to live in Haga, but I have no chance of it because I do not have 25 years in the rent queue. The vulnerable areas must, in addition to receiving fewer asylum seekers – which is now the case because the Liberals got through a restriction of EBO in the January agreement – also be allowed to compete with the price. In addition, rent increases must be linked to how well a property owner takes care of his residential area. This has been implemented by the Liberals and the Center Party in the January agreement, as we will have an investigation into the leasing system. Madam President, I would like I know I have gone a little over the speaking time, but I would like to conclude by saying that 45% of the 500 largest and most successful companies in the United States were started by immigrants or children of immigrants – 45%! In Sweden we have entrepreneurs such as Gunilla von Platen, athletes such as Alexander Isak and programme leaders like Gina Dirawi who makes Sweden amazing. Many of those who today grow up in vulnerable areas and do not get the same chances of life as we other Swedes will do amazing things for our country too.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-478	Madam President, I would like The right to rent is an extremely important form of tenancy and a form of tenancy in which we from the Green Party believe it should be possible and attractive to live in during the different stages of life. The rental right must be a secure form of lease where the landlord has the main responsibility for care and maintenance. Among the motions that were received during the general period of exercise regarding rental rights, which we are here today to debate – we are also going to debate the housing rights – there are some that make me lift my eyebrows a little extra. One example is the motion by Hans Rothenberg from the Moderates that says that we should review the utility value system in favour of market rents and announce this to the government. I don't think that's such a good idea. Instead, in order for the rental right to be a form of lease that is available during different parts of life, we will have to ensure that rental apartments are built that even people with low incomes can afford to demand. We need to enable the rental right to become modern and a broader form of lease than it is today. It should be easier and safer to establish, for example, friend contracts and to be several who share the same functions, not least in order to reduce the cost of accommodation. I would like to mention a project currently under way in Uppsala, run by the municipal housing company Uppsalahem. It's called Max 4 Lax. It is a clever name, but the project also has a very important foundation. Uppsalahem has found that a lot of single elderly women live in the stock. They have been asked what a reasonable monthly cost would be for them to have any money at all to live on after the rent has been paid. The sum just turned out to be a maximum of four salmon. $5,000 is what these women could afford to pay for a home. Uppsalahem, of course, wants to find a form of tenure for them as well and is now developing a form of collective housing in this project, but not the type of collective housing that most of us are thinking of, but one where you share some of the expensive functions to bring down the housing cost. More of this type of project is needed around our country for everyone to have the opportunity to have a safe home. The fact that Hans Rothenberg of the Moderates wants to introduce only market rents and abandon the utility value system would lead to large wealth redistributions. For example, property owners with houses in attractive areas would make a lot of money. It would probably drive up the rents because we have an imbalance in the market and a deficit in rents. It could also lead to even greater segregation and polarisation of our residential areas. This is not a good idea. What I think is a good idea, however, is to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. It also thinks that a united committee, as we have heard earlier here, and that is why we are now calling on the government to come up with proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. This is because it should be safe to live and invest in a right-of-occupancy apartment. Today, there are a number of examples of how rogue operators have mismanaged right-of-occupancy associations. We now hope, on the part of the committee, that the government will urgently deal with this issue, because it is urgent that individuals in these associations should not be affected by the activities of criminals and criminals. I think this is an important signal and I am pleased that it is a united committee that supports this call. I support the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-486	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in its entirety and for the other forms of order to be rejected. As a former local councillor, I sometimes miss local politics. In municipal politics, it is usually practical politics and not ideological differences that guide. My hometown of Helsingborg has been marked by this for a long time. True, we had a referendum here that SD and M wanted to sell out our energy company, but the people indicated with a clear no that we should not. There was no consensus there, but otherwise I would like to point out that in Helsingborg all parties are trying to take responsibility. I can miss that mood in here sometimes. I think we could do a lot of good in this forum if we just chose to cooperate a little more. Sometimes that mood arises, and I have to say that on the issue of the rights of rightholders, I really feel that this is the case. I think that the committee has worked exemplaryly on this issue, talked to each other and listened, and I think that the government has shown goodwill and listened. It is with horror that we have followed the reporting from Malmö and other parts of the country where housing associations have been hijacked and criminals have exploited people in a terrible way. I think it is exemplary how representatives from different parties have taken this fight together. Actually, there hasn't been much pie throwing either. There has not been much finger pointing, but we have seen to the benefit of the citizens. That makes me very happy. Other representatives have highlighted this as a strength in this debate. It is also a clear signal to the tenant-owners: we hear you, we see you and we intend to act. The government has acted by starting to prepare for the development of directives for a right-of-occupancy register. It's a very important question, and it has to go away. Because it is not only the issue for the individual that is at issue here, but the issue of mortgages also, in the long run, involves a financial risk. It is extremely dangerous if we allow criminals to eat into the financial systems and threaten by taking up a large number of loans on a single apartment. It is therefore very good that the government is making progress on this issue. In principle, we propose to approve all the motions in this area and to pick up the proposals that exist. I have to say that I think it is fantastic that the committee has taken this approach. The government will, of course, act on this. Then someone will surely think it is going too slow and someone will think that it does not take that particular person's proposal into account, but the government will still act on this issue. I think that is extremely important, because the housing association is a unique Swedish institution in many ways. There are some variations in Denmark and Norway, but otherwise, as a democratic institution, it is unique for Sweden to have this popular commitment to their living in this way. The closest are the tenants and their organisation in the tenant area. I think that in here we have an obligation to preserve the unique Swedish system that the right-of-occupancy housing means. That is why I am pleased that we in the Committee on Civil Liberties have joined in this.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-495	Madam President, I would like My home is my castle. It may be a flosskel, but I still think it feels that way to many people. And that's how it's supposed to feel. One should feel safe and secure in one's home. Earlier in this debate, we have heard discussions about integration and crime and about growing and having the opportunity to develop in one's home and in one's neighbourhood. These are very important issues, but I still choose to stick to the motion report that we are going to discuss today. Today's report consists of a number of motions which raise important issues about the legal aspects of our rental and tenant-ownership accommodation. Although much has already been regulated, there are still outstanding issues which create uncertainty for the many people who have their homes in these tenure forms. We have heard many stories today about housing associations that have been hijacked and people living in misery in a place where they absolutely have the right to feel safe and secure. Questions asked by the motionaries include who can request a right-of-occupancy association in bankruptcy, who has the right to sit on the board of a right-of-occupancy association and whether there should be minority protection on the boards. What is the protection of a right-of-occupancy right-holder when hijacking a right-of-occupancy association? That this has happened, we have heard from both sides today. Madam President, I would like Another issue raised is whether state authorities should go in and control housing associations and which state authorities should do so. I do not know exactly where I am on this issue, and it is therefore good that the committee, in its announcement, is asking the government to investigate these issues. In 2017, an investigation was launched into the strengthening of consumer protection in the housing market, and it is now being handled by the government. The committee believes, however, that many of the issues raised by the motionaries are not answered in this investigation and therefore need to be addressed. We have heard from all the speakers in today's debate that the protection of rightholders from associations needs to be further strengthened. Therefore, the Moderates support the announcement to the government that a broader allocation is needed. It is important that the Government prioritises the development of clear legislation in the area of housing rights. This legislation must respond to the issues raised in today's motion report. Madam President, I would like We therefore support the committee's announcement in this regard. But the fact that we support the announcement does not mean that we give the government carte blanche. We still reserve the right to return once the investigation has been completed and take a position on the content of the investigation. A mission doesn't mean approval. Madam President, I would like In addition to the issues we have dealt with in today's report, there are issues that we look forward to coming back to in this House. This applies, among other things, to the JÖK's proposal for a free lease. S, MP, C and L agree on this, and we look forward to the government making concrete proposals in this regard. We are therefore looking forward to vigorous and energetic debates on the rental market and the housing market in this House. Unlike Emma Hult, I would like to highlight a motion in today's report which I think is very good and which is also supported in the announcement. It is Mr Åberg who has two of her proposals met in today's debate. She is a very good member from Skåne who also takes responsibility for the right-holders' rights.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-505	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Swedish Democrats have several motions which are dealt with under a simplified exercise procedure. I therefore refer to previous claims and reservations on these motions. In today's report, I would like to focus primarily on the point concerning enhanced protection of right-holders. We support the committee's announcement that the government will return to Parliament with proposals for strengthening consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. There are several examples of housing associations being hijacked and looted. Financial resources have been made available by taking over the right-of-occupancy association or by other means gaining access to the association's finances. One example is the right-of-occupancy association Ida in Malmö. There, SEK 250 million has been made available over a two - year period. This has, of course, led to increased rents and reduced market value. This is, of course, an extremely serious situation for a right-of-occupancy holder. Another form is that a company buys into the association, takes control of the board of directors and thereby absorbs financial resources. This has been highlighted by the media. This has enabled organised and other crime to have access to financial resources. It has also had other consequences in these residential areas as they are slumped and weakened in many ways when this type of crime occurs against these housing associations. This, of course, is serious in many ways and has many other consequences for this area of society. It is therefore important for the committee to act to combat further organised crime in this area. The property owners' report on this shows that 12 per cent of Sweden's housing rights associations have been exposed to financial crime during the last five years. The report also shows that the authorities lack a comprehensive picture of this crime. This is, of course, important to include in the discussion that will take place in the future. Several proposals for measures to combat crime in this area have been highlighted in the debate. It is clear that the issue needs further and more detailed consideration, which is also what the committee proposes in its report. There are 1.7 million Swedes living in a right-of-occupancy apartment. This means that many have taken out loans to finance their home purchase. Bostaden also has a great value for the private economy. Of course, when this happens, it affects the individual very much. It is therefore important that the protection of those who own a right-of-occupancy apartment is strong. Owning a right-of-occupancy apartment also means being part of a collective in which you, together with your neighbours, help each other to keep the rents down and make sure that the housing association is doing well financially. We have discussed in the past that municipalities can buy into tenant-ownership associations. However, they will not contribute to the association's activities in the same way. This is important to consider when talking about the possibilities and consequences of a right-of-occupancy association when a crime occurs or when municipalities join a right-of-occupancy association. To sum up, it has major consequences for the individual when a right-of-occupancy association is hijacked by organised or disorganised crime. With the decision that Parliament will take today, I assume that the Government will urgently come back with a proposal to strengthen the protection of right-of-occupancy holders. Furthermore, the 2017 report on strengthening consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market will be completed as soon as possible so that we can get strong proposals in this area and prevent people and companies from hijacking, mismanagement and plundering right-of-occupancy associations. In addition, more severe penalties need to be imposed on those who act in this way. The Swedish Democrats support the committee's proposal regarding the announcement on this point.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-520	Madam President, I would like According to Fastighetsägarearna, around 3 000 tenant-owner associations are subjected to crime every year, including direct hijackings, which several have already been involved in. This is a problem that politics has not dealt with in time but where it is now finally being acted upon. In Malmö, the right-of-occupancy association Ida, which several have mentioned, and several right-of-occupancy associations in the Chinese Wall have had their board cut off by people who have no interest in the interests of the members. I have had BRF Ida new chairman visit to Parliament together with authorities and property owners to raise to Parliament the reality in which they live. Their situation is bad. Robert Hannah has already described in a good way what it looks like. Children live in apartments without heat and with moisture everywhere. It's running black down the walls. Doors and windows cannot be closed. People live in fear of those who control the associations. It is an absurd situation to sit at home with these people and listen to their stories. It could be good for more people to do it. Individual right-of-occupancy holders risk losing not only the apartment that is already in bad shape, but also the whole of their housing investment that would give them a future. In the long run, their entire personal finances are at risk. These are people who cannot once again raise half a million dollars or 700,000. It is in practice their pension that disappears. You have to understand how bad it is for these people. Madam President, I would like I am therefore pleased that the entire Committee on Civil Liberties has agreed on an announcement based, among other things, on the proposal by the Center Party on the protection of the rights of residence. I am also pleased that Members from almost all parties have engaged in the hijackings in my hometown of Malmö. That is very good, and I am grateful for this. Today, Parliament will vote on the same thing. This means that we can finally increase the protection of the nearly 1 million people who live in a right-of-occupancy building in Sweden. This is very important, and I am grateful that the Riksdag has taken on board the proposals that have been raised by the very citizens of Malmö who have suffered from hijackings by their right-of-occupancy associations. I hope that we can continue to work well together in Parliament on these issues, as many have mentioned. It is those who are exposed to the hijackings that must be in focus and not party bickering. Madam President, I would like When I asked the Minister for Housing if he could promise to act quickly on the announcement and the investigation that has been completed since 2017 there was unfortunately no clear answer. In fact, a clear confirmation from the government is needed here that they see the same problems as the Riksdag and the Civil Committee do and that they are ready to act. In the end, that's where the power over things to happen is. Madam President, I would like The Centre Party, together with the Liberals, has a reservation for a right-of-occupancy register. This would provide much stronger protection for the purchaser of a tenant-owner. Among other things, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority consider that such a register is absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, a majority in the Riksdag does not currently support such a register. We heard former representatives of the committee say that the government is making proposals in this area. I hope that this is correct and that the government has listened to our repeated speeches. Madam President, I would like We will continue to push for a right-of-occupancy register, and I would like, as Ola Johansson has requested, to approve reservation 4. All in all, I would like to say today that this day is a very good day for many citizens in Malmö and also in the rest of the country. I would like to thank the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs for this.
i-3uehVz81MeUZevcpwpaP43	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask for the proposal to be approved and for reservation 2. Serious crime is hitting our society hard. We can almost daily see shootings and explosions that remind us in a very tangible way of how the criminal networks have moved forward their positions and threaten the social contract itself. Terrorism has spread fear and terror in Europe on too many occasions in recent years. So also in Sweden. It has been clear for a long time that law enforcement authorities need to be given new tools to combat the most serious forms of crime. Finally, we stand ready here to decide on a new tool for law enforcement in their work against serious crime. Secret data readings have been investigated and discussed for many years. As early as 2005, an SOU proposed that the police should be given the opportunity to use secret data readings. It has been 15 years since then, and the need has become more and more apparent as technological developments and worrying developments in crime take place. Technological developments have made the existing secret coercive measures available to law enforcement agencies increasingly ineffective over time. Not least, encryption and anonymization have had that effect. We use less and less traditional telephony in our communications. New internet-based communication platforms are being developed and telephony becomes IP-based. The investigation indicates that more than 90 percent of the intercepted Internet traffic is currently encrypted. Virtually all communication platforms have built-in security and security functions. This is, of course, a positive development for ordinary users by making our communication safer and more secure. However, it also poses an obvious difficulty for law enforcement authorities. The existence of encrypted and anonymised information that law enforcement authorities cannot access today has significant negative effects in terms of the closure of criminal investigations. In other cases, they do not get to the leaders of the criminal networks. The Moderates have been pushing for a long time for law enforcement authorities to be given the possibility of secret data reading, and we got the question in the first terrorist agreement in 2015. The report on the basis of the legislation was presented in November 2017 and proposed the entry into force of the new legislation on 1 January 2019. When, with more than a year's delay, we can now take a position on the government's proposal, we say, finally! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We support the proposal but see that on two points it is not enough. Firstly, like the Police Authority and the Security Service, we believe that it should be sufficient, in the context of secret data reading in the collection cases, that the measure is of particular importance for the prevention, prevention or detection of certain serious and socially dangerous crime. These are the same requirements that apply to the collection teams today. We therefore want the government to return to Parliament with such a bill. Secondly, we believe that the location requirement proposed by the government when reading or recording camera surveillance and room monitoring tasks will make the use of secret data reading more difficult. The location requirement means that secret data reading in these respects may only be used in predetermined locations rather than following a person. In its opinion, the police authorities pointed out that there is a risk that the place requirement would render regulation ineffective as electronic communication equipment is often transferred with the person. We therefore propose that the government re-examine the issue of seat requirements. Madam President, I would like Secret data reading means that law enforcement authorities are being provided with a powerful tool. At the same time, we must be aware that secret data reading is an intervention measure that could increase the risks of personal integrity compared to the current use of secret coercive measures. However, the Moderates share the government's view that the new regulation is necessary and that the positive effects of introducing secret data reading clearly exceed the privacy breach to which persons subject to the measure are exposed. In the same way that we all live more and more of our lives online, it also applies to people who engage in serious crime. Crime previously planned or carried out in other arenas has today increasingly moved to the digital arena. Leaving large parts of the digital arena inaccessible to law enforcement authorities would also make it impossible to fight certain crimes. It is gratifying that the legislation on secret data reading has finally come to Parliament for decision. At the same time, we can see that, as usual with this government, it is too late and too weak.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-544	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Justice Committee's report 19 on the Government proposal Secret data reading. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal and for reservation 3. We are pleased that the government has produced the bill that is now on the table and that almost all parties support it. In the fight against organised crime, all the means are needed to curb the development we see in society. In the past, law enforcement authorities have access to a number of secret means of coercion: interception of electronic communications, monitoring of electronic communications, camera surveillance and clandestine eavesdropping. However, technological developments in recent years have undermined the effectiveness of these coercive measures. It is therefore a must that secret data readings are also added to this catalogue of secret coercive measures that our authorities can use. Already in 2015 we exercised Swedish democrats on the necessity of keeping up with technological developments and allowing secret data reading. Madam President, I would like Serious organised crime has hit our country like a natural disaster. This is an exceptional development we are seeing in our country. You have to go to war zones to find a similar amount of explosives. How has this happened? you ask yourself. Poverty and exclusion are highlighted as causes in some quarters. Elsewhere, drug use is highlighted in wealthy areas or the large amount of weapons brought into our country. But there is poverty in many other countries. Drugs flow in many cities, and firearms are far more elsewhere. Yet killings and bombings are rare in Germany, for example. What sets us apart from other similar countries? One thing that separates us from other countries is the low clearance rate. Our understaffed and unfortunately constantly underfunded police force is unable to keep up with organized crime. The risk of detection is small and the consequences for criminals in Sweden are small. At the same time, they have been faced with a smorgasbord of opportunities in the form of welfare crimes, ID fraud and rogue corporate setups. Another thing that separates Sweden is the extensive immigration of low-skilled people into exclusion areas. Much of the serious crime we see today is linked to so-called vulnerable areas. These are some of the explanations for the exceptional situation in Sweden, but few apart from us Swedish democrats have pointed them out in this House. It is therefore a combination of very extensive immigration into segregated areas and a judicial system that has not been able to match the emerging criminality. But none of these are forces of nature. These are the consequences of political decisions taken by this government and previous governments. The present government has had five years to provide the police with the means to deal with the problems. We welcome this bill, but, as usual, it is far too late and, in our opinion, is not enough. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats support the bill, but believe that the location requirement that disappeared in terms of permission for secret data reading to access camera surveillance and room tapping data does not sufficiently take into account the conditions of the new coercive device. For example, mobile phones are often in motion. It would take extensive reconnaissance before secret data readings can be carried out. This risks being even more intrusive than the proposal submitted by the investigation. There is already a general awareness among criminals of the requirements of the legislation on the ground for existing coercive measures. This is something that is being exploited. We believe that there are strong reasons for re-examining the issue of place requirements by reference to technological developments and the difficulties encountered by law enforcement authorities in applying them. Madam President, I would like Another point concerning location is the exceptions for certain places proposed in Section 11 of the Act. The Security Service has repeatedly noted threats from the violent Islamic environment, as recently appeared in the application of special foreigner control to several imams and Islamists. There is therefore reason to believe that in some cases there may be a need for secret coercive measures even in places proposed to be covered by that prohibition. It is something that restricts personal privacy to a greater extent than in some other places, but we believe that in some cases it can be considered justified on the basis of the particular threat picture in the individual case if it can be justified on the basis of the principle of proportionality. We can never allow Islamists and other extremists to operate in secret. We must give both the police and the Security Service the tools they need to prevent these from committing abominable acts in our country. We cannot allow organised crime to operate freely. We must assume our responsibilities as elected politicians and guarantee the security and security of our citizens.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-553	Madam President, I would like When Parliament legislates, it must be done with a holistic perspective and an awareness of which society it is that we want to shape with laws and practices. This is particularly true today, when a new form of secret coercive measures will be put through, really without much debate. It is a coercive measure that is tremendously interference with personal integrity, a coercive measure that is extremely unclear as to what capacity our authorities have to use and a coercive measure that raises more questions than the government can answer. In contrast to the government, the Left Party makes the assessment that the benefits of secret data reading are not large enough to make such a major interference in personal privacy. Secret data reading will allow the state to see real-time electronic communication through a virus-like program with so-called Trojans. It's about passwords and what's written on computers and cell phones. This means that communication that takes place for criminal purposes will be seen, but also communication within the family, with friends, with journalists and with doctors. It's all visible. However, it is not just personal integrity that makes this questionable legislation. There is also a lack of technical competence. It is not really anyone who can answer if Swedish authorities have the competence to use this coercive device or how it should actually go to read encrypted apps. Unfortunately, there is little evidence that secret data reading is the simple solution that so many people seem to hope for. One thing is clear. The safety gap – the loophole – that has to be in place to install a Trojan is very small. It takes technical flaws or human weaknesses to find this loophole. And the encrypted information is very large. The robbery that has to happen in order to install the Trojans can look in different ways. But one condition is that there is a vulnerability on the phone. This could involve tricking the suspected criminal into installing drivers or Trojans. The police can also use vulnerabilities in the IT system itself which are not known by the IT system manufacturer. It is a technology that was previously sold on the black market but is now open to everyone. Whether the authorities will use this method is unclear. Equally unclear is whether the vulnerabilities will then be communicated with the companies that produce the IT systems, so that they have an opportunity to address the vulnerabilities. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to curb crime, to have effective intelligence activities and to be able to obtain relevant information in the right way. But it is extremely doubtful whether the secret data reading will do just that. Instead, the government could devote its energies to increasing international cooperation in order to tackle cross-border crime and ensure that Sweden becomes properly involved in the work that Europol is doing. The government could also ensure that Sweden ratifys the Budapest Convention, the main aim of which is to harmonise national legislation on cybercrime, and simplify international cooperation on these issues. New legislation is rarely needed. On the other hand, cooperation between countries is needed to curb crime. I request that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be accepted.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-563	Madam President, I would like Last week we met here to debate the governance of the justice chain. I noted then that organised crime must be met by a judicial system that is even better organised. Today, the debate is about the introduction of a new law that will give law enforcement authorities better tools in the fight to prevent, intervene and prosecute serious crimes and criminals. If criminals have access to good technology to communicate and plan, our judicial system must have access to even better technology. The report we are discussing states that there is a clear need for new and better methods of secretly accessing data which can already be obtained today, with existing coercive measures, but which cannot be accessed because of technological developments and the development of crime and society. The massive increase in the use of encryption means that law enforcement authorities can only read less than 10% of the data communications currently being intercepted or monitored. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want the judiciary to be given appropriate means of coercion to prosecute crime. We therefore support the fact that the government is now extending the possibility of listening to persons suspected of serious crime. Our judicial system should not be tied up by the fact that the legislation lags behind technological developments. The risks to privacy that various consultation bodies have rightly highlighted have been dealt with in a reasonable manner through the described authorisation process, the review by the Swedish Security and Privacy Protection Board and the limitation of the validity of the law. On some points, however, we believe that the government has not been sufficiently sensitive to the views and wishes of the authorities that will apply the new law in practice. In a follow-up motion that the Moderates have fortunately chosen to make for their own too, we have highlighted some points where the proposed legislation should be adjusted. The site requirement proposed by the government will complicate the use of secret data reading for law enforcement authorities. The Christian Democrats share the objections of, among other things, the Police Authority and the Customs Agency, who advocate that the coercive measures be linked to person rather than to place. The police and Säpo further recommend that secret data reading be granted if the measure is of particular importance for the prevention, prevention or detection of criminal activities specified in the Recovery Act. Instead, the Government considers that this should be granted only if the measure is of paramount importance. This is a higher requirement than the collection act's requirements for e.g. mast emptying to locate mobile phones. The Christian Democrats share Säpo's and the police's assessment and believe that the requirement for secret data reading should not be set higher than what is already provided for in the Recovery Act. Several consultation bodies point to the problem of having an access permit approved by a court on time or worry that interpretation and application will be far too narrow. One can imagine a situation in which a suspect puts a mobile phone down in a place that is accessible to the public — a changing room, perhaps. The window to trade can be small and thus impossible to use if permission is given by a court. The proposal that prosecutors be able to take interim decisions is not sufficient. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the government should return to the Riksdag with a proposal that takes into account the objections raised by the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Police Authority regarding the scope and process of the permit of access. Finally, we Christian Democrats would also like to point out that the police in their referrals state that they will not be able to deal with the costs of secret data reading within the existing framework of activities. Säpo makes the same assessment. The Swedish courts say that it is difficult to assess the costs. Given that the government has previously shown unwillingness or perhaps inability to meet the financial needs of the judicial authorities, we are concerned about the economic consequences that may arise from this and would urge the government to take it seriously. That being said, the application of the new law may be resource-intensive, but it is worth it. The number of cases where the new law is applied is deemed to be relatively limited, but it is worth it. The new law increases the risks to individuals' privacy to some extent, but it is still worth it. The development of technology must not mean that our judicial system cannot intervene against organised crime, terrorism and, for example, child pornography networks. Again, if criminals have access to good technology to communicate and plan, our judicial system must have access to even better technology. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of Amendment No 5.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-580	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats went to elections in 2018 to build a stronger society. We've come a long way, but we want a lot more. We will do everything we can to strengthen prosperity, secure the streets and reduce the divides in our country. In the area of justice, we are in the midst of historical investments in Swedish police. The target is 10,000 more police employees by 2024, and by the end of the year the agency had grown by 3,500 employees compared to 2015. This together with some fifty penalties that we have already made and investments in the entire legal chain are important parts of our work for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. We will stop gang crime and fight organised crime in our country. Here a strong police force, stronger legislation and close collaboration between different authorities is incredibly important. But powerful tools are also needed to achieve full effect. In 2019, we decided in this House to give the police, among other things, more effective possibilities for camera surveillance and new forms of data storage for law enforcement purposes. There are two tools that make a difference and that the police have clearly asked for. Today we are debating another proposal and an important piece of the puzzle in giving law enforcement authorities more powerful tools. It is an important part of the work the government is doing to strengthen society's protection and ability to prevent and clear up serious crimes such as murder, serious drug crime, rape and crimes against national security. Law enforcement authorities have access to a variety of coercive measures to investigate and prevent serious crime. Some coercive measures are used in secret, that is, without anyone being aware of them. For example, secret wiretaps of telephone calls and secret room wiretaps are allowed to intercept calls between individuals. However, technological developments with more encrypted communication and easy-to-use apps along with the actions of criminals today make it difficult for law enforcement authorities to collect the information needed to investigate and prevent crime. Reality has run from the legislation and tools that Swedish police and crime prevention authorities have. It is therefore incredibly important that we, here in the Swedish Parliament, are able to keep up with legislation. As the previous speaker pointed out, our common society needs, in the light of developments in which criminals become more skilled and use harder ways, always to deliver even more. This is legislation that follows developments. It is incredibly good that we can debate here today and will also decide on secret data reading. It is a secret coercive measure included in the government's 34-point program of further measures against gang crime. Secret coercive measures are important and necessary for investigating, preventing and preventing crime. They can provide information on who a suspect has communicated with or where he or she is. Criminal authorities clearly point to the fact that 90% of the information previously available is not available today because criminals use encrypted communication channels in various forms. This is a real problem linked to the serious organised crime in Sweden and the individuals and gang networks that are getting away today. Secret data reading is a cure for this problem and means that the Police Authority, the Security Service, the Customs and the Swedish Ecocrime Agency will have better opportunities to listen and monitor persons suspected or expected to commit serious crimes. The legislation provides effective tools for resolving crime and will lead to a greater resolution of serious crime, but also a clear prevention. Of course, some people ask themselves what will happen with the rule of law. Secret data reading is a coercive intervention in the same way as more traditional coercive measures, and it is of course important that there are guarantees of legal certainty. First of all, secret data reading should only be used when other, less-interrupted coercive measures are not sufficient and an investigation into serious crime needs to be carried out. The question of secret data reading must also always be examined by a court, and the person who has been subjected to secret data reading must, as a general rule, be informed of this afterwards. The Security and Privacy Protection Board will conduct oversight, and there will also be parliamentary control in the same way as for today's coercive measures through accounting for the Riksdag. In short, Madam President, today's debate and decision is about introducing a new secret coercive measure aimed at ensuring that law enforcement authorities have the same opportunity to receive important information as before encrypted apps and means of communication limited this possibility. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-594	Madam President, I would like I have asked the Police Authority, the Security Service, Europol and also the Minister for the Interior without a real answer. I am therefore taking the opportunity to put the same question to the Chairman of the Committee on Justice, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli. This is a question to which no one else seems to be able to answer and which is why the Left Party's criticism of this new legislation is so great: what is the scope, ability and ability of the crime prevention authorities to actually use secret data reading? We know that this with cyber-halls is lagging behind both the police and the Security Service. You don't have the IT skills to use even relatively simple secret coercive measures. Is the police competent to use secret data reading given that we know that police sometimes find it difficult to empty a regular mobile phone and in preliminary investigations about examples of child pornography crimes missing large, open chats on, for example, Steam because they lack basic IT skills? At this point, the government wants to give our authorities incredible interventional legislation. The state should be allowed to install state Trojans in private telephones. How should our authorities be able to use this legislation?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-597	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to reverse the whole perspective when it comes to the question asked by Linda Westerlund Snecker. Basically, there is a technological development that does not provide our law enforcement authorities with the information or knowledge needed to combat some of the most serious crimes in our society. In the past it was done and gained that knowledge through the coercive measures we have. Now we are introducing another coercive measure to keep pace with time and have sufficient technology. I do not believe that our law enforcement authorities have to the point and in all areas exactly the skills or technology that this might require in the future, precisely because the possibility has not existed. It is here and now that we in Parliament are saying that this opportunity should exist. This may mean that our authorities will need to develop their technology park and know-how in the future, but I think it is clear that there is a need. Serious crimes are committed by criminals who escape because technology has run out of law. Then this is the right way to go, and so I am surprised that the Left Party is so clearly focusing on technology. I do not understand that the Left Party has otherwise been so strongly opposed to the more traditional means of coercion, and this is, to me, an update on the possibility of good and powerful tools.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-599	Madam President, I would like Then I suggest that Fredrik Lundh Sammeli read a little more about Left Party politics. If there are any who have consistently been critical of precisely the use of secret coercive measures, it is the Left Party. We are currently the only ones in Swedish politics that mention personal integrity at all as an important factor in open and free society. People should not be afraid to be supervised by the state. We'll always take that fight. Reversing the perspective, says Fredrik Lundh Sammeli. Absolutely, but why legislate on a technology that has existed for 15 years? If so, why did the government not develop this and suggest that we should have state encryption keys so that we can decrypt the encrypted information used to 90% in criminal circles? Why is there a technical back-up in the future with legislation that will not be used by the authorities for lack of IT skills and the computer halls are not up-to-date? If so, why does the government not go any further if you want to be up-to-date and be able to prosecute crimes in real life without paying any attention to personal integrity, which is clearly not a factor that the government cares about? I'm going to talk more about technology, because I want to know where the Trojans are going to come from. Which companies will develop the Trojans? What information will these companies receive from the authorities in order to close the gaps so that they can develop safer funds? Or is it the government's intention for us to have it that is not safe, so that the state always has the opportunity to install secret data reading whenever you feel like it at any time?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-602	Madam President, I would like What is now on Parliament's table and on which we have a position is legislation that provides the police with new, powerful tools – a secret coercive measure that is otherwise to be dealt with in the same way as the previous ones and tested in the same way as the previous ones. It is a reasonable balance to provide law enforcement authorities with the tools they need to combat the crime that we see, not least serious organised crime, but also crimes against national security, rape or serious drug crime, where today it is so easy to hide with today's technology. We as politicians and legislators need to ensure that we have legislation that provides those tools and at the same time has a reasonable balance with regard to legal certainty and integrity. I think that this product deals well with this, in the same way as the other secret coercives. I think that the big problem is not that the Left Party is portraying itself as the only ones thinking about the integrity perspective, but that the Left Party is therefore the only party that here in Parliament does not want to give law enforcement authorities the tools they need in the time we live in.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-605	Madam President, I would like Every measure taken to solve societal problems must be analysed on the basis of a variety of conditions. Expected benefits must be weighed against potential risks. Positive effects must be balanced against the cost of the measure and broken against the alternatives, so that we always ensure that we get the best possible benefit from the funds we impose on taxpayers. In the area of justice, it is not uncommon for various measures to be proposed which, at the same time, are intervention against the citizens, threaten their personal integrity and challenge the so important balance of power that must prevail between man and state in any liberal democracy. The means we are discussing today, secret data reading, have come into being to meet a need that technology development has brought to us. This came to the fore during the fruitful and constructive cross-block talks that took place during the last parliamentary term on how best to combat terrorism. Precisely secret data reading became part of the agreement that was made. A familiar and relatively uncontroversially secret coercive device that has been used for many years is telephone tapping. The problem is that the regulatory framework is based on conditions from another time. Nowadays, traffic is mainly not over copper wire by analogy, but over the network and not infrequently through encrypted services. In order for law enforcement authorities not to lose too much capacity with this shift in technology, other means are required to intercept calls in order to combat serious crimes. Such a means will be put in place with this bill. There have been legitimate questions about the product, but the Center Party's assessment is that the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. There is a clear regulatory framework in the proposal for when, where and how the product can be used. I believe that this is important in order to prevent purpose-sliding and abuse. We also need to legislate as future-proof as we can, and this, of course, is to be technology-neutral as far as possible, but it is also about making the laws so good that they are used in the way they were intended, even if the state and its various means of power would be governed by forces that do not in the same way safeguard fundamental democratic rules of the game. Such forces can, of course, both break the law and try to change it, but the fact that one legislates well from the beginning is an important obstacle to such progress. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it may appear in the debate that any individual policy proposal would solve societal problems in a single substantial alexander hem. My experience is that this is never the case. A wide range of measures and long-term, urgent and targeted work are needed. Secret data reading is just as little as any other coercive instrument as it is sufficient, but we now agree to try it over a period of five years. I believe that it will be a valuable tool and that law enforcement authorities will be able to make important contributions to everyone's security, but at the same time we will be aware that it is a tool that is both costly and requires great competence to manage. It is therefore wise to carefully evaluate the method, so that we ensure that we use taxpayers' money as responsibly as it is ever possible.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-614	Madam President, I would like For the Liberals, it is important that we can vigorously combat crime and increase security in Sweden. It is important to have a lot of staff in law enforcement. Good leadership and relevant legislation are needed, and what we are now debating is also needed, namely access to relevant coercive measures. The communications have evolved from letter pigeons and smoke signals to individual calls via technology, and throughout the time the state has had the opportunity to restrict, intercept and control communication when suspected of serious crimes. Communication is, of course, crucial for all the pleasant things we as people are doing and also for the serious criminals who have the idea of violating other people's privacy. In this House, we have been talking over the last few decades about everything from camera surveillance to the Defence Radio Institute and signal reconnaissance. This has now stopped talking about, but then it sounded at the debate as if there were to be a dictatorship in Sweden. Today, most people know how important it is that we have a Swedish signal reconnaissance. In the same way that we had signal reconnaissance during the Second World War, we have it today to protect Sweden from external attacks. We have talked about data storage, room tapping – what is popularly called bugging, that is to say that you have microphones in a car, a local or whatever – and now we can see that the analogue technology for telephone calls has been replaced by total digitalisation. Different forms of apps, encryption and other services are used. Now, and the Liberals support this, we want to ensure that the same rules apply in this area as for other communications via mobile phones and fixed telephony, if anyone uses it. I see young people in the stands here. I think getting them off usually uses a landline. So it is one that used to be in the kitchen at home. But the legislation should therefore be technology neutral, regardless of whether you call, text or use apps. It's no harder than that. Madam President, I would like As usual, the picture of the change is dystope in some direction. The objection has been that the police can't and can't handle anything. That's what we just heard from the Left Party. Someone else thinks that the police can do anything and should be allowed to do anything. From the Liberals' point of view, this is a balanced product. We think it is a balanced balance between need and purpose and proportionality that is reasonable. You have to be a little careful. You have to move slowly. Even I myself sometimes think when I take part of the media or talk to police, prosecutors and social workers that the Chinese system of total supervision of everyone would constantly fight a lot of crime. I'm absolutely sure of that, actually. But it would be terribly unpleasant, and it would mean a total shutdown of the open society. I think it's going to be that we're a little behind. We take steps and slowly move forward to meet new technologies, which create new threats and new situations. Human integrity can be violated. At worst, life can be extinguished. As you know, this is intended to be targeted at serious crime. That is why it is very important to take this with a great deal of sense and balance, and from the Liberals we believe that this is the case. The question of whether coercive measures should be linked to a person instead of a place, whether it is wiretapping or wiretapping, has been raised before. Then there has not been the same support as there is now from some representatives of other parties here. I hear what you are saying, but the risk is that in court, when this is to be applied, there is a sense of proportionality: that there are too many innocent people whose integrity may be violated. There are therefore arguments for continuing to link it to the site, although it may be a bit lumpy and even if you have to make several decisions. But I think we should move slowly in this area. The question of economic conditions was raised. This is expensive. It's time-consuming. The Liberals have ensured that, in their cooperation on the budget with the Government and the Center Party, resources have been set aside for this to be possible. This will hopefully lead to what is crucial for the Liberals, namely reducing crime and increasing security while maintaining the integrity of people who actually have the right to live in freedom in this wonderful country. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-626	Madam President, I would like As usual, Johan Pehrson begins very broadly in some kind of confused anecdote about signal intelligence, which we have already debated and legislated on. You go over to China's social rating system in some very strange harang, which we will definitely not legislate on in the Swedish Parliament. You're talking very little about secret data reading, which is actually what we're going to be debating right now, and we're going to press our buttons to get through it. There is, like, no party as fluttery in its legal policy as the Liberals. It may also make you one of the parties with the least voter support. It sure as hell knows what you think on various issues. I would like to ask Johan Pehrson questions: What do the Liberals think about the secret data reading and about the Trojans, the computer program, which is to be installed as viruses in the free and open society to which you are happy to refer, as you did today? In people's free and open phones, the state should be able to go in and install Trojans. Where will these Trojans come from? Is it the state that is going to develop the Trojans, or is it IT companies? If it is an IT company, I wonder: In what way will the IT companies work with leaks that the police can use to install Trojans? Should they be counteracted, or should they remain open? It's a pretty big security threat if you think that it's companies that are going to do something about it, as Johan Pehrson would surely have said it, in people's mobile phones. But I would actually like to hear you talk about the bill that we are debating today.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-630	I would like to remind you that all Members speak through the President and not directly to anyone else in this House.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-631	Madam President, I would like Then we'll have a little chat with Linda Westerlund Snecker. Yes, we believe that this meets the requirements of need and purpose, and it has a good proportionality. We don't think there should be much difference if a person orders a murder analogly by calling a cell phone or if a person orders a murder by sending a message on Whatsapp. We think both murders are just as serious. Communication should be monitored preferably in order to prevent crime but also in order to be able to clear up crimes. It's very simple. Then I understand that Linda Westerlund Snecker would like to see that it is state-owned factories that will produce this, but I can assure Linda Westerlund Snecker and the Left Party that there is a market for security equipment that the Swedish state uses. This applies partly to the police and partly to our armed forces, which are supposed to protect us from clear external threats. There is an industry that manufactures these products. The point of this is that we should be able to crack serious crime. The measure itself will be examined in a variety of legal certainty bodies. It's supposed to be a prosecutor. It shall be subject to judicial review. There will be a letter. This will continue to be sent to Parliament, and we will debate this. My point is that it's balanced. My point with the introduction was that the Left Party has said no to the FRA. You've said no to signal reconnaissance. You've actually said no to everything because it risks violating privacy. That's my point. But I can also say that there are others who want to go much further, who say they want to give even more resources and opportunities to the police right now. We from the Liberals say that we think this is balanced. It can't be very difficult to take on such a middle position, but in Ytterkanssverige it is that way.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-635	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that it is still not possible to get a serious answer from the Liberals at all when it comes to a little more complicated questions. How will the free person be able to protect his or her integrity in an open society? Madam President, I would like Johan Pehrson starts talking and ralliing about state-owned factories. It is not serious to debate that way. There is an enormous difference between various coercive measures. It is a huge difference to install government Trojans in mobile phones in order to see in real time all the communication that is taking place, compared to other coercive measures. This is much more intervention. We haven't had that in Sweden before. Then the Liberals and Johan Pehrson rumble that it should be state-owned factories that produce Trojans. It is only because Johan Pehrson cannot answer how this is actually to be done, just as the government cannot answer how this coercive measure can actually be used by the police and Säpo. I think it's sad. I think it is unserious when we legislate on such an intervention matter. It is about the free man's right not to have to have the state as a supervisor. How can you, as a liberal party on the one hand, rail over the fact that the Left Party wants surveillance everywhere or say no to surveillance everywhere and, on the other hand, have no idea that people have the right not to be watched by a strong state? It is extremely important that we constantly protect personal integrity. The Liberals have completely lost in their eagerness to act.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-639	Madam President, I would like I understand but can still regret that Linda Westerlund Snecker does not want to see the historical connection. In the Left Party, you may not be so happy about your history. But you refuse to see that you have said no to all the measures that we have had so far on the table. I just want to come back to the fact that this is a way of being technology neutral when people communicate, for example, via their phones or via their computers. There are procedural safeguards – they are set out in our report and in the bill. The idea is that this should be used in case of suspicion of very serious crime. It'll be the prosecutor's decision. It'll be a court order. It will be reviewed by the Security and Privacy Protection Board. There will be reports here for the Riksdag. This is a way to level the playing field a little to ensure that people can live in freedom and security. For there are too many people today who are engaged in serious crimes and who have the business idea of destroying the lives of others. Those people want Linda Westerlund Snecker and the Left Party in practice to protect.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-642	Madam President, I would like The introduction of secret data reading is the introduction of a new coercive measure. The aim is for the police to be able to solve serious crimes as well as to prevent them from happening. This is one of the measures that both the chief police officer and the chief police officer have stressed the need for the most clearly, and it is also something that has previously been agreed between several parties in the Riksdag. We don't live in a police state, luckily enough. The fact that the police want something does not mean that we as legislators should meet them without further ado. However, we have a duty to listen, to be responsive and to evaluate both the need and the design in that case. Coercive measures are, by their very nature, a violation of privacy, and this will be a new coercive measure. We have for a long time in Sweden and other countries had coercive measures such as search, search, telephone tapping and bugging. These are necessary tools. Not when it comes to all crimes – far from it. But they must be there for the coarser, under strict regulation and under control and supervision. It is worth mentioning that coercive measures are a violation of privacy, but being subjected to crime is also so. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that there is strict control over the use of coercive measures. In this case, court decisions are required for secret data readings to be used, just as for several of the other coercive measures. This will also be followed up annually in the Government's letter, which we will discuss in Parliament. It shall be the oversight of the Security and Privacy Protection Board. The legislation is valid for a period of five years. There will be every reason to evaluate it seriously and follow up how this happens, what effects it will have both on law enforcement and on other aspects as well as how useful it is before this is dealt with next time. Madam President, I would like Today we live our lives digitally to a large extent. Many devote themselves to their mobile screens, their toad or their computer four or five hours a day, sometimes more, although many wish it were less. One has one's life and communication digitally in a completely different way than ten fifteen years ago. This is an incredibly big change, and it has had consequences in all areas, so also in terms of crime and law enforcement. When it was previously more accessible with telephone tapping or search, it is today less that appears there and more that is digitally on the phone. That is also the background to the fact that this has been developed: reality has changed. There has been a development. Madam President, I would like This is hopefully something that can help save lives and reduce serious crime. That is something that I and the Green Party support and will vote in favour of in this House in a few hours' time. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-TNCxQN3pjVfaodRDTv454R	Madam President, I would like Today, the Social Security Committee is gathering in this House to debate SfU13 The Swedish National Audit Office's report on equal sick leave. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the sick leave of 60,000 individuals in Skåne County who visited doctors between 2010 and 2016 and were then diagnosed with either mild or moderate mental illness or pain problems. In terms of pain, there was no direct difference between the sexes, while there was a clear difference in the assessment of the persons with mental illness. Just as the Swedish National Audit Office states, it is difficult to make an assessment of the actual mental illness, since it is based on self-assessment. The report, on the other hand, draws attention to the fact that women who experience mild or moderate mental illness are reported sickly up to 30 percent more than men with the same self-esteem. Generally, absenteeism is greater among women than among men, and a variety of reasons can be seen for this. Among us in this House are probably a variety of opinions based on our different ideologies. But what you can see in research is that it is an unequal labour market. Another reason is the unpaid work that contributes to what is usually called duplication of work, i.e. you work not only paid at work, but you continue when you come home. It is mainly women who take greater responsibility for the home and the children when they live in a relationship with a man. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government set up an investigation to address the unfair differences in sick leave, which has already been done. The report Financial coordination between health care and health insurance proposes, among other things, to improve the quality of the medical work and to influence sick leave in a positive direction. The report is currently being prepared in the Government Office, which is why we see no reason to set up another study which is likely to produce similar recommendations. In addition, the regulatory letters to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency have taken their starting point in what we are discussing today. I think it is foolish to treat the symptoms when it comes to disease problems. Instead, the disease itself, i.e. the unequal society, should be treated. I also think it is unnecessary to order more investigations when the job is already done. Double work, as I said, was rarely good. In the light of the difficulties in assessing work capacity, it is difficult, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, to draw a sharp line between inappropriate and factual differences in doctors' assessment of the patient's need for sick leave. Difficulties in determining work capacity are particularly evident in mental illness. We share the government's view that uncertainty in the assessment of work capacity needs to be reduced, regardless of whether the differences in absenteeism between men and women should be described as inappropriate or factual. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office is a welcome contribution to knowledge. Reducing uncertainty in the labour assessment is best achieved by the measures set out in the Government's letter. The government is also continuing its work on equal living conditions for women and men and on equal sick leave, as I have said in the past. In doing so, Madam President, I support our reservation and reject the committee's position in paragraph 1.
i-H4e5dXRRgWuf1VDhZYE4Vb	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on equal sick leave and SfU13. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a declaration under paragraph 1 and our reservation 2 under paragraph 2. As I said, the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out a review and looked at whether there are inappropriate differences between men and women in the doctor's assessment of the patient's need for sick leave. The review shows that the difference seems to be partly inappropriately based on mild or moderate mental illness. It can, of course, be difficult to determine whether the differences are factual or inappropriate, and I agree with the government that it may be difficult to draw a sharp line between what is factual and inappropriate. However, I believe that the differences between men's and women's sick leave are a problem that needs to be investigated and addressed – from both perspectives. One doesn't have to rule out the other. That is why we in the Swedish Democrats believe that, in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal, the inappropriate differences that the review shows should be investigated, which is part of the announcement proposed in the committee's report. But, Madam President, we also believe that we should get to the bottom of the issue and investigate what may be the fundamental reasons why so many women today suffer precisely from mental illness and, in many cases, burn-out. Of course, there are research that points to various things, but we think that we need to investigate the issue more closely. Regardless of sick leave or not, this is a serious problem in Sweden today – not only mental illness in general but also that so many women are affected by mental illness. At working ages and among older people, more women than men suffer from mental illness, which is worrying in itself. The Swedish National Audit Office's report also shows that the differences in absenteeism between men and women have grown steadily since the first half of the 1980s until today. Women are on sick leave almost twice as much as men, and mental illness accounts for over half of all sick leave in Sweden today. This is a frightening development, and it is even more frightening that this negative development has been possible without the issue – at least I think it – having been thoroughly investigated and taken seriously. I see the high level of mental illness and sick leave as partly a symptom that something really is not right in today's society, Madam President. Many people are not well, and this is a particularly serious gender equality problem that the so-called feminist government should take much more seriously. I find it sad that the committee was unable to agree on a clear statement to investigate also the underlying causes of the current differences between women's and men's mental health and thus the differences in sick leave. The government points out a number of different reasons why things can be as they are today, with these great differences. Among other things, it points out that the labour market is gender-segregated, which means that women and men face different working conditions. Yes, absolutely – certainly affects poor working conditions. That is something we raise in our accompanying motion, and it is a good thing that the government recognises its own fatal failures. The labour market is segregated in that many women have chosen to work in contact professions, which are often in the public sector. Then today they have the bad luck of having irresponsible Social Democratic politicians as the highest responsible for their working conditions. We see an excessive workload in health and long-term care, combined with little opportunities to make a career, poor wage development, little opportunity to influence working hours and more. These may be factors that affect, and these serious shortcomings in working conditions need to be addressed urgently. According to much of the research that has been done and as various reports have shown, the most important single measure to reduce sickness absence is early prevention. That is also something we propose in our reservation. In order to be able to take preventive measures, municipalities and regions need increased resources. This also applies to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but the Government has not given the Swedish Work Environment Authority the resources it requires to be able to do this work. Regions and municipalities are now on their knees because of this government's irresponsible policy. Madam President, I would like However, knowledge of the impact of the work situation does not contradict the need to investigate thoroughly in a broader perspective why so many women today suffer from mental illness and burnout. As the government points out, it may also have to do with the combination of work and family relationships, where women are allowed to draw an extra large load. As I see it, both shouldering responsibility for a heavy job of contact and taking great responsibility for house and home can certainly be a cause of burnout, but instead of speculating on this and what possible measures are needed, we believe that a thorough investigation needs to be carried out. The government seems to believe that additional quotas in parental insurance would be the ultimate solution to cure the burnout of women. But regardless of what you think about parental insurance and regardless of which of the parents is at home, parental leave is a very limited time during the early childhood years – it is perhaps only in the first year of life that you have that opportunity. The real challenges come when the puzzle of life with children, jobs and family is going to go together. Believe me, I have three small children and sit in Parliament; I know how difficult the puzzle of life can sometimes be. This is why we believe that an unbiased study of causes is needed to find solutions and measures that can achieve the goal of improving mental health for both men and women. This applies to both those who work in the private sector and those who work in the public sector and whether you have children or not. I cannot understand why the government should be so opposed to such an investigation. Having said that, I believe, as I said earlier, that even if one looks at the underlying causes and preventive measures regarding the labour market and family relationships, the person affected by mental illness – or physical illness – should be assessed and treated equally in contact with doctors, the Social Insurance Agency or the Employment Service. You should be judged equally whether you are a man or a woman, and you should be treated in a legally secure way. Therefore, we agree with what the committee says, in line with the Swedish National Audit Office, that the Government should, on the one hand, instruct the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to follow up medical certification and, on the other hand, set up an investigation to combat inappropriate gender differences in sick leave and sick leave. The study should also include examining the doctor's knowledge of how to improve the work situation, in order to reduce uncertainty in the assessments. It is precisely in the case of mental illness that these assessments are difficult. Nothing prevents the government from also investigating the issue in a broader perspective. I would also like to agree with what the Center Party has said in its motion, namely that we actually need to investigate the whole health insurance system thoroughly. One objective that everyone should agree on here today is that mental and physical health must be improved. In particular, mental illness is particularly worrying, and there must be more equality between men and women – and thus also equal in terms of sick leave. To achieve that goal, we need to find out how best to get there.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-675	Madam President, I would like It is an important report from the Swedish National Audit Office that we are now dealing with. In the report on equal sick leave, the Swedish National Audit Office highlights in a very clear way that sick leave is unfair – and that there is a lack of knowledge about why sick leave is unequal. The report also shows that there is evidence of the results in reports from, for example, the Social Security Inspection, which has pointed out the same thing on several occasions. It has also been noted much earlier by the State's preparation for medical and social evaluation, the Social Council that had the government's mission during the time of the alliance government. They acted as advisors in health and social affairs, and there too the importance of working on these issues was highlighted. Despite all the reports and investigations over the years, however, there have been no major changes. It's just not important. The government is also saying today that you don't have to do anything more on the basis of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which I and the Center Party think is incredible. For this reason, Madam President, I support the proposal for the announcement. I appreciate that there has been a majority in favour of this, so that the government really must continue to work on the three most important points that the Swedish National Audit Office points out. So the government does not think that more needs to be done about it and instead points to what has been done in the past or what one wishes to do but does not do, which means that one has not gone to the bottom of the problem altogether. The most affected are women. They are on sick leave more, and they are not given the opportunity for rehabilitation. How can you think that you have done enough when you have read the Swedish National Auditor's report? For me, who is a center woman and a center party, this is not defensible. Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party believe that the whole process of sick leave needs to be changed. The role of the Social Insurance Agency as coordinator is not binding at all. The employer's role in rehabilitation is impossible because the medical certificates are inadequate. The employer must not know the cause of the disease and, in other words, will not be able to act and participate. Health care, with the sick doctor, certainly has a key role to play in this context. But the knowledge about the sick person's work situation and working conditions is not enough on the part of the doctors when they are going to write the medical certificates, as the National Audit Office also points out. One of the parties involved needs to be given a primary responsibility to act correctly in the process in terms of the order in which various measures need to be taken and to participate in the sick leave process. In accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's report, Madam Speaker, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will be given a mandate to follow up medical certification for men and women. That is a good thing, because then we will discover even more clearly and even more easily the gender differences that occur. In order for the doctor to gain better knowledge and opportunities to assess a person's work capacity, the doctor needs employees. This requires, for example, physiotherapists, as it is now known, occupational therapists and psychiatrists or curators involved in the job assessment. Contact with the workplace is necessary, and this must be done at a very early stage. This means that the quality and consistency of medical certificates can be improved. It is also possible to increase the level of insurable medical knowledge that is really needed in these contexts. Early contact with the workplace means that the employer can act quickly. Early intervention is important in all sick leave processes, and if this does not work, it will take much longer to get back to work. Early intervention is A and O. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency is today very rarely asking for additions to the medical certificate, which is also shown in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Of course, if the care – the medical doctor – together with the employer and the sick person are given a clear first responsibility in the process, the Social Insurance Agency's assessment will also be easier, and you don't have to wait too long to deal with the matter. Today it is inexplicable. In spite of a medical certificate, the sick person receives a refusal from the Social Insurance Agency, and the most common is that it takes place on the 180th day. This must not happen if you have not previously had very clear medical certificates that describe this and show what the employer has done to interact with the sick leave and care. With another, much clearer, process in the context of sick leave, more people would be treated equally and knowledge about the unequal sick leave would be improved, which is necessary. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a declaration. I am not in favour of my motions, as they have been very much satisfied.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-693	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office believes that there are differences in the assessment of the sick leave process regarding gender and mental illness and that these differences are unfair. This, says the Left Party, is too narrow an entrance to announce to the government to investigate. People are complex and do not fit into today's rigid system. It's the system that's the problem. The working life of women – and also their home situation – is different from that of men. You get different right to health care depending on gender. Men have more difficulty telling about their feelings and burying themselves more often in jobs, while women have the great responsibility for homework. Mental ill-health is one of the areas where the shortcomings of the system are most evident when it comes to assessing people's work capacity and helping with rehabilitation. Madam President, I would like During 2018, the Social Security Inspection, ISF, presented several reports on sickness benefit, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's treatment and the government's governance of the agency. The reports clearly show that more and more people are being refused their application for sickness benefit. This is a direct result of government governance. In 2016, the Government set the target for the sickness benefit to reach a maximum of nine days per year at the end of 2020. According to ISF, this objective has meant that Försäkringskassan is increasingly focusing on measurable production targets and that its application is more restrictive today than before. The starting point is that the insured person's time in the system should be as short as possible. However, the effect has been that people in need of sickness benefit are more severely affected than before, and the root of the problem of sick leave has not been addressed. The Government has now in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's regulation letter for 2019 removed the target for the sickness benefit rate. Now the agency must instead be governed with the aim that the absence from work due to illness should be at a long-term low and stable level, which is also the goal set by the Riksdag in the relevant expenditure area. Madam President, I would like The refusals hit people's personal finances hard, and their ability to support themselves is severely limited. Those who suffer from illness feel even worse and become even sicker when they are distrusted and do not get the support they deserve. High rates of sick leave will never be addressed by people ending up in poverty – vice versa. Anna, who previously worked in preschool, writes that she became sicker in the struggle with Försäkringskassan. The Social Insurance Agency should be directed to work with rehabilitation, but decisions on sick leave should under no circumstances be guided by the objectives of the expenditure area. Ensuring that ill-health, stress and absenteeism from work due to illness are at a long-term stable and low level is more of a task for labour market policies, social partners and health care – that is not something we can magic out through health insurance. Madam President, I would like The growing gaps are due to political choices. Never before has so few been granted sickness benefit as last year, shows new figures from Försäkringskassan. 5 478 people received sickness benefit last year, which is 56 fewer than in the previous year. This is the lowest figure since the sickness benefit, as it stands today, was introduced in 2003. In 2007, 41 000 people were granted sick benefits for the first time. The fee for the compensation system has remained at about the same level at all times, but payments have been reduced by over 100 billion. It is we employees who pay health insurance through social security contributions, which is part of our pay gap. But the money goes no further to the compensation system, but to tax cuts. The biggest cut has been made on the very long-term sick. There payments have even been halved, from 87 billion to 43 billion. Speak of humiliation robbery! Madam President, I would like Twelve years have passed since the bourgeois government destroyed health insurance. During their five years in power, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have neglected to fix it. Instead of trying to combat the cases of illness, they have pushed down sick leave. The fact that you are ill is not important. You should just not receive your sickness benefit or sickness benefit. The Left Party wants to repair the health insurance. We need health insurance that provides security instead of deadlines that punish the individual. We need a regulatory framework that places a greater share of responsibility with the Social Insurance Agency and the employer – those who have real opportunities to influence the situation. We need to remove the rehabilitation chain with its rigid deadlines. Give more importance to medical certificates, and redo the requirements to receive sickness and activity compensation! Madam President, I would like Minister of Health Insurance Ardalan Shekarabi has been talking about making changes in 2022. There's no need for that much time. We can't wait that long. Carry out those changes now, and we can move on with further changes then! It is therefore particularly unreasonable for the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats to propose that we allow the government to investigate unfair differences between the sexes. It's just... It's... It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The government doesn't have time to investigate the matter anymore, especially at this level. What is needed now is for the government to act. If the parties mentioned were of the same opinion, they should instead demand a change that gives more rights to compensation, because what is unfair today is that people are not granted compensation even though they are ill. For the Left Party, it is the disease, burnout and stress that is the problem, not the sick leave itself. When the other parties want to reduce sickness rates, we want to improve people's health so that they do not need to be prescribed sick. I would like to ask you to accept reservation 1 in paragraph 1.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-708	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has never been in favour of the rehabilitation chain. I'm well aware of that. But it was introduced with the intention to be very good when it came to providing sick leave and support quickly in the sick leave process. This has now changed and deteriorated the current government. It would have been much better if they had helped to follow the rehabilitation chain, for it meant that the person on sick leave during the first sick leave would receive support and help within 30 days. After 180 days, you would have reviewed the possibility for the sick person to work at his or her workplace but with other tasks, and after a year you would really see if sick leave was what helped the person or not. If it helped the person to be on sick leave longer, that is, that he could then return to his job, he would be allowed to be. These were clear guidelines for everyone in the process to know when to deal with the matter and how to help a person get back to work or to another job. Why does the Left Party think that clear guidelines on how to handle the sick leave process are bad?
i-3VR87P3mGmpe2jr8e1zWuQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for your thought! The Left Party certainly does not believe that we should not have a clear governance of Försäkringskassan. However, despite few legislative changes, and despite the fact that there is no one who has gone in, pointed out with the whole hand and said that now we are going to do this, there has been a big change in just a few years. This is because the political power has changed the directives to the Social Insurance Agency. If Solveig Zander is interested in changing this way of working and thinks that we should have clear rules for when to receive sickness benefit, I welcome Solveig Zander to join the Left Party's opinion. The new investigation also shows that this type of rehabilitation with time limits makes it difficult for interventions to be more flexible and personalised. That is why the Left Party wants, instead of having a rigid rehabilitation chain, to be able to deploy efforts directly, and they should not be limited by inhibitory deadlines. You should also not have to sit and worry that after a certain day you will be covered. That is exactly the way it looks today. I would like to ask Solveig Zander if we could not take the money that the Center Party is spending today in the budget on RUT deductions to invest instead in more people receiving sickness benefits. It is 5.3 billion that goes to the 10% richest. Does Solveig Zander think that's reasonable?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-715	Madam President, I would like The RUT deduction we can very well discuss, because many people have come to work because of it. Among other things, people who have changed jobs because they have not been able to work on their previous job have been given the opportunity to enter the labour market, so the RUT deduction is good in many ways, even in this context. But it is not intended that the rehabilitation chain should act for sickness benefit, it is intended to enable you to receive sickness benefit if you are ill. You get sickness benefit when you can't work, when you're so sick that you get what was previously called early retirement. Sickness benefit is about this. I still claim that, as the Left Party says, help should be given early. When we had a clear rehabilitation chain, we knew within what time limits different actors would act. That is what is not working today. Then it is better to have a rehabilitation chain that clearly shows when it is the responsibility of the employer and the care. Now you have to check if there are others who can help you get back to work. And the Left Party cannot think it is wrong with clarity, because I thought I heard somewhere that the Left Party is in favour of it. But without knowing the rehabilitation chain, you saw it instead of making sure it can get better. After all, you were included in the government document during the last parliamentary term. Then why didn't you do it?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-717	Madam President, I would like Solveig Zander is surely aware that we did not have an agreement on the rehabilitation chain in the budget settlement. The Left Party has proposed the same thing on several occasions. I do not know if what Solveig Zander is talking so hot about is the precipice, which we are happy that we were involved in abolishing. Then, unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats and some other parties voted to reintroduce it again. The Left Party will never stand up for that, if that is what Solveig Zander refers to. The Left Party believes that when resources are lost out of welfare, when money that we have renounced from our collective payspace instead goes to your favorite proposals – the removal of the 6 billion military tax and RUT deductions for 5.3 billion – there is no money left for people who have worked their whole lives to be entitled to sickness benefit. The investigation I referred to has just investigated the sickness benefit, not the sickness benefit. It is believed that rehabilitation, as it already stands today, despite the removal of the precipice, is sometimes too rigid. Why not join the Left Party proposal, which is about seeing people as they are? We must have a much more flexible system so that it does not convict people. The system is designed to protect and help people. Solveig Zander and the Center Party can see that when it comes to rich billionaires in Danderyd. But when it comes to people in need of sickness benefit, they are not as easily seen.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-722	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson stated that she is critical of the announcement to investigate inappropriate differences. But the Left Party and Ida Gabrielsson have no proposal to investigate the basic problem. Instead, they feel that more investigations are unnecessary to investigate what we, the Swedish Democrats, have raised: Why are there so many more women today than men who suffer from mental illness and get sick leave? Does that mean that the Left Party thinks it is an unimportant issue? Shouldn't we care that many women today feel bad and suffer from mental illness? The Left Party has no proposal. They simply agree with the government that nothing more needs to be done on this issue than what the government is already doing. Why is it unimportant to address the serious problems? I'm gonna be really uneasy. It is a gender equality problem that so many more women than men suffer from mental illness and burn-out and are forced to leave sick. We also want to investigate whether there are inappropriate differences in the assessment. You need to look at the issue from different perspectives. One doesn't have to rule out the other. I agree with Mrs Ida Gabrielsson that there are certainly major shortcomings in health insurance today. There are many inhumane insurance policies, and the rules for receiving sickness benefits need to be relaxed. However, we are now debating the inequality that exists with regard to sick leave. There are big differences. We are several parties that have come up with concrete proposals to investigate it. Then I think it's rather ludicrous to say that more investigations are unnecessary. What we are saying is that we want to get to the bottom of the problem that so many more women than men suffer from mental illness and are more sick today. Why does the Left Party think it is unnecessary to investigate such a serious and important issue?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-729	Madam President, I would like Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats say that they are concerned. The Swedish democrats can release this concern right now. The Left Party does not think there should be an investigation because we already have the proposals. We have even submitted them in the form of exercise. It is only for the Swedish Democrats to vote for them, if they want to. It is a question of women taking too much of household responsibility. This can be solved by sharing parental insurance. This would allow parents to relate to their children. And later, when they are to be driven to and care for other activities in the home, they have a connection to the child, feel that they are part of it and take responsibility for it. The Left Party wants there to be a right to full-time employment, that health insurance should be upgraded and that you should get money in your wallet if you have sickness benefit, so that you can afford to take care of your children and do not have to feel financial stress. Instead, the Swedish democrats have invested in voting to restore the stock and have contributed to the tax gap between sick people and employees. Instead, the Left Party has given priority to the people we are talking about today. Of course, I can apologize for saying a little bit of a shrewd that there's no point in investigating. But I'm tired of hearing the word investigation again. It is clear that we need to do something about the whole health insurance system. That is why the Left Party does not want to waste more resources on investigations which, at best, may be put on the shelf, especially when we already have the proposals on how to deal with this ill health.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-733	Madam President, I would like It is very possible that the strategy of the Social Democrats and this government is to put the investigation on the shelf when it has been investigated and concluded that there is a serious problem without doing anything about it. But my ambition is that an investigation that concludes that there are serious problems should lead to action being taken. Otherwise, the investigation is useless. I absolutely agree with that. As for the fact that I do not have to worry because the government is already doing so much about it and the Left Party has put forward proposals, I thank you for the ambition to reduce my concern. Unfortunately, however, despite the proposals made by the government and despite what has been done, we see a marked increase in mental illness. More and more women are suffering from burnout and sick leave, and we see no sign of improvement. Working conditions in the public sector are poor. People wear themselves out completely. And it's hard to get the puzzle of life together with work and family. For example, there is the possibility of reducing working hours. But you lose it financially, and you lose your pension. These are important things that we need to investigate and look at to see how we can make life easier to get together. Then the proposal of the Left Party and the Social Democrats is constantly and again: we quota parental insurance. Let's go inside and destroy the family's own opportunity to put their life puzzle. I'm not putting any value into whether it's the mother or the father who's at home. It is great if the father can take greater responsibility during parental leave. But it does not help later, when both will work full - time and take care of the family. We need to look at what we can do to make it easier for families when they are in that situation. Parental leave is valid for a limited period of time. We need to be able to investigate thoroughly how to find good solutions to make it easier for families and to reduce burnout. It does not help just to boast that quotaed parental leave would be the ultimate solution to cure burnout.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-738	Madam President, I would like Okay! We can ignore parental insurance. We have a lot of other suggestions that everyone is happy to keep up. But it is about many of the patterns that we see later being made during the time you are at home with your children. Everyone knows that statistics today show that the distribution of domestic work is much more equal before having children. However, I do not know whether it is an idea to investigate things together with the Swedish Democrats. There are already facts about this. But the Swedish Democrats seem to regard them as fake news. So my view is that we should instead put forward the other proposals. We can ignore parental insurance for now. We are putting forward the other proposals and investing in work environment work, rehabilitation in the labour market, labour inspectorates and other things. But neither do the Swedish Democrats want to do that. Bet on raised pensions! Make sure not to contribute to tax cuts of 20 billion, as was done when the Moderates' budget was pushed through in 2018. If it had not been done, we would have had completely different resources to strengthen sickness benefits. What the Swedish Democrats are pretty good at – I don't want to say they're champions, but they're pretty good at it – is to stand here in the speaker's chair and tell them how much they would like to do for the sick. But when it comes down to it, they vote in favour of re-establishing the precipice. They will then see to it that the tax gap between the sick and the wage earners increases. It is something that should not be hidden behind talking about investigations on gender equality, when the Swedish Democrats at least ignore the facts that already exist.
i-JrZEK1upqyT8zTGCLXorXP	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support reservation 4 in paragraph 2. Otherwise, of course, I support the committee's proposal as a whole, with the important announcement it contains. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether women and men are assessed equally in the sick leave process. It is a very important review that highlights problems that we rarely address. The review shows that the gender gap in absenteeism between men and women with mild or moderate mental illness seems to be partly inappropriate. That is why the debate today is important. The differences are caused by the fact that men and women with equal work capacity are on sick leave to varying degrees. However, no inappropriate gender differences have been found among patients with, for example, diagnosis of pain. This puts your finger on something else remarkable that you need to dig further into. However, the review does not provide an answer to whether women are on sick leave more or if men are on sick leave less than the regulatory framework allows, if there are other reasons or how it is in the balance sheet. In the light of the report, the government concludes that it is difficult to draw a sharp line between what is inappropriate and what is factually different in doctors' assessments of patients' need for sick leave, and we can possibly agree with that. The government believes that no further action needs to be taken, but that, Madam President, is a rather strange conclusion and a somewhat premature position, in our view liberals. This is also the view of a majority in committee. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office explicitly calls on the Government to commission the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to regularly monitor medical certificate writing for men and women at various health care providers and to set up an investigation that will provide suggestions on how health care should be given incentives to reduce the space for inappropriate differences in sick leave, how the quality and consistency of medical certificates can increase and how doctors' knowledge of the patient's working situation can be improved. Here lies a deep problem. The government rejects this and believes that reducing uncertainty in the work ability assessment is best achieved through the measures now being taken, including the actions of the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Social Insurance Fund in the framework of the so-called dialogue mission. The Government will therefore not give Försäkringskassan any new assignment or set up an investigation in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation. This is a strange management of a government that claims to want to reduce the number of sick leave and tackle the causes. The general view among doctors is that certification takes an enormous amount of their working time. The effects of it will be small, in their opinion. The time required is due, among other things, to the fact that general practitioners do not have and cannot have sufficient knowledge of what to think about when assessing a person's work capacity in a particular profession, as there is no reference profession to compare with, and thus how to improve the patient's work situation. The dialogue between employers and carers is thus broken and quite inadequate. Madam President, I would like In addition to improving the situation and training of general practitioners, there is reason to review the current rules on the sick leave process, as several of the previous speakers have mentioned. For example, a general practitioner with a good knowledge of occupational medicine could be given the right to write patients off sick for a shorter period of time and own the entire period of sick leave, such as one month, when the period of sick leave is clear and standardised, as we can call it, in the case of broken arms, broken bones and a variety of different and fairly general conditions of illness. So you should distinguish between short and simple and long and difficult and put the resources where they are needed. This would mean a system similar to what exists today, but with a far less complex control apparatus at Försäkringskassan, which does not meet the patient and thus cannot make the assessment in the same way as the medical doctor. With such a simplified model, the Social Insurance Agency would be given the opportunity and scope for a completely new kind of assessment at a longer period of sick leave that requires in-depth and careful assessment and forecasting of the future work capacity, for example by multi-disciplinary teams with health professionals, psychologists, curators and, not least, physiotherapists, who have actually been trained to assess both work capacity and the possibility of returning to work. The Liberals therefore believe, Madam President, that the Riksdag should follow the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to give the Swedish Social Insurance Agency a new assignment and set up an investigation, more than the announcement, which is in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-749	Madam President, I would like This issue is about how to get a more equal and equal process of sick leave and remove so-called inappropriate differences between men and women in the assessment of work capacity and sick leave periods. Women as a group have almost twice as high absenteeism as men, and the differences have increased. The Swedish National Audit Office, based on research, provides several explanations for this, including that we have a gender-segregated and unequal labour market with different performance requirements for men and women, different resources and salary positions, working hours and working environment that differ. But women also work more double than men and thus take greater responsibility for homes and children. These are factors that are categorized as factual differences, i.e. those that are known and measurable and motivate women to be prescribed sick more often and longer periods than men. Other factors, found in the care and primary care of the meeting between the doctor and the patient or the sick person, are referred to as inappropriate differences. The Swedish National Audit Office also has proposals for explanations for the inappropriate differences, and it is above all three explanations that all seem likely: The first is about the sick and attitudes of men and women. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that women are more open than men to be on sick leave and that men prefer other treatments to a greater extent. Thus, men and women tell about their illness in different ways and have different expectations of the doctor and of the sick leave. The second explanation is about doctors and about standards among them. Doctors are more likely to write women off sick than men. The third is about health care providers and that there are also different treatments and different ways of catching signals. The report states that health care providers underestimate men's disability and activity limitation. All three explanations are mainly about mental illness. We already know that mental illness is difficult to assess – it is nothing new. We can begin by stating that further measures are needed to achieve a more equivalent assessment of mental illness, work capacity and rehabilitation times linked to it. Here, the government has taken several measures, and other measures are under way, not least in the Health Insurance investigation, which submitted its second interim report just a few weeks ago and which comes with its final report just before the summer. Madam President, I would like One can think about what really separates the so-called factual from the inappropriate differences. Why are standards and attitudes in the meeting between the job seeker and the labour market, where men and women choose different sectors and sectors, and norms and attitudes in terms of responsibility for home and children, i.e. what we call gender roles, factual, while the same standards, attitudes and gender roles in the meeting between patients and doctors are inappropriate? We must remedy both, whether they are factual or inappropriate. It is not about men and women but about attitudes towards what is male and female. If we put a power aspect on this – which arises at every such meeting – we see that it is about gender. That's not new either. Health and ill-health, not least mental ill-health, have a gender – a culturally inherited gender. When I read the report from the Swedish National Audit Office, I came to think of The Dark Continent, a book by historian Karin Johannisson. I first read it as a student when it came out in the mid-1990s. I borrowed a copy of the Parliamentary Library. It is about the view of the woman's body and of the woman's diseases about 100 years ago, at the end of the 19th century and a bit into the 20th century. Similarities with today are very clear, especially with regard to mental illnesses, which also then grew and became the most common diagnoses forward in the 1920s – about 100 years ago. It is about a period of mining with urbanisation, industrialisation and new technologies as the underlying factors. We recognize a lot from today. Karin Johannisson wrote this book in 1994, before mental illness again became the most common diagnosis for sick leave. She does not make any direct historical comparisons in her study. But in the introduction she writes the following: Since the second half of the 19th century, the story is filled with stories about the poor woman, the sickly woman. She continues: Today, just as 100 years ago, the woman more often seeks care and uses more drugs than the man. She is overrepresented in psychiatric and chronic diagnosis. Although the position of women has changed dramatically, and despite equally dramatic changes in medicine, the link between women and nerves has remained strangely strong. Here we somehow have the historical explanation for the gender stereotyped norms and values that the Swedish National Audit Office so clearly describes and that take place in the meeting between the sick person and the doctor or the care. The fact that values have a history does not mean that they cannot be changed. If we are to solve the problem and not just the effects of the problem of an unequal labour market, unequal domestic work, unequal health care and an unequal process of sick leave, we must take political decisions that actually mean something. Madam President, I would like So here we have a case with a likely announcement from the opposition about an investigation, an increased administrative measure and a follow-up mission to the Social Insurance Agency which will probably not change anything. The Government has taken a number of measures that are reported in the Swedish National Audit Office's report – chapter. 6 – and also in the government's response to the report. To them should be added, for example, the health insurance inquiry, which I mentioned earlier and which will be reported later this spring, but also the investigation on parental insurance that came at the end of 2017. We have come a very long way in Sweden in terms of gender equality. But we are not there – far from it. What we need is a continued feminist government that continues to make proposals for greater equality. I hope, for example, that we can get support from the parties in Parliament for more reserved months in parental insurance. It would mean something for real for equality. Madam President, I would like I call for the approval of Amendment No 1 by Mr S. V. and Mr MP and for the rejection of all the motions and reservations contained in the report.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-768	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office carries out a large number of audits each year, and it is always as exciting to see how the current government receives the reviews. I find it frightening that we have a sick absence that is so unequal and as the National Audit Office points out. The process of sick leave has been reviewed, and there are clear indications here that men and women are judged differently despite the fact that there are no other differences. I agree with the Swedish National Audit Office that the differences they point to are inappropriate and that there is something that we cannot accept. Calculations made on the social loss of sick leave show that this cost in 2018 was SEK 64 billion. The cost does not include the actual cost of care, the payment of sickness benefit or rehabilitation costs. The socio-economic value highlighted is based on the loss of labour force in the labour market. In 2015, the cost was SEK 59 billion, and in 2018 it was SEK 64 billion. Large sums of money are being lost in our society because of sick leave that we might have been able to prevent if we had handled the process and seen signals earlier. Madam President, I would like I have had talks with the Medical Association that share my view of the increasingly escalating unpaid certificate writing to Försäkringskassan. As a doctor, it is a difficult problem to make an impartial assessment of a patient with mental illness in a short time. You don't have time to do that in 30 minutes. This means that the certificates are at risk of being substandard or that doctors are allowed to write the certificates in overtime, which the news has recently reported is also an increasingly growing problem. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, women are on sick leave almost twice as much as men. Determining work capacity is extremely complex and especially when a person suffers from psychiatric diagnoses. The Moderates have said in their previous proposal that there is a need for a special rehabilitation chain for psychiatric diagnoses, as it is not possible to assess a person's chances of returning to work in the same way in a psychiatric diagnosis as when the person has broken the foot. An objective assessment of the disability and the function of a person with a psychiatric diagnosis is difficult for the medical practitioner. What the doctor has to deal with is the person the doctor has in front of him, how he expresses himself, how he conveys his feeling, and how he has the opportunity to present his symptoms. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office points to the great inequality that exists in the sick leave process regarding psychiatric diagnoses. Madam President, I would like The review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office is based on 60,000 patients in Skåne for a number of years where the common denominator for patients was the diagnosis of mild or moderate mental illness. It shows with great clarity that women with mild or moderate mental illness are on sick leave 30 percent more than men at the same level of assessed work capacity. The report clearly states that nothing indicates that this gender gap can be explained by the fact that men and women have different occupations and work in different sectors and sectors or are motivated by the fact that women have worse health than men. By comparison, there is no corresponding difference among patients with pain diagnosis. Sick leave is higher in women-dominated industries and among parents. No statistically assured gender differences can be observed in men and women working in typically women-dominated industries. The gender gap between patients, on the other hand, is particularly marked among patients aged 31-40, who do not have children, are highly educated, have a relatively high income and are predominantly in male-dominated occupations. About 40 per cent of the gender difference can be explained by the difference in, for example, diagnosis, income, disability and activity limitation. The remaining part, 60%, cannot be explained. Madam President, I would like I wonder why the facts presented in the Swedish National Audit Office's report are so obvious and clear that the government parties are bypassing them. How can we not see the obvious need for action now? We cannot wait for the already large inequality we see in the process of sick leave on mental illness to continue to increase. We cannot stand passively and watch more and more women on sick leave with the diagnosis of mental illness. The Social Democratic Government says that it is feminist and pursues so-called feminist politics. This is exactly the opposite. Here we do not want to see the great inequality that exists between men and women, where women are on sick leave 30% more than men with the same diagnosis: mental illness. Our biggest and growing problem is that of the feminist government and leans back and says that it does enough on the issue. I can only regret the unwillingness of the feminist government to act and interpret it that it has resigned from its so-called feminist policy and does not want to see the inequality that prevails. A majority in the Social Security Committee has, in a statement to the Government, pointed out the importance of the Government commissioning the Social Insurance Agency to follow up how doctors write sick certificates and also to set up an investigation to combat inappropriate gender differences in sick leave. I therefore support the committee's proposal for a decision in the report.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-781	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal for a declaration. The background to the debate is the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the sick leave process, which indicates that there is an inappropriate difference in absenteeism between women and men with mild or moderate mental illness. The review shows that the inappropriate difference is particularly evident among patients aged 31 to 40, who do not have children, who are highly educated, who have a relatively high income and who primarily work in male-dominated industries. However, there is nothing in the result to suggest that the difference can be explained by the fact that women have worse health than men or that men and women work in different occupations or sectors. However, this examination does not answer the question as to whether the inappropriate differences are due to the fact that women are more or less on sick leave than the health insurance regulations allow. However, one possible explanation would be that, on average, women are more open to sick leave than men. Another one that has been heard is that women more than men seek care for preventive purposes. Research shows that women's absenteeism is increasing in relation to men's in connection with family formation. On the other hand, the Swedish National Audit Office has now recommended the Government to commission Försäkringskassan to regularly follow up medical certification writing for men and women at various health care providers. The idea is, of course, that one should be able to discover if there are systematic differences related to gender and different diagnoses. We Christian Democrats believe that this is a acquisition of knowledge that needs to be done. We have therefore called for this in our accompanying motion, and here we have a majority in the committee who think that way. Madam President, I would like This debate today has given a very clear message that there is broad political agreement among us that we should have a uniform assessment of the rights of insured persons to compensation based on health care assessments of the working capacity of women and men. We certainly do not disagree on that. We Christian Democrats can never accept differences based on gender. However, we believe that a better follow-up and analysis of medical certificates can give us the knowledge that is being called for. In this way, we can also see to it that we can work out how best to deal with the inquisitiveness that exists. As an effect of the follow-up, we will also be able to reduce uncertainty in the assessment of the patient's work capacity and at the same time strengthen the driving forces of health care to issue high-quality medical certificates. It is precisely this high-quality medical certificate that is essential to overcome and reduce the inappropriate differences. The investigator at the Swedish National Audit Office notes that women are written sick more than men despite the fact that their work capacity is the same, but also comes to the conclusion that there are no safe explanations for why this is the case. The committee's proposal for a decision here today is to contribute to creating more knowledge of why there is an inappropriateness. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-790	Madam President, I would like The committee is now debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on dark numbers in housing allowances. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 1. I think that the number of people who are entitled to the housing allowance but who do not apply or who are waiting to receive it is worrying. It is worrying that the question has not been resolved when you have had knowledge and worked on it for the last 15 years, at least. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in the report that the number of darkness remains high. At the same time, a certain number of darkness is likely to always exist. However, since it is an addition to the general pension, that is, part of our basic protection, just like the guarantee pension, it should be the Parliament's view that it should be as low as possible. When I read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, I see that it is noted that about one third of the country's old-age pensioners do not apply for the housing allowance even though they are entitled to it. Furthermore, the report shows that more than half of the people in the dark are classified as economically vulnerable, which means that they live on less than 60 percent of the median wage. The next step is classified as poverty. I shall remain with the group of old-age pensioners, Madam President. Here we see that if those who are eligible for the supplement had applied, the group of pensioners with a financially vulnerable situation would be reduced by 30%. It is also clear that in this group there are twice as many women as men who miss the housing allowance. As a result, the issue also touches on the work of equality, which our feminist government should take increasingly seriously. Madam President, I would like In my earlier work as a florist, I often, not to say daily, met pensioners who, with their little coin exchange in hand, listed the crowns on the counter to pay for the little pot plant that would adorn the kitchen table. Or those who visited the shop to enjoy a while, and even that month could not afford to treat themselves to their kitchen table. Now that I know in this role that we have such a large number of darkness in the housing supplement, it makes me even more badly affected, to say the least. It is directly bad that about one third of the eligible persons do not receive the additions that are available to them and that many of them are also economically weak. Madam President, I would like It is a kind and timed target group that generally does not want to stand with the cap in its hand, but instead adapts to the situation and lives increasingly poorly. This, in turn, can also lead to retirement exclusion and an increase in loneliness and involuntarily obvious. Madam President, I would like I find it unfortunate that no progress has been made on this issue. I still have to throw in a little brat. Capacity should be there, because we see how the government chooses to aggressively market certain subsidies that benefit other groups, and subsidies that flow out of the country. Madam President, I would like Of course, the causes of the dark number are several. One of the main reasons, according to the National Pensioners' Association, is that the information does not even reach pensioners sufficiently. However, it is also a question of failing to apply, partly because of the lack of a computer. Continued digitalisation is of paramount importance and something that we absolutely must strive for, but it must not be done at the expense of a limited flow of information to those who do not have this opportunity. It must be ensured that the information reaches everyone, regardless of whether you have access to a computer or not. It has also emerged that the application procedure is considered complex and that simplification would be a good way to facilitate the application. Here too we support the Swedish National Audit Office, which believes that simplification and automation should be developed. Madam President, I would like What should also be added is that, as the Pension Agency has been working on this issue, the processing times have increased and are currently up to six months. As I understand it, this also affects the number of darkness, which in itself may seem strange. However, quite apart from this, the length of processing times and the problems of getting in touch with the authority can act as a deterrent in itself. Personally, I can feel a degree of frustration about being flunked through various phone voices asking me to make a lot of choices to end up right in the telephone line, if I am lucky. PRO states that the extremely long waiting times on the telephone, combined with the speeding up of processing times, make many pensioners feel abandoned. Of course, the Pension Agency does as best you can and refers mainly to the web. Madam President, I would like In general, I believe that many of our pensioners at an early age may have some difficulty navigating there. Finally, Madam President, we note that the purpose of the government's distributional policy is not achieved in terms of the number of darknesses. The Swedish Democrats believe that measures should be implemented as quickly as possible. We also believe that there is a need to look further at how to simplify the process and automate and increase communication and support so that the eligible person has access to the supplement for which money has been allocated.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-807	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The housing supplement is an important part of the Swedish welfare model, which counteracts financial vulnerability among some of the most fragile groups we have in society. For many who are eligible for housing allowance, it plays a crucial role in the economy. I am therefore pleased that at the end of the year we were able to make a much-needed increase in the housing allowance for old-age pensioners. For the same reason, it is worrying that people who could be entitled to housing allowance are not allowed access to it. This is what this matter is about. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the dark numbers in the housing supplement, i.e. how many can potentially be eligible but who do not receive housing supplement and why they do not receive it. This applies both to old-age pensioners, who are managed by the Pension Agency, and to persons with sickness and activity benefits, for whom the Social Insurance Agency is responsible. Exactly how big the dark number is is is impossible to say. In a rough estimate, the Swedish National Audit Office mentions 40 000 insured persons with sickness and activity benefits and 129 000 old-age pensioners, who could potentially receive the housing allowance but who for various reasons do not seek it or take part of it. This appreciation is subject to great uncertainty because, for example, we have not looked at the wealth of the people in this group, but it is clear that it still gives an indication of the problem. I would like to say that the main contribution of the Swedish National Audit Office to the discussion is to demonstrate that ignorance and stigma cause a dark number of people who could receive financial support in the form of housing allowances but who do not currently have it. This may have several reasons, such as a technically complex regulatory framework or an unwillingness on the part of individuals to receive grants. This may also be due to the fact that, due to cognitive impairments or old age, the insured person has special needs in his/her contacts with authorities that are not fully satisfied in order to complete an application. But it's also about myths. I often find different misconceptions, such as the fact that you cannot get housing allowance if you live in a right-of-occupancy apartment or if you have a savings account at the bank. That is not true, and perhaps we all need to help each other to spread knowledge to loved ones and others around us. The fact that there are people who could receive housing allowance but who miss it is deeply regrettable and problematic whether it is essentially due to ignorance, various taboos or difficulties in providing the authorities with documentation on income, wealth and housing. After several studies in this area and various simplification efforts, we can see that there is probably no magic formula for removing the dark figure. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that a certain number of dark people will probably always be there. But there's probably more to do to keep it as low as possible. That is our view, and I think that there is a consensus on that part. The Government has replied to the Swedish National Audit Office that it agrees that a low number of darkness is desirable. Then the government has also acted: In the regulation letter for the current year, Försäkringskassan has been commissioned to map the dark numbers of people with sickness and activity benefits and to report the efforts that have been made to reduce the extent of the dark numbers. It is therefore exactly in accordance with what the Swedish National Audit Office has recommended. I therefore think that an announcement is completely unnecessary. It would be breaking wide open doors. I would also like to remind you that, in addition to the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office, the Government has set a target in the regulation letter to the Pension Authority to shorten the processing times for new applications for housing allowance to a maximum of 60 days at the end of this year and a maximum of 40 days at the end of next year. The length of the proceedings has indeed been far too long, and I think it is exemplary that the government has acted in this part too so that vulnerable groups do not suffer unnecessarily. To return to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations, they also propose an investigation to give Försäkringskassan direct access to the Tax Agency's tax database. It is a question of simplifying the processing process and the control of the data submitted. On this particular point, I might think that the target is slightly missed. It must probably be considered unlikely that this would have the desired effect precisely on the problem of dark numbers because the authority already has access to this information through an automated question-answer-system. Direct access to the database does not solve either the problem of ignorance or stigma, nor does it solve the problem of collecting or controlling data relating to wealth and housing. Then it is much more interesting to increase the system of information dissemination and to develop similar services to those already available on the Pension Agency's website, where it is possible to obtain a preliminary assessment of the right to housing allowance. To conclude, Madam President, I note once again that there is a broad consensus in this area, both politically and between the actors involved, about the ambition to reduce the blackout and economic vulnerability. I welcome the fact that the government has acted and that it is prepared to continue to take action. There are certainly many different ways to both increase knowledge about and lower the thresholds to apply for or register interest in taking part in the housing supplement that you are potentially entitled to. Although the Swedish National Audit Office's review probably cannot be said to come up with the golden solution to the problem, it is good that the review has been done. It sheds light on the question. Ultimately, it is about facilitating some of the most vulnerable in our society. As a social democrat, I am inspired by narrowing the gaps that pull our society apart. That is why this is an important issue for us to find a solution to. Ignorance and stigmatisation should never be allowed to stand in the way of taking part in the security systems that exist to reduce financial vulnerability.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-824	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the dark numbers in the housing supplement shows a huge failure to guarantee the welfare of those who are in the toughest situation. 40% of those who receive sickness and activity benefits and 129,000 of old-age pensioners risk losing an average of SEK 1 300 a month to which they are actually entitled. Money that would end up with poor pensioners and sick people will not be paid out. It is a bureaucratic mockery of those who live on the lowest incomes. It would therefore be possible to reduce financial vulnerability considerably by paying out the benefits to which people are entitled. Yet it does not happen. Madam President, I would like In fact, politics should be ashamed of itself. What kind of society can produce advanced technology, space research and signal reconnaissance but cannot even ensure that what our pensioners and old-age pensioners are entitled to are paid out? The darker numbers in the housing supplement are a problem that leads to increased poverty. Madam President, I would like The ceiling in the housing allowance for old-age pensioners was raised this year from SEK 5 600 per month to SEK 7 000 per month for unmarried persons and SEK 3 500 for married persons. Persons with sickness and activity benefits are also entitled to the housing allowance but may not benefit from the same increase. What's the government thinking? Do they think that rents, milk and petrol are cheaper for pensioners than for old-age pensioners? Madam President, I would like Linda is 57 years old. She's been affected by the disease ME. She is ashamed that she cannot pay her own bills; her daughter has to pay. Linda usually calls me while she's in bed. She can have the phone lying next to her; she can talk. That her daughter has to spend money, she thinks it's worse than the disease itself. We cannot continue to humiliate people like that. The RUT deduction, apparently, we can make it work. This deduction leaks 5.3 billion annually from the Treasury, and now it will go out even more. It also goes to the 10% richest. There are deductions already filled out when booking the service. It should be easy to pull off. In 2018, the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats reduced the tax by up to 20 billion for those who already have everything and did not invest a penny in health insurance. And as if that were not enough, the government, the Centre Party and the Liberals' budget this year meant 6 billion to the absolute elite of society with the abolition of the military tax. Madam President, I would like If the Left Party budget had instead been in place, the guarantee pension and the guarantee level of the sickness and activity benefit would have been increased by just over SEK 1 000 per month. The tax gap between those who work and those who have a pension or sickness and activity benefit had been closed for income up to 35 000 SEK per month. We also proposed that the housing allowance for persons with sickness and activity benefits should be increased in the same way as for old-age pensioners – of course! The Left Party will come back with concrete proposals to address the problems described by the National Audit Office and ensure that those who are entitled to housing allowances also receive it. It's the least we can do. I refer to our particular opinion.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-835	Madam President, I would like Health promotion and prevention is one of the most important things a society can focus on. Unfortunately, the debate is all too often about health care rather than about how we do so that fewer individuals get ill health and disease. Of course, not all diseases can be prevented, but we in politics can do much more in this area. The Moderates are the party that has presented the first health promotion and prevention exercise in the Swedish Parliament, which I am very proud of and which I will return to in my speech. But first: the Social Affairs Committee has, fortunately, agreed to propose two announcements to the government. First of all, we want to review whether the disease control act fulfils its role in terms of information obligations for HIV-positive people. Secondly, we want the government to develop preventive measures to promote LGBTQ people's mental health. Madam President, I would like We Moderates think it is time to develop and implement a national health promotion strategy. Sweden must work more coherently, coordinatedly and systematically with measures that are health-promoting, preventive and long-term. Based on current governance and organisation of health care, there are challenges, as prevention is usually a low priority in healthcare. Sweden therefore needs to develop a national health promotion strategy that can provide clear guidelines and action plans in order to strengthen and streamline preventive health work in Sweden. We believe that forms and regulations should be created that allow for new forums and arenas for proactive health promotion. For example, it may be that you can do health checks at the pharmacy. Here, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to support our reservation l. Healthy lifestyles such as daily movement, healthy eating habits, healthy weight, and not smoking are good for your health. Do you know how much of all cancer can be prevented? In fact, at least one third of all cancer, according to the Swedish Cancer Society, can be prevented by healthy living habits. The National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that at least 20 percent of all diseases in Sweden can be prevented if we improve our lifestyles as a whole. Of course, heart attacks, even though they have eaten healthy and exercise daily, still affect people. There is, of course, no guarantee. But to give advice and support early on about physical activity and healthy eating habits, already at the maternity centre and the child health centre, is important as many of our behaviors are established in the first few years. Care training should include more prevention and disease prevention. There is a need for more professions in healthcare with health promotion skills such as physiotherapists, occupational therapists, nutritionists and health coaches. Our role in politics is to make it easier for citizens to make healthy choices, not to come up with points and bans. It is the access to support, knowledge, inspiration and cooperation that we should focus on. A stated goal for politics should be to build an active, healthy Sweden that is sustainable for the long term for all residents. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to reform physical activity on prescriptions, which is a method to motivate more people to carry out a physical health-promoting activity. It can be about reviewing the availability of prescriptions so that they are available throughout the country, regardless of where you live, as well as reviewing the ability to follow the prescription, as it may vary due to the patient's ability to pay. It could also mean meeting a personal trainer for setup and support. Another proposal is to review whether a tax reduction for physical exercise and fitness care like the RUT deduction could be a working method. Madam President, I would like There are many good examples of healthy projects in the country. But that's it: they're in project form, and when the money's over, the project is over. We need to get better at getting the implementation into regular operations from the start if it turns out that the project came out well. I spoke in last year's public health debate about my municipality Kungsbacka in Halland County, where we have been working together for ten years between the region, i.e. health care, the municipality, i.e. school and leisure, associations and business. The method reaches children with overweight or obesity in combination with mental or physical ill health, which often led to school absence. This is a working collaborative model that includes physical, mental and social health and which, fortunately, has spread to several municipalities in Halland and other parts of the country. Madam President, I would like Why am I once again highlighting this example? Well, here we are debating public health issues on the basis of the responsibility of the Social Committee, and I would say that in order to bring about change at community level, the debate must also include other committee areas where non-profit organisations – who are doing such a great job – become natural partners for civil society and business. You can work for healthy cities, involve construction companies who are happy to be involved in sustainability and health, see outdoor life as a health-promoting resource, invest in safe cycling routes so that there is an opportunity for everyday movement and invite sports associations to school and recreation centres – yes, the opportunities are endless. But it is necessary that we really work over the organisational drains at national, regional and municipal level. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to tell you once again how proud I feel that my party The Moderates are putting in Parliament's first prevention motion. I would like to thank all the organisations that have helped us to further improve this exercise, which, my friends, means that for the next period of exercise we have moderates an even sharper exercise.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-850	Madam President, I would like Now we have entered a new decade, and it is time to look ahead. While looking ahead, we must see the value of learning from what has been and letting it be a compass for the future political direction, because we have a lot to do. Over the past ten years, some 15 000 people have died from mental illness. Suicide, which is the ultimate consequence of mental illness, should not be considered a choice. It is a psychological accident – an accident that can be prevented with the right measures. Twelve years have passed since the Riksdag adopted a zero vision for suicide. And during these twelve years we have not been able to bring about any change in the high suicide rates in Sweden. I really find that remarkable. If we compare the zero vision of suicide with the very successful zero vision of road deaths, the following conclusion can be drawn: multi-billion long-term investment in concrete actions, targeted research, follow-up and evaluation produce results. As far as suicide is concerned, we do not even have concrete and serious targets for how to work towards a reduction in the number of suicides. There are still no plans to set up a national coordinator for a comprehensive national suicide prevention work, and when officials decide to close down a well-functioning support function such as the helpline, our government stands paralyzed. It says quite a lot about the real will to bring about change. One might wonder why it is possible to work long-term, strategic and well-structured when it comes to road deaths, but not when it comes to suicide, even though six times more people die from suicide than in traffic. Madam President, I would like It is not someone else's responsibility, it is our responsibility. It is time to end the failures of previous decades and make sure that we are now working for change. First of all, we must stop doing what we have always done and dare to try something new. We must recognise the importance of working on mental health issues in a completely different way. Mental health and mental illness are now, broadly speaking, limited to health policy and public health policy. In order to strengthen mental health in society and at the same time respond to the increase in mental illness, a thorough understanding is required of the fact that mental health is an area that affects several policy areas and a variety of levels of society. It is therefore also high time to bring mental health together into a policy area that governs action in other policy areas, i.e. a single starting point for political governance and all efforts in this area. We need to work on the issue from a holistic perspective. Mental health needs to be addressed with long-term and well-thought-out measures where national governance is purpose-oriented and clear. It is time to stop quarterly policy once and for all and realise that we must have a serious plan that is long-term and runs over several years. If we succeed in doing so, we can also have the joy of analysing a completely different result when we enter the next decade. Madam President, I would like Suicide occurs in all groups. It is, as we know, widespread in young people. At the same time, suicide is more common in the elderly, especially older men, and the group of women represents the largest proportion of suicide attempts. There is also a group that is particularly affected, and that is LGBTQ people. In LGBTQ people, mental disorders are more common than in the rest of the population, and therefore the Swedish Democrats also want to see more specific efforts to promote LGBTQ people's mental health. We need to broaden the existing work and adopt more specific measures than training measures, because what we are doing today is far too simple and far from sufficient. First of all, we need to work preventively to minimise the risk of mental illness developing in the group. We also need to promote more knowledge-based and equal care throughout the country. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats have put forward proposals for national guidelines with a focus on prevention where we also highlight the importance of psychological support as a primary treatment method in, for example, gender dysphoria. Another important factor is the crucial role of research in sustainable knowledge development. We need to ensure the development of evidence-based methods in both healthcare and social services. It is therefore also highly topical that we establish a national research programme for mental health where there is scope for research related to LGBTQ people's mental health and the presence of suicide in general. With more knowledge and the right efforts, we will be able to prevent four people in Sweden taking their own lives every day. We can prevent someone from losing their best friend, sister, or perhaps their beloved father. We can prevent these terrible tragedies. We can do better, and the responsibility is ours to take. Finally, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 8.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-866	Madam President, I would like The avoidable differences in health should be removed within a generation. This is the overall objective of Sweden's public health policy. If that objective is to be achieved, more effort is needed than what we are doing today. We are doing quite well in terms of public health internationally, but we have far too large health gaps in society that we need to do more to stop. Three important factors are educational attainment, socio-economic background and age. The first challenge we see is about the level of education. The level of education in particular has a major impact on health rates. The difference in health between those who have an upper secondary education and those who do not have it is very large. When a connection is so strong and clear, society should do more. Ending comprehensive school without complete grades is a strong contributor to later health problems. Here the government should have made efforts to ensure that young people actually leave school with full grades. The second challenge we can see is the gap between those born in another country and those born in Sweden. Above all, it is about work. The risk is much greater for those born in another country to suffer from long-term unemployment and long-term dependency on benefits, which in itself is also a risk factor for ill health. The fact that we are investing in efforts that make it easier and cheaper for companies to hire is therefore also strongly linked to public health work and an important effort that the state would have to make. The third challenge we face is mental illness. Especially in the group of older people we see that we find it difficult to catch up on this problem. The mental ill-health of the elderly needs to be better highlighted and recognised in primary care than at present. The Center Party has therefore tabled a proposal, which was debated in this House last week, that we want to introduce an older health care programme which, among other things, should capture precisely involuntary loneliness and mental ill-health among the elderly. The proposals we are debating in this House today span many areas of life and sectors – ranging from mental illness to prevention and vaccination. Perhaps both the breadth and the amount of proposals and efforts can give the impression that it is difficult or almost impossible to achieve more equal conditions and opportunities. In fact, however, I believe that the opposite is true. The breadth of the living conditions that contribute to health gaps means that there are both simpler and more complex changes in all sectors and that all actors can contribute something. The question is how we can steer public health work so that it actually has an impact where it is needed most. Public health is about preventive, broad action aimed at larger groups in society. It is also about pinpointing problems and working intensively against individuals or smaller groups. Sweden has a long tradition of working preventively with, for example, child health programmes, maternal health programmes and general vaccination programmes. These programmes are based on volunteering, high knowledge and trust between the profession and the individual. They are good examples of an effective and good system that we must protect and develop because it has positive effects on public health. For example, if we look at the general vaccination programmes offered to all children and parents, we can see that 97% of today's two-year-olds are vaccinated. That's a high number we should be proud of. This high proportion indicates that we have a well-functioning system based precisely on the desire to actually vaccinate. It also indicates that parents feel confident about the knowledge they receive and trust in care. These are values that are incredibly important for us to continue to have a high percentage of vaccinations. The Center Party wants vaccinations to continue to be based on voluntary, high knowledge and trust rather than coercion, pointers and punishment. Another broad effort aimed at large groups is about physical activity and movement. The fact that physical activity has a great positive effect on our health has probably not been missed. Nevertheless, we are moving less and less. Especially worrying is the development of our children and young people, where we can see that sedentary and overweight are increasing. The individual himself, of course, has a great responsibility for his physical activity and health in general. But society can do much to promote good health and stimulate more activity and movement in everyday life. Public health work must therefore permeate the entire construction of society – everything from how we plan our residential areas, walking and cycling paths, the public common space inside villages and cities to how we design our working day and schedule movement and pulse-enhancing activity in school for our children. All these efforts have a bearing on public health. It is not only among children that these efforts are important. Movement and physical activity are also particularly important within the older group. That is why I support Amendment No 14, which deals with physical activity on prescriptions. Although I am pleased that today we can take decisions on two announcements supported by the Center Party, which are of great importance for public health policy, the Center Party takes very seriously the fact that the gaps linked to education and socio-economic background are increasing in society. Here we must not let go of focus, but instead we need to change the work in order to close the health gaps within a generation.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-883	Madam President, I would like We live in a society where, unfortunately, health gaps are increasing. It is also a question of increasing inequality. I do not think this can be solved with just public health, because it is a question of structures, distribution and so on. My entire speech will be about the work against suicide because it is part of preventive public health work. Suicide is a major social and public health problem. Every year, 1,500 people take their lives. It's a suicide every six hours, or four lives a day. Another 15 000 people a year try to kill themselves and 150 000 have serious suicidal thoughts. So many are concerned, the people themselves and their families, friends and so on. Can Suicide Be Prevented? Yes, of course you can. But then we have to do more. As one previous speaker said, we can compare with another area of zero vision, namely traffic. Here the number of deaths has been reduced, perhaps because you have been focused, made improvements, all the time measured and been very on. We do not see similar efforts in the case of suicide, even though it dies six times more in suicide than in the case of traffic. Much more should therefore be done in this area. Madam President, I would like Men are heavily overrepresented when it comes to suicide. It's been known for a long time. The same applies to the LGBTQ group. Here we need to dig and do analyses and seriously look at both gender and LGBTQ perspectives to move forward. Madam President, I would like There is also a need to develop clear guidelines on how regional work against suicide can be strengthened for the groups at risk, because this is the responsibility. Government and parliament have tried to prevent suicide, and in 2008 a zero vision was adopted. That no one should have to take their own life is the mission itself. But only a zero vision will never be enough. In transport policy, a clear pattern emerges where the zero vision is complemented by a variety of concrete and measurable measures. For example, Trafikverket continuously analyses serious accidents in traffic, which is great. This should also be done for suicide. It is necessary to follow up the zero vision regionally and nationally and evaluate the zero vision, otherwise nothing will happen. Madam President, I would like Suicide can be prevented in a number of ways, for example by ensuring that care is prepared, competent and offensive and by analysing the suicides that occur. Even people who have been in contact with care commit suicide. It is not a small number who walk away without having been helped. Here we have to lift the lid and see what is happening in the care, or rather what is not happening in the care. This can be considered. Many people have a great need to be admitted, but this is ignored. This is ultimately a matter for the regions. Madam President, I would like The health and social care inspection shall regularly compile and analyse reported suicide events and then return the results to the health and social care providers. Today, however, there is no reliable analysis of what has happened; instead, it is a big question mark. The fact that all available knowledge of suicide in connection with care must be compiled is self-evident. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants an appropriate authority to be tasked with investigating how preventive work against suicide can be strengthened regionally and become more effective. It is important to perform a health analysis of suicides and suspected suicides. It is important for relatives and research and for how we will continue to work. It is also important to improve the knowledge of each individual suicide in order to further strengthen care. This goes without saying. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants an appropriate authority to analyse how each individual suicide can be investigated and lead to improved prevention. We need more information on how suicide can be prevented. We also need to talk more about suicide. It is still a rather taboo subject. Madam President, I would like We want an appropriate authority to be given the task of developing a national information package on mental illness and suicide specifically aimed at health care, social services, school, parents and other relatives. We need to have more knowledge, and we definitely need to work on this issue more effectively. We can do more. I am in favour of reservation 6, which concerns the whole of this area.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-903	Madam President, I would like Preventing ill health and illness is the best investment for both the country's inhabitants and society at large. Knowledge of the importance of good nutrition, exercise and a healthy lifestyle is available today in the vast majority of Sweden. Public health is developing positively, and life expectancy is increasing. At the same time, stress, mental illness, smoking, alcohol risk, sedentary, overweight and other health problems are increasing in some groups. The Christian Democrats' public health policy aims to support the individual in making healthy choices. It should be easy to do the right thing. We Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 3. The Public Health Agency is responsible for coordinating public health work at the state level and will contribute to collaboration in efforts for good and equal health and support the state, regions and municipalities in the implementation and follow-up of public health work. Ensuring successful and long-term prevention of public health requires a clear national strategy with guidelines and an action plan with concrete milestones based on evidence. This is something that is missing today and, in our opinion, the government should ensure that it is created immediately. There are still significant health benefits to be achieved through more preventive work. Estimates show that at least one third of cardiovascular diseases and one third of the twelve major cancers could be prevented by changing lifestyles. Madam President, I would like A national strategy for asthma and allergy is needed. Allergy and hypersensitivity are one of the most common chronic diseases in Sweden. Over 3 million people in the country suffer from some form of allergy or hypersensitivity. The incidence is steadily increasing, and it is today one of our major diseases in Sweden. Through increased knowledge and efforts in prevention, it is possible to reduce allergies and thus patients' and society's costs. In order to succeed on a larger scale, knowledge of allergy needs to be disseminated in society so that prevention becomes an integral part of more activities – in primary care, in school, in childcare, in environmental work, in working life, in the construction sector, etc. A specific national strategy is now needed to stop the increase in allergies and hypersensitivity through targeted actions. Special attention should be paid to the needs of children in this area. Madam President, I would like There is a need for reinforced work on suicide prevention. As many people have mentioned here today, there are about 1,500 people taking their lives in Sweden every year. Suicide is still surrounded by ignorance, stigma and shame. By gaining a better understanding of how big the problem is and what we can contribute, we can prevent the tragedies. Prevention of self-harm, suicide attempts and suicide must be strengthened. It is therefore important that knowledge and evidence-based methods are developed in order to identify risk groups and thus be able to target specific preventive actions at people in these risk groups. The government must strengthen its work in this part. In order to ensure effective prevention, it is essential to follow up the adaptation and implementation of the National Programme of Suicide Prevention at regional as well as municipal level. These action plans may also include work on first-line healthcare in municipalities and regions. A reporting obligation is needed for healthcare and social services in the event of suicide. Until 1 September 2017, it was mandatory to report to IVO for external investigations according to lex Maria if someone committed suicide within four weeks of the last contact with the care. But the National Board of Health and Welfare changed its regulations, and the obligation to notify was abolished because there was no legal support for it. In order to best work preventively to reduce the number of suicides, national statistics highlight the situation. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that we need to introduce notification requirements for health care and social services for every suicide. Madam President, I would like I and the Christian Democrats are pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs is proposing two announcements to the government on which we agree in principle. It is about the importance of working for preventively targeted interventions to LGBT people and raising awareness of the group's conditions and living conditions in order to reduce their ill health and the difference that exists in relation to other people. We also welcome the announcement of the obligation to inform HIV-positive people. Effective treatment means that HIV infection today is not a fatal disease but a chronic infection. It is always the treating doctor who makes the medical assessment and adapts the rules of conduct. The committee is therefore of the opinion that the government should initiate a review of the Disease Control Act with an analysis if it fulfils its purpose as regards the information obligation for HIV-positive people. Madam President, I would like Through increased knowledge and evidence-based methods, we can improve public health. And most importantly, we can save lives!
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-917	Madam President, I would like This is a report by the Commission. Two years ago, we here in Parliament decided on the objectives of public health policy and on how target work should be carried out in a number of sectors of society, where health care and social services are only part of it. So it is a broad programme that we have supported. Now that we are dealing with a committee report, there is more impact on various issues that we want to highlight in particular. That means, to say the least, it gets a little sprawling. An example is what has been put forward here about suicide. It is extremely important to have a zero vision there, but we have slightly different thoughts about how to implement it in a way that is better than before. We Liberals have reservation No 11, which deals with vaccination programmes for people over the age of 65. We have a vaccination programme for children, but although there is good evidence of the importance of vaccinating year-rich people against, for example, flu, pneumococcals, diphtheria, shingles and so on, we do not have a programme there. That is why we want to highlight this. After all, it is a generation that is particularly vulnerable to the negative consequences of these diseases. It feels a little like ageism has struck here. Of course, vaccination programmes for children are self-evident, but in the Liberals we think it would be the same obvious with a vaccination programme for those who are on the last part of the life journey and are particularly vulnerable to the negative consequences of these diseases. Then there are two announcements that are particularly pleasing to me, which have been dealing with LGBT questions for so long. There is legislation in place almost entirely. Today we have discussed host motherhood, which is a topical issue also for LGBT people, and the legislative improvements for children and mothers that we need. This is a legislative issue in which we have to roll up our sleeves and move on. What we have to fight is prejudice. It's about prejudice that's left behind and that's why so many LGBTQ people suffer from mental illness. I am very pleased with the announcement that the most appropriate authority is going to take action to help. Then it's not just about putting in help for those who are affected, but at the bottom of it is to fight the homophobia that exists in our society – it's just scraping a little on the surface, and we see it. Then there is the obligation to inform those who have been infected with HIV and who are so well treated today that they are not contagious. I started with that question in 2011. In 2014, my Liberal Party supported this, and now we are writing 2020. Politics takes time. But I am extremely pleased that the obligation to inform can now become history. We have reason to be happy here, but this is especially true of all those who have been infected with HIV. They have gone through a journey of fear in their surroundings and their own fear of what will happen to their lives in the future. For them, it is now a relief to decide for themselves whether to tell them that they have undergone this disease and that they are being treated and not contagious. After all, they still live with lifelong treatment. The rest of us who do not need it do not really understand what it means, except, of course, people with diabetes and other diseases. I know a lot of people were planning to celebrate tonight. Unfortunately, we have passed the voting time, and next week it will be free of parliament, so the celebration will have to be postponed for two weeks. But if you have waited since the beginning of the 2000s or since 2011, you can probably wait for two more weeks. I request the approval of reservation 11.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-926	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Social Affairs Committee's proposal. Public health for me as an ocial democrat is all about life. It is about how we live, if we have access to education and work, and if we experience security and social belonging and if we can be healthy. Today, unfortunately, many people live in an alienation where it can distinguish up to ten years of life depending on where you were born and in which neighborhood you live. Many children do not get the start of life they deserve. Above all, we need to see a society in which Parliament, municipalities and regions together take greater responsibility for ensuring that good public health is accessible to all citizens. The Public Health Authority has therefore been given the Government's mandate to report the results of public health to all citizens on a regular basis. Sharp, measurable targets are now being developed in spring 2020. The government is clear that we must be better able to evaluate society's efforts in the field of public health. Only then can we see if the work is useful, and at the latest we can work towards the goal of rooting inequality for a generation. The journey to a good life begins already in the mother's stomach, and to give a good start society needs to spend resources on supporting good parenting and offering good growing-up conditions. In addition to generous parental insurance, society needs to offer well-developed f amiljecentraler, open preschools and an accessible preschool with moderate children's groups. We know from the research that the child's access to language, social and cognitive development in childhood affects the child's future health, ability to take in knowledge and, in an extension, the possibility of employment and self-sufficiency. Madam President, I would like Even physical activity and good eating habits are formed early. Unfortunately, we are also seeing uneven developments here. B rn in our vulnerable areas develops obesity to a greater extent than children in other neighbourhoods. Society must take greater responsibility here, and through preschools and schools should offer more sugar-free alternatives and increase physical activity. It is certainly good to have more sports hours in school – I and the Social Democrats are entirely behind this. But it's even better with organized play during the break, so that even those who don't like sport like to participate and activate themselves. When we build new residential areas or rearrange older districts, more playgrounds and other areas need to be created for spontaneous play. We need to make sure to create more green spaces and more walking and cycling paths, so that the spontaneous activity in leisure time and on the way to work or school really takes place. When it comes to stimulating pleasurable physical activity, very positive things happen in Sweden today. We therefore need to be better at highlighting good examples, such as Generation Pep with Carolina Klüft at the forefront. They are actively working to increase physical mobility in preschool, school and community life in a positive way. I thought maybe we should do a little exercise here. No. Madam President, I would like We know that more people commit suicide than die in traffic. Above all, middle-aged men choose that solution. In a humanitarian society, we need to be better at detecting and preventing suicide. We must care and dare to ask when we see that people around us are mentally unwell. It's a way of caring and a civic duty, I think. In the January agreement, the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals have agreed to combat mental illness. This includes strengthening suicide prevention through increased resources for the dissemination of knowledge and support for organisations that work preventively. Last year, aid for this purpose was increased, so now some 20 million are allocated annually to this important work. The Government has also commissioned the Public Health Agency to make proposals on how a specific function for mental health and suicide prevention could be established by 2021, which several have been involved in. It would have a coordinated responsibility. It is also of great importance that elderly people with mental illness receive the help they need. Here, SKR, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, has started work to support those who work in social services so that they can capture mental illness among older people. We know that the incidence of mental illness is greater among LGBTQ people than among the population in general. Unfortunately, we live in a society where discrimination and invisibility are everyday for LGBT people. It therefore feels good that the Social Affairs Committee is making a announcement to the government that further efforts are needed to reduce inequalities in ill-health between LGBTQ people and others. Finally, Madam President. In a country like Sweden it should be safe to grow up. It should not play a decisive role in your health which neighborhood or part of the country you were born in. Society must take a greater compensatory role to smooth out class differences. Here, access to support in the role of parents, through, for example, family centres, can provide better opportunities for children to grow up. School and community life have an important part to play in raising and providing education, but also in giving children and young people the opportunity to physically activate and access good and healthy nutrition. Citizens of Sweden who are mentally ill should feel that they have a good support in the community, through fellow people and through the municipality and health care. As has been said, a basic condition for good is to feel involved, to be important and to be sought after. It is of great importance that the Riksdag works towards a better and more equal public health – on the contrary, as many have done, and not only in the Social Affairs Committee. Nevertheless, I must mention, Ulrika, that we have set up a health care network in the Social Committee. We've done that all over the place. A Social Democrat and a Moderate have formed a wellness network – it is Ulrika Jörgensen and signed. We will try to focus on these issues as best we can.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-947	Madam President, I would like A lot has happened in Sweden since the first person was diagnosed with AIDS in 1982. From having been a death sentence only decades ago, it is now considered a chronic and treatable disease. Thanks to the medical advances made and the treatment available, the life expectancy of HIV-positive people is as long as that of the general population. The HIV epidemic in Sweden was not as extensive as many believed 30 to 40 years ago. With a well-defined treatment, viral levels are undetectable and infectious. Nevertheless, a remnant of an old prejudiced view of HIV persists – the obligation to inform. If there is no infection, there should also be no need to inform your sexual partner about your HIV infection. The vast majority of people infected with HIV in Sweden are also infected by people who are unaware of their status. One can almost say that it would be more reasonable to have a duty of information for untested people instead. As Unaids pointed out, Sweden should remove the obligation to inform, not least because this is a group that lives under great stigma. It is my hope and the Moderates' hope that the review of the Disease Control Act that Parliament is now demanding will lead to us being able to relieve another burden from a group that lives under very great stigma. This is a very broad report on public health as a whole. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight another area, apart from the obligation to provide information, which is very important. This is the second announcement that we are discussing in this debate, namely the one on the mental health of LGBT people. We know that LGBT people have worse mental health than heterosexuals. Suicide thoughts are more common. More people suffer from addiction, anxiety and depression compared to the general population. It is therefore extremely important that the government now ensures that we get proper preventive work, so that LGBTQ people are strengthened in their mental health. We are pleased and pleased that the committee was able to agree on this announcement, but we Moderates would have liked to have gone a little further. Given that the support and prevention of mental illness for LGBT people differ so much around Sweden, it would probably be good to have a little more government control. A clear example of this is that only half of the regions today have interventions specific to the mental health of LGBT people. There is simply more to be done in this area, but I am pleased that we are taking a step here today.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-954	Madam President, I would like We are facing the slowly growing death. A global health threat sinks like a dark shadow over our world. It is a threat that is already here and that kills more people than if two large aircraft crashed every week and everyone in the aircraft would die. But it doesn't happen like a crash... unexpectedly and explosively. It does not happen as with the SARS or the Corona virus – the whole world is today equipped with the beautiful multilateral system to trigger all crisis management. No, it's sneaking up on me. But, Madam President, it is 33 000 people a year who die only in Europe as a result of antibiotic resistance. Surely that number is swindling! This is almost incomprehensible. It can be widened: 700 000 people a year die around the world. The medicine that has made us feel safe when we have had pneumonia or a urinary tract infection is no longer comprehensive. The problem is that the crisis has already gone very far. New forms of antibiotics are difficult to research. Now we are faced with the fact that we must do everything we can to save the antibiotics that we have. We need to reduce use – we need to do it globally. We must also take care of ourselves by inoculating ourselves. There, my friends, we are good in Sweden – both when it comes to counteracting antibiotic resistance and having a high degree of vaccination. 97% of children aged two years are vaccinated in Sweden through the paediatric vaccination programme. That's a high number. We're good at it. But we also have a big problem. There is a lot of misinformation in this area. WHO has said that one of the ten biggest health threats in 2019 was misinformation about vaccines. We must work purposefully here. Madam President, I would like Sweden is good at being restrictive in the use of antibiotics. But we also have to work globally, and we do. Yesterday the government decided on a new strategy for the use of antibiotics, and it is really good. Here we are moving forward in our work. Madam President, I would like A lot of people remember the horror that spread in the '80s. HTLV – 3 dusting down in the middle of the happy 80's – fear, stigma, uncertainty. You didn't know if you could wipe tears without gloves. It is amazing that today you can live a perfectly normal life if you have had the bad luck of suffering this virus! You're no longer contagious. Madam President, I would like It is so good that a united committee has come to the conclusion that we should go further and review the CDC. You shouldn't have to inform your partner, or the person you're with, that you have this virus because you're simply not contagious anymore. At least as important is that the committee has come forward with an initiative to invest much more in the mental health of LGBT people. More resources are needed there, and it is a very important work that we have before us. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-WCT5ca4uxtEjtPiBGtSBhR	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. All people should be able to grow up and live without the risk of being harmed because of their own or others' abuse. By preventing problems related to ANDT, the need to deal with the consequences of these problems is reduced. With this there are great gains, both from a human and an economic point of view. Early preventive work means avoiding abuse, which otherwise risks continuing and thus affecting both the individual and society for a very long time. Work must begin on time with children's growing-up conditions. Opportunities to develop and make their own choices for the future provide safe children and counteract crime and exclusion. The family is always the most important protection factor for children and young people. Preschool and school are number two. Number three is that there are good leisure activities for children and young people. Madam President, I would like The school is the most important arena for prevention and is already making an important contribution today. It may, however, be better. One needs to secure the school so that it is a smoke- and drug-free workplace for students and teachers. One suggestion may be that the drug information is integrated into the schedule. More lessons are needed that motivate and strengthen students so that they can resist curiosity and peer pressure. Knowledge shall be based on research and reliable sources. Madam President, I would like Politics is often about weighing the pros and cons against each other. Snus is not harmless, but neither is sugar or alcohol. Many Swedes have put away and instead chose the much less harmful snus. Unlike cigarettes, snus has a role to play in public health as a healthier alternative to smoking. Therefore, snus and cigarettes should be treated differently, which has also been affected by, among other things, the Public Health Agency. Alcohol consumption among schoolchildren in Sweden has fallen sharply in the 2000s, as can be read in Can's report on school students' drug habits in 2019. It can also be seen that the alcohol debut has been postponed, although the positive trend has been halted in recent years. Systembolaget plays an important role in public health. By controlling sales based on age controls, it prevents alcohol consumption among young people. At the same time, local vineyards, breweries and distilleries have become increasingly common in Sweden. This shows that a new artisanal tradition is establishing itself in the country. In order not to upset Systembolaget's position and to guarantee certain requirements, the Swedish small producers could become licensed agents for Systembolaget. Madam President, I would like The link between drugs and other crime is well established. The increase in gang crime and violence in recent years is also the reason why new measures are needed to tighten up the work on drugs. New drugs are constantly appearing in society, and in many cases the drug problem is becoming increasingly complex. Drug abuse destroys human lives and finances the criminal groups that spread insecurity in Sweden. We believe that an evaluation of Swedish drugs policy is much-needed and very topical. It is a law that has not been evaluated since it was introduced 30 years ago. For us it is not a question of legalisation, but the crucial thing is the early efforts, to try to meet and help individuals with addictions in a better way and to create a safer society. When someone has been caught with drugs, it is crucial that the response of the police and social services clearly marks the rejection of drug use by society. We Swedish democrats strive for a drug-free society and work consistently to stop all tendencies towards drug liberalisation. Madam President, I would like Many people relate addiction to alcohol and drug abuse, but there are also other addictions that are not always seen as such. Examples include shopping, sex abuse, Internet abuse and drug abuse. Family members become co-dependent, you lose control and addiction becomes the most important thing in your life. This is something you cannot take hold of and just stop doing on your own. Then it is important that the interaction between primary care, psychiatry, addiction clinics and social services works to counteract all forms of addiction and addiction. There should be more support lines for family members, friends and colleagues of people with addiction. Care centres should also provide advice for all types of dependencies. People with substance abuse problems are a very vulnerable group in society who are basically in need of care, and there is now an increased understanding of this. It is time for a broad collection of drugs policy. A majority in Parliament and the Swedish people are behind the aim of a drug-free society. The focus must be on young people, prevention and early intervention.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-981	Madam President, I would like The Left Party stands for a solidarity-based alcohol policy, which means that we want to restrict accessibility. We must have high taxes, a strong monopoly and stricter rules for private imports, that is, everything that has been very important in Swedish alcohol policy. We should not have a system company that is open on Sundays, for example; that is a matter of course. A reduction in total consumption has also been shown to mean a reduction in alcohol-related ill-health and mortality, Madam President. Allowing farm sales can sound insanely harmless and like a busy and nice thing when you are on a car holiday in Skåne. However, it has been investigated several times that if farm sales are introduced, then the monopoly risks falling. But now we're going to investigate farm sales one more time – that's the third time it's going to be done – because it's written in the January agreement. One might think it's a bit funny, but the government has apparently accepted the increasingly thirsty center party line that liquor should save the countryside. I am very sceptical about this. Madam President, I would like Today's older women drink more alcohol than previous generations of women. It creates ill-health, and you can also see that it increases deaths. One also sees increased problems that can come as alcohol consumption increases, such as falls, lack of self-care and so on. It is important to be able to talk about the elderly and alcohol. In our opinion, therefore, the government should give the appropriate authority the task of producing information material on the elderly and alcohol, Madam President. We need to start talking about this a little wider than we are now. That is why I support Amendment No 5. The drug-related mortality rate in Sweden has long been very high. On average, there are about 600 cases a year, which means that Sweden belongs to the countries in Europe that have the highest drug-related mortality rate – in fact, we have Europe's second highest, Madam President. These high death rates, which have continued year after year, are hardly a measure of a successful drug policy. Any death due to drug addiction is, of course, a failure of society. The victims, Madam President, are mothers, fathers, sisters, partners, children, friends and, of course, the dead person himself. In 2017, the Left Party exercised to investigate drug policy and thus also the criminalisation of its own use. One minister feels that it is almost in favour of legalisation if you want an investigation into criminalisation of your own use. Guilt by association, it is called, Madam President – also a Minister of Justice. I am thinking of the debate on syringe exchange we had from 2006 to 2017. The slogan was that an equal health should reach even the one who is dependent. Sprinkler exchange is a health effort that was very questioned for a very long time, but now it's law. Those of us who believe in an equal health for drug addicts won that fight. During 1986 and 1987 I worked at the LVM-home Serafen, with the first HIV infected drug addicts in Stockholm. I think I got to know most injectors who were just HIV infected in Stockholm. This was before the law on criminalization came, before the cuts in social services came and before the cuts in addiction clinics came. These people were HIV infected, and at that time – in the 80's, you know – HIV was equal to death. That's it. They were thus HIV infected, but they had a completely different situation from today's addiction in Stockholm. They were condemned to death, but at the same time they had their own homes. They had contracts for their apartments and a huge support from the social services and addiction units. Much has happened since then, which has affected the situation of the addicts in the very wrong direction. Stigmatisation has increased, and vulnerability has increased. Drug policy no longer holds together. I am very happy with the announcement we make, because I think it happens far too little – or rather not so much – at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Now, Madam President, a united committee is calling on the government to release the sag and dare to investigate today's drugs policy. I think it is fantastic; I would never have thought that all parties in the Committee on Social Affairs could be brought together around this kind of issue. If someone had asked me two years ago, I would have replied that I do not think it is possible, because every small step on the road to addiction policy has meant so much unnecessary bickering between parties, Madam President. The Left Party's drugs policy rests on two legs: there is a need for vigorous work against drugs, while dependence should not be stigmatised. It's the drugs that should be illegal, not the addict. Therefore, the Left Party's position is that drugs should remain illegal but that it should be decriminalised to be influenced by drugs. With the design of the law, there is a clear risk that the police will spend more resources on prosecuting crimes relating to their own use than they do on the serious criminals who commit more serious drug offences. In our society, those who depend on drugs are subjected to enormous stigmatisation. They are labeled criminals and are to be punished instead of receiving adequate care and treatment. The UN has encouraged the Swedish government to review drug policy, and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have requested an evaluation of the Swedish Drugs Penalty Act, to see if there is reason to amend the legislation in order to make it easier for people with addiction/dependence to seek help. This has been supported by a united SKR. The task of investigating how the Act on Criminalisation of Own Use has affected the number of addicts and users and their quality of life, health and drug freedom should of course be included in the investigation contained in our committee initiative. Hire the top scientists! Have respect for the many dead and their relatives! Change drugs policy from being deadly to a policy that gives dependent chances of care and treatment – and to survival!
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-993	Madam President, I would like I think most of us would react with surprise and anger if a person who has undergone successful cancer treatment was refused care if the cancer came back after five or ten years. Welcome back when your blood sugar is stable! When he seeks treatment during a period when the sugar is difficult to control. Unfortunately, however, this attitude is what faces many of the people seeking treatment for addiction or dependence, Madam President. Before you can receive treatment, you must show that you are free of alcohol or drugs. Welcome back later! This is true even though addiction is a disease where recurrent relapses are part of the disease picture. There are many prejudices. Dependence is often seen as a sign of weakness — a lack of character. It is no wonder that people suffering from an addiction disease live under a great stigma. Guilt and shame are always present. Madam President, I would like In my role as associate professor and addiction researcher at Karolinska Institutet, I study what happens in the brain when you develop an addiction. With this knowledge, I try to develop new drugs for the treatment of alcohol addiction. The brain's reward system is a key to the development of addiction. When we eat good food or exercise, dopamine is released, and we get a feeling of well - being. When we drink alcohol, take drugs, or expose ourselves to something else that is addictive, the same system is activated in the brain, but much more dopamine is released. We then experience an intoxicating feeling. However, upon repeated intoxication, the natural dopamine activity of the brain's reward system gradually decreases. Anxiety and depression are common in sober or drug-free conditions. The changes in the reward system also contribute to a strong craving, which drives compulsive abuse. Instead of drinking to get a positive experience – a intoxication, like when you were drinking from the beginning – you now drink to avoid feeling bad. In parallel with the changes in the reward system, activity in the front part of the brain also decreases. Impulse control and the ability to resist cravings are deteriorating, and these changes in the brain make it inhumanely difficult to uproot and stop drinking or using drugs. Instead, family, children, and work are neglected to abuse — or to plan to drink or use drugs. Dependence is a fact. Dependence is a disease, although it is self-acquired, like several welfare diseases. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are seeking a drug-free society, and we are working consistently to stop all tendencies towards drug liberalisation. The key point is that drugs policy is scientifically rooted and promotes evidence-based care and treatment that leads to a reduction in suffering. It is therefore extremely gratifying that a unanimous Social Committee supports, on the one hand, a zero vision of drug-related deaths and, on the other hand, that the current drugs policy should be evaluated to ensure that it is consistent with the requirements of evidence-based care, proven experience and harm minimisation. Madam President, I would like Now it is important that the government implements not only this announcement, but also the Parliament's unanimous decision of last year, namely that it should be a principal responsible for the care of people suffering from both addiction and other mental illness. Today's system, where two different principals are responsible for the treatment of people with severe co-morbidity, often leads to their being flown back and forth between health care and social services. No one takes overall overall responsibility, even though these people have an extensive need for care, and at the same time no one makes mistakes under applicable law. This must be corrected before more lives are put out in the tracks of drugs. The government has the responsibility to carry out Parliament's will, but we Christian Democrats will do what we can to push and act as a blowtorch. Madam President, I would like With regard to the new ANDT strategy under way, it is important to look at the whole. Alcohol and tobacco consumption has certainly decreased among young people over the past year, and that's great – that's good! However, if this positive trend is to continue, it is important that we continue to work on evidence-based and preventive. Alcohol and tobacco are the two risk factors that contribute most to the overall burden of disease, and social costs are high. It would be devastating to reduce national efforts in this area. We believe that the new ANDT strategy should also include gambling. We Christian Democrats also believe that a national knowledge centre is needed to manage, quality-proof and further develop successful practices in the preventive ANDT field. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report and the committee's announcement. However, I only support our reservation 6, which is linked to the use of alcohol at risk. What, then, is risk use? Well, it is the use of alcohol that increases the risk of harmful physical, mental or social consequences. Around 1 million people in Sweden drink so much alcohol that they harm or risk harming their health. The guidelines today say that there is a risk of high consumption of alcohol. For a man, this means drinking more than 14 standard glasses — about three bottles of wine — per week. For a woman, it means drinking more than nine standard glasses — about two bottles of wine — per week. Risk use also includes what is called intensive consumption — when a man drinks five or more standard glasses at one time or when a woman drinks four. Recent research now shows that there is no clear limit below which alcohol consumption is completely safe. In our opinion, therefore, it is important to review the guidelines on risk consumption. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues from all the parties in the Social Committee for their really good cooperation on ANDT issues. Together we have taken several important steps to create an addiction care without guilt and shame. Thank you very much.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1011	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3, which deals with the ANDT strategy. We in the Liberals would like to delete these letters, because the list of letters is getting quite long. It should come to an L for drugs, an S for games and so on. We think it is more natural to develop a strategy against addiction in different forms. Alcohol is the largest and most extensive addictive drug, and then other drugs come further down the list. Nevertheless, I intend to devote this time precisely to drugs, partly because of the very serious consequences of drug use and partly because drugs are responsible for very much of the criminal acts that we see here in society, with very serious consequences. I think it is fantastic – we have a committee that has made three announcements today! I do not know when we have done it three times in a debate. It is a question of supporting a zero vision of drug-related deaths and an evaluation of drug policy. I note that we now have a zero vision of drug deaths. We have lived with a zero vision of drug use in society. These zero visions have, as well as resisted each other and have actually hindered progress in this policy area. After all, we agree that we should continue to have a restrictive drug policy with good drug and addiction care that includes harm minimisation and that this care should be evidence-based. I, who have been around for a while, can see that in the 1960s – when we woke up because drugs were a problem in our society – a health care system was put in place that was quite positive to prescribe drugs to people who were addicted to drugs against a repressive attitude. Then this has continued. In the late 70s, Lars-Magnus Gunne, a professor of psychiatry at Ulleråker in Uppsala who recently passed away, tried methadone treatment of drug addicts who really wanted to get rid of their addiction but couldn't get away from it. Then he compared a group that received methadone to a group that received blind pills. He found that the mortality rate in the group receiving blind tablets was significantly higher than in the methadone-treated group. Here came evidence of how substitution treatment could contribute to what we are today deciding on: a zero vision to save people who have become addicted. But do you think evidence was enough? I was on the National Board of Health and Welfare and had politicians in the Government Office who said: ..................................................... Then we actually got permission that – I think – 50 patients would still get methadone. Today we have methadone and substitution treatment in healthcare, but it took a very long time before it was introduced. In the late 80s – Karin Rågsjö was into this – Kerstin Tunving, psychiatrist in Skåne, said that we must save people with drug abuse from two deadly threats. One was drugs; the other was HIV. Successfully, syringes were distributed and another group of drug addicts were found who would not have wanted to go to social services. On the political side, it sounded no, no, no. I met ministers of different party colours, and this was just not to be done. It was against the zero vision of drugs in society. This is how it has continued. Gerhard Larsson came in 2011 with an investigation with many good suggestions. The referral process sprung – The director of the National Board of Health and Welfare was in favour, but the responsible administrator of the National Board of Health and Welfare was against. What does a government office do? Nothing's happening. That is why I would like to round off by saying how important it is that we, who are in favour of an evaluation of the law, for a zero vision of the risk of dying from drug abuse, for the rehabilitation of more people and for the prevention of people slipping into this now show unity. As long as we fight with each other for parts of proposals to be implemented, nothing will happen, and then we have done no good. If we take good care of this, show that we agree on the objective and respect the fact that the roads there may be slightly different, then I am convinced that we can find good compromises for those with drug addiction and for society as a whole. It will also affect crime.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1026	Madam President, I would like SEK 103 billion – that's how much alcohol is estimated to cost our society every year. That is an incredibly large sum, of course. The most important thing, however, is not the sum itself, but what hides behind the sum. Today, for example, 320 000 children are adversely affected by a parent's drinking and all those who are victims of violence involving alcohol and those who die prematurely due to alcohol-related diseases and accidents. Madam President, I would like Every other assault case in Sweden is alcohol-related. Another study, from Ramboll, has looked at how much alcohol has cost society in 2017, not only the 103 billion in actual costs, but what the social costs are. For example, 32 000 productive hours of work are lost every week because of hangovers. 625,000 alcohol-related days of sick leave are taken each year. 5,200 people die from alcohol-related causes. The cost of health care was 7.4 billion, which corresponds to the salary cost of 14,500 nurses. So there is an enormous amount of money. Madam President, I would like We are well aware that alcohol costs us far more than it gives us. That's why I am so extremely proud of our Swedish successful alcohol policy. Thanks to our state monopoly and our restrictive alcohol policy, total alcohol consumption is still low in Sweden compared to many other countries, and it is also declining. I'm glad to hear that. However, I am concerned, Madam President, about the political winds that are blowing to loosen our successful Swedish model. Sneaking will now be proposed to open up for Sunday at Systembolaget and the possibility of buying alcohol in grocery stores, and political voices are now being heard from various quarters to abolish the Swedish alcohol monopoly. A abolished monopoly on the sale of alcohol would lead to a sharp increase in alcohol consumption in Sweden. This, in turn, would have major negative consequences. There is a simple rule of thumb in this area, and research is clear: when availability increases, then consumption increases, and when consumption increases, then alcohol damage also increases. It's not a price I'm ready to pay. Madam President, I would like The year 2020 is the final year of the ANDT strategy, and a new strategy to be implemented from 2021 will be developed during the year. I am, of course, very much looking forward to the forthcoming work and am pleased that the minister responsible announced early on that the focus will be on drugs issues in the forthcoming strategy. The government is currently pursuing a drugs policy based on public health with the aim of restricting access, preventing the use of drugs, providing care and treatment for addiction and addiction, and reducing injuries and deaths caused by drug abuse. Differences in registration and reporting practices make it difficult to compare the number of drug-related deaths between countries, but what we can agree on is that drug-related mortality in Sweden is still far too high. The government therefore prioritises efforts to reduce mortality and has already taken several measures. As an example, in March 2019 the Swedish Public Health Agency was commissioned by the Government to establish a warning system to prevent drug-related deaths. In April 2019, the National Board of Health and Welfare was tasked with carrying out a survey of emergency departmental procedures for planning continued care, treatment and follow-up in drug-related overdose. Funds are provided to the Public Health Agency to enable a faster classification of psychoactive substances. The Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have, on behalf of the Government, investigated the conditions for increased availability of Naloxone drugs in order to prevent overdoses. The authorities have subsequently made some important changes to their regulations. For example, from 1 November 2018, it is possible for nurses to prescribe N aloxone medicines. Prescribers are now also allowed to deliver Naloxone directly to patients. The National Board of Health and Welfare also presented in June 2019 a knowledge support for drug-assisted treatment in opioid dependence, known as LARO, which the Agency has developed on behalf of the Government. Madam President, I would like In addition, the Social Affairs Committee has agreed in an opinion to announce to the government that an evaluation of Swedish drugs policy and a review of the current legislation should be carried out with a view to having a zero vision of drug-related deaths. The opinion attaches great importance to prevention and treatment after evidence, research and proven experience. Politics should prevent the problems, which is exactly in line with what we Social Democrats also think. We want to see a continued restrictive drug policy with a focus on harm minimisation and help and support based on evidence and proven experience for those who have an addiction and who need our help and support most. Research must also be strengthened in a number of areas. Changes in the regulatory framework need to be systematically evaluated, as well as the effectiveness of different care activities. I am extremely pleased that the committee has agreed on these important issues. Drug mortality in Sweden is too high, and every death is a tragedy and a failure. Reducing mortality through both preventive and better care and treatment is one of our biggest future tasks. Finally, Madam President, alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco are issues – it is a long word, perhaps a desire to say addiction issues in the future – issues that must be politically prioritised for a well-functioning society. I am therefore very pleased with the great political and social commitment that exists in these issues. And I hope that during this parliamentary term we in the Committee on Social Affairs can continue to work constructively together to reduce the use and harm caused by drugs, alcohol, tobacco and doping. I support the proposal in the report.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1043	Madam President, I would like As Yasmine Bladelius says, we are all very happy with the initiative we have developed. When it was announced, it was not many hours before Minister Hallengren went out and said that it was absolutely not appropriate to make an evaluation of the law on criminalisation of own use. I think that, Madam President, was a little too quick to react to a committee initiative. Maybe she should've thought about it one more time. There are not only a number of parties that want to investigate criminalisation, but also the whole of SKR, for example, where the Social Democrats have also supported it. Madam President, I would like My question to Yasmine Bladelius is: how do the Social Democrats in committee think this will end?
i-Bqk7JnrMRfZjXYqGH6Ym48	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the question! As I said, I am extremely pleased with the incredible commitment that I, Karin and many of us share on these issues, because these are incredibly important issues that we will have to work hard on in the future. I fully understand that decriminalisation may initially sound attractive. When I meet these people, our fellow human beings who have fallen into the clutches of addiction, who are at the bottom of our society, it is not primarily a decriminalisation they advocate. They advocate an alternative, help and support based on proven experience and evidence and trust that we politicians listen to their needs, that they need help and support based on their dependency. In the run-up to the forthcoming investigation, I would like to ask: will decriminalising addiction lead to fewer addicts? If smoking hashish was suddenly legal, would it lead to fewer young people testing to smoke hashish? Will the police and social authorities, together with parents and schools, be better able to discourage drug abuse if there is not even a legal opportunity to take action against the so-called own practice? Madam President, I would like I don't know. What I know is that those people need our support and our help. They need help based on proven experience and evidence. I think we should give them that.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1049	Madam President, I would like I think you should look into things. Before you say that you absolutely can't buy a decriminalization, you might want to investigate it, not say no right away and close the gate. In this context, no party has said that we want legalisation. On the other hand, we want an entirely unconditional investigation. We want to see what opportunities there are for changing the drugs policy that we have. For it is not to be filled. Madam President, I would like I would like the government and the Social Democrats to look a little more at other countries and how to do it: what has Norway thought about its proposal? Let's see how it's gonna be. And how do things work in Portugal? I do not think we have a successful drugs policy. I've been working on these questions on the floor, and I've been working on them politically. Those who are dependent and whom I meet want a comprehensive solution. They don't want to get dragged into the police car time after time to be tested if they have drugs in their blood. I suggest that the efforts of the police today to hunt down street drug addicts should instead be directed towards the pursuit of the serious criminals. This system does not lead to less dependence. It doesn't lead to fewer deaths. We have a drugs policy that I would like the government to dare to shine through and that it does not just close the door to various issues. I would like the government and the Social Democrats to bring in the very best scientists to look at these issues, so that we can have a drugs policy that saves lives and at the same time prevents drug abuse in general.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1053	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, I am extremely pleased with the commitment that exists on these issues. And I am pleased that we have now agreed on a committee initiative in which we say that we need to review current drug legislation and current drug policy with a view to reducing drug-related mortality. As I also said in my speech, it is difficult to compare between countries. But it is clear that mortality is far too high in Sweden. We must do something about that. However, I do not feel that in the committee initiative that we support, there is a majority in favour of decriminalising their own use. But there is a majority in favour of reviewing this in order to reduce mortality, in order to have a zero vision and to make decisions based on evidence, proven experience and research. I believe that this is necessary in order to move forward on these issues in the future. I also believe that it is important to listen to the people involved and that we have an ear in their direction. I am convinced that Karin Rågsjö has it. When I do, it's not decriminalization they're asking for. Rather, it is help and support to get out of addiction. It's a visualization of them. They also say that it is often the police that make them most visible, which leads to them receiving help and support. I think we need to work much more on that in the future.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1057	Madam President, I would like In 2018, 566 people died of overdoses in Sweden. The previous year the number was 626. In comparison with other countries in Europe, Sweden, according to the EU, has a very high drug-related mortality rate. Despite a decrease in the number of deaths in overdoses in 2019, Sweden has the second highest drug mortality rate. In ten years, the number of deaths has doubled. Whether the 2018 decrease is a trend break or not remains to be seen. Although the number of deaths does not increase every year, it is clear that more needs to be done. Sweden needs a zero vision of drug-related mortality. In the political debate on drugs, there has long been too much focus on repressive measures. More policemen and tougher penalties are what will solve our problems. That's the sound of it for a long time. Just get me wrong now; I think, of course, that the criminal gangs that fatten themselves and insecurity through the addiction of others should be caged up, preferably for much longer than today. But it will not help those who have an addiction disease. Those who are among the most vulnerable and weak in our society need a thoughtful policy that can help them out of addiction. Madam President, I would like It is therefore to be welcomed that a united social committee has now taken a position in favour of an evaluation of Swedish drugs policy. As the announcement requires, I believe that Swedish drugs policy must be based on evidence, proven experience and harm minimisation. I also hope that the forthcoming ANDT strategy will be permeated by that very thing when it comes. Damage minimisation as a starting point for drug policy has long been debated, not least in my own party. Not infrequently, a dogmatic and repressive approach to drugs policy has been dominant. Why should health care help addicts to kill themselves? Why should taxpayers pay for and supply drug users with needles? I have often had to face such issues when I have advocated syringe exchange programmes, not least during the years when I was involved in regional health policy in Region Östergötland and actively pursued the issue. It is a matter that is close to my heart. Madam President, I would like I will tell you why we should have that particular element in drugs policy, why harm minimisation is important and why syringe exchange programmes are important. Yes, it is important, and we will do so because we know that the spread of hepatitis and HIV is reduced by syringe exchange programmes. It was Karin Rågsjö or Barbro Westerholm who mentioned Malmö as an example. There is a reason why there are hardly any HIV infected with intravenous abuse in Malmö. It is because a very successful syringe exchange programme has been conducted for a long time. We don't want dirty needles in circulation. We will continue with damage minimisation as a principle, because we know that, for example, needle exchange also helps people with dependence to get in contact with healthcare. That's something many people wouldn't do otherwise. We've just finally got a syringe exchange in Norrköping. I hope it will soon be in the whole country. Another good example of harm minimisation is the distribution of Naloxone, which reverses overdoses. It is not impossible that the drug-related mortality rate decreased last year precisely because access to Naloxone has increased. The availability of substitution treatment could also contribute. As in the past, we Moderates will continue to push forward in committee to increase the level of harm minimisation in addiction care. Madam President, I would like It is not worthy of a country like Sweden to extradite all the people who have an addiction disease to their fate. It is not worthy to allow them to fall between chairs or juggling between a social service that is not able with or a medical service that is failing. If you have an addiction, you have no housing and you also have a mental illness, we need to see the whole and the people behind the problems. Municipalities should not be able to blame that the person is primarily the health care concern. Health care should also not be able to say that it is primarily social problems that the municipality is obliged to fix. Today, it is difficult for many people to find a place to live if you have an addiction. At the same time, we know that it is difficult to get out of addiction if you do not have a permanent existence. Add to that that mental health care doesn't work. Then it's not easy. For all those who are now betrayed by the public because of what is known as bureaucratic problems of cooperation, we have a responsibility to ensure that they receive the help and support they need. The committee has also appealed to the government to do something about this – both the split headsmanship and a review of the forced care laws so that they are adapted to co-morbidity. Madam President, I would like I hope that the inquiry that Parliament is now calling on the government to set up will be launched soon, but also that it will lead to something that can really change the lives of those who are currently suffering from addiction. It is good that we in all parties in Parliament today have agreed that a review of drug policy is needed. This debate is too important to become part of a political game. When the investigation has landed and the government has hopefully also handed over a forward-looking proposal for a new drugs policy, I hope that the same spirit of consensus that prevails can now prevail in that discussion.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1069	Madam President, I would like We are now debating issues relating to alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco – areas very much linked to public health, which we debated in this House a little while ago. Getting a society free from drugs and doping and with reduced medical and social harm caused by alcohol are important parts of public health work. Most of the work to achieve the ANDT objective is carried out in municipalities, regions and, not least, civil society. To all of you out there who work daily and meet our young people in particular and who watch when something is not right, I would like to thank you very much. In the tobacco sector, we have a good international situation. I am pleased to say that daily smoking has decreased, but of course we still have a lot to do there too. As far as alcohol is concerned, we also see a positive development in Sweden. Total alcohol consumption decreases. This is evident especially among young people. It's a trend that's been going on for years. Despite alcohol advertising and the fact that large quantities of alcohol are brought into the country, total consumption has actually fallen. Alcohol is not just a commodity. It has a wide range of negative health effects, which we must have with us when discussing sales. But just because it is, it shouldn't stop us from thinking new. Today, a new industry is emerging around our countryside. Not least in Skåne, we can see vineyards and local beer breweries emerging with enormous potential. For these entrepreneurs, we in the Center Party want to enable farm sales. During this year, therefore, I look forward to the government setting up an investigation into how farm sales can be made possible throughout the country, without risking the monopoly. Now I was going to move to the area of drugs, because the trend in drugs is not as positive. Here we need to do more to support the broad preventive work ranging from enhanced pupil health to supporting civil society. Although we have a relatively small proportion that has actually tested drugs, we have a frighteningly high proportion of drug-related mortality. While mortality in many other European countries has stabilised and even started to decrease, we see the opposite in Sweden. In Sweden, five times as many people die of drugs as in comparable countries. According to the European Union Drugs Agency, in the EU only Estonia has higher drug-related mortality rates than Sweden. The conclusions I can draw from this, Madam President, are: During last year, the Riksdag made three important decisions on change in Swedish drug policy. What we decided last year was, firstly, that there must be an end to the division of heads of addiction and mental illness. Secondly, the law of coercion must be reviewed. Thirdly, pharmacological treatment for people with addiction diseases should be available throughout the country. These three decisions are important steps in the right direction. We are now pleased to note that a united committee has taken the next incredibly important decision, namely to instruct the government to initiate a zero vision of drug-related deaths and to evaluate the current drugs policy in order to ensure that the policy is in line with evidence-based research. These are proposals that the Center Party has been pushing for a long time to get through. It is this announcement and this decision that the government must relate to and implement, but, in view of the move made last week by the Minister of Social Affairs, after the Social Affairs Committee put through the announcement, there is every reason to be vigilant and to follow this closely. But I assume that the government will take the matter seriously and heed the committee's announcement and Parliament's decision to set up a proper evaluation. An evaluation should, in my view, examine, among other things, whether current legislation is a good tool to prevent people becoming ill with drug addiction, whether the law has contributed to the high mortality rate among people who use drugs in Sweden and what experience there is in other countries of both reducing drug use and reducing deaths among drug addicts. These are questions that we really need answers to in the investigation. I hope that the government will launch the evaluation as soon as possible, that it will have the necessary resources and that it will be given an open mandate to build its recommendations on science and research and not be restricted in advance. With this, Madam President, I thank you for the floor and hope that we in the Committee on Social Affairs will continue to work together to reduce the use and harm caused by drugs, alcohol, tobacco and doping. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my great thanks to Mr Westerholm, Member of Parliament, who has been tirelessly pushing on these issues for many years. Many thanks, Barbro!
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1084	Madam President, I would like Every time there are abuses in an individual there are many rings on the water around this person. It's worried partners, parents, siblings and friends, and it's very worried children trying to handle life as best they can. Many are the accounts of children who have grown up far too early, who sense the slightest sign in the parent that it is time again. It is children who pour out alcohol when possible or who are generally terrified that the parent will turn into someone else who is frightening and who forgets that as a child they exist and that they need food and someone who cares. Unfortunately, children all too often conclude that this is something to talk about quietly, a secret that must not be revealed, either to friends, school or counselors. Madam President, I would like The Convention on the Rights of the Child has now become Swedish law. It's a milestone that the Green Party has been working for a long time to make it happen. Now it will become even more clear and tangible and increasingly known that children have their own rights and that children will be given the opportunity to express their opinions and get help without the parents giving their consent. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we have so much consensus in the Committee on Social Affairs. In fact, we often do, and we come up with constructive solutions. We now have such a consensus that we should investigate the problem of drug abuse and drugs. The Green Party is behind the drugs policy being pursued today, but we see that there are major problems. We have an extremely high mortality rate. We need concrete action, and we need to review this through an investigation. Madam President, I would like Addicts are one of the most vulnerable groups in society. And the drug-related mortality rate in Sweden is, as I said, very large. The distribution programmes have played a major role and it is important that responsibility now lies with the regions and that the municipalities no longer have a veto right. It is easy to get hold of Naloxone today, and it has been an important factor in reducing drug-related mortality. The Green Party would like to introduce injection room experiments. If something goes wrong when injecting, it should be possible to have people around you who can help you with support and treatment. At the same time, I would also like to point out that the government is doing many things to reduce drug-related mortality. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has a mandate and the Swedish Public Health Agency has two assignments, all of which will be reported in 2020. It is about developing alert systems between authorities, identifying emergency clinics' procedures for drug-related overdoses in order to offer better care and treatment, and proposing measures to prevent and counteract drug use and medical and social harm. These reports will be important pieces of the puzzle in the future. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1092	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report to be approved. For us, the proper governance of public institutions is a fundamental principle from a single constitutional perspective and out of concern for trust in our institutions and actors in democracy and the management of our common resources. The Swedish National Audit Office last year presented a review of the government's governance of public authorities, state-owned companies, foundations and non-profit and economic associations in the field of culture. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in its report that the government's governance is not sufficiently adapted to the different types of activities of the institutions. This is perhaps particularly clear and complex in the field of culture, where there are several forms of organisation, activity and funding. It is noted that the governance of public authorities generally works well. But otherwise the potential for improvement is obvious. The Government decides on guidelines or conditions for the cultural area's companies and foundations to perform certain tasks. It is a form of influence that risks creating ambiguities. In the case of the companies, the government must ensure that the content of the guidelines is consistent with other policy documents established at the general meeting, otherwise there is a risk of conflict between the steering documents, which the company must comply with under the Companies Act, and the conditions that the government has decided on. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Ministry of Culture governs the foundations in this area as if they were authorities in certain respects. Furthermore, guidelines and conditions decided by the Government are not legally governing the foundations. Here, too, there is a risk of conflict of interests, and the Board of Directors will have to give priority to it according to the appointment of the Foundation. The government therefore risks not getting what it expects for the state funds allocated to the companies and foundations in both cases. With this in mind, we believe that the government should therefore produce ownership instructions that are adopted at the general meeting of the state-owned companies in the field of culture. Furthermore, in dialogue with the foundations, the government should ensure that guidelines or conditions for the state's contribution to the foundations do not conflict with the appointments of the foundations in these cases. Clarity and transparency are key words. We share the committee's opinion on the importance of follow-up based precisely on objectives and results orientation. It is a discussion that is also conducted in a broader spectrum, based on the wide-ranging debate on the fact that there is often a trust-based governance and that in the cultural field there is a large autonomy with arm's length as a principle. It will also be examined what definition we really have of that term, given that it was so clearly debated both last year and this year and will continue to do so. However, since we share the view that we should look at governance issues based on objectives and performance monitoring, instead of deciding annually on guidelines and reporting requirements for grants submitted to companies, we believe that one part of the follow-up, as the committee states, should be to adopt the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office in this respect, as we write about in the reservation.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1100	Madam President, I would like Värmland is not a landscape, Värmland is a state of mind. That's why I'm in Värmland wherever I go in the world. That's the secret of Värmland. This has been said by the former cultural profile Lars Löfgren, who grew up in Ekshärad. That is why, in this debate too, I want to tell you a little bit about Värmland – the landscape that is constantly up-to-date, and where this year's Swedish rally has just ended. We go to Värmskog where Rigmor Gustafsson, one of our country's most talented jazz singers, with a voice so stretchable that she seems to be able to take on almost any song, is raised. It was someone who said that if she were an athlete, she would probably be one who is betting on high jumps where others are betting on height or something else that requires her on a more horizontal level. I told you in the last debate that I come from Ekshärad and threatened to take you on a dialectical journey. Don't worry. I will take you to Rämmen in Värmland where Ninni Schulman, one of Sweden's foremost crime writers and social investigators, was born. She writes about my locality Ekshärad in the book When all the clocks stopped. If you want excitement, read it. Also last year's winner of the Great Journalist Prize for this year's vote, Hanna Hellquist, comes from Karlstad and Värmland. With her wonderful humour and pain, she brings the human to life and becomes a strong voice for listeners, readers and viewers. We saw that not least when she visited the Skavlan. The August Prize winner in fiction, Marit Kapla, who last week visited the Riksdag and enchanted many of my colleagues and officials, comes from the same ditch as I, also called Klarälvdalen, but a little bit higher up – Osebol. Finally, I have to admit that I was a warmerdool on Monday evening when Mia Skäringer, who comes from a few weeks ago in Värmland, at the Expressen Cultural Gala, received the Satir Award Ankan. So it is not just in the Sunside that we have laughed at Mia. She also has the audience record in Globen and has sold out Scandinavium six times with her performance Avig Maria – No more fucks to give. She's a worthy winner. This handful of women, cultural bearers and ambassadors of Värmland represent various institutions such as music school, radio, television and newspapers on their career journey. As you can see, it is extremely rewarding to be a member of the Committee on Culture to follow and decide on all the activities within our area of expenditure. There are everything from literature, sports and cultural heritage to outdoor activities, the gambling market and much more. Madam President, I would like What we are now debating is, of course, the governance of the cultural area's institutions. This is one of the issues that we in the Committee on Culture's monitoring and evaluation group have had to explore in more detail. The group, which consisted of representatives from all parliamentary parties, studied documentation from the research and evaluation secretariats of the committee department and exchanged thoughts and questions. When we started the work, we quickly became interested in the goals, how they are formulated and how they are measured. Although there are different views as to what the objectives should be, the group agreed that the objectives decided by the Riksdag should be possible to follow up. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about goals without getting into how they should be measured, i.e. which assessment bases should be used. In the report we found, among other things, that more assessment bases would provide better follow-up and that the government should justify its assessment bases. The group also saw a continued potential for improvement in how the government reports results to the Riksdag. In this context, the group highlighted the logic of activities as a method for developing the results report. The application of this logic can clarify where the gap is in accounting and how it can be bridged. The method can help to bring together the whole, where the results achieved with the help of various efforts are placed in focus. In this way, we can come a step closer to describing the effects of the implemented policy, because we also stated that it is not easy to describe the effects of implemented policies – but it is possible to do so. Madam President, I would like As far as the report is concerned, we also see that the government partly agrees that the government's governance is not sufficiently geared to the various ways in which the institutions operate. However, the government considers that there is a low risk that the outcome will not be as expected. The committee particularly welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review in the light of administrative policy developments, where, among other things, trust-based governance and the principle of arm's length are concepts that are investigated. The committee shares the government's assessment that governance in the cultural field is complex based on its broad range of activities and funding. The committee notes that no conflict of objectives has arisen during the current review period and that documentation of the annual dialogues according to the Swedish National Audit Office is a valuable knowledge resource in government governance. The committee thus shares the government's assessment that governance is adequately adapted to the different types of activities of the institutions. We now see that the government is moving forward and developing governance through Myka, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, which in its regulation letter for 2020 has been tasked with reviewing the 30 common assessment bases for the cultural area in the government's performance report to the Riksdag and proposing changes. The proposal should be limited to activities with state funding and focus on significant results and impacts. The assignment shall be presented no later than 20 January 2021. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1118	Madam President, I would like My committee colleagues Aron Emilsson and Lars Mejern Larsson have in a slightly different way but in both cases excellently described the report we have before us to debate, namely the Culture Committee's report 5 Governance of the institutions of the cultural area. As I said, it is based on the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office of the Government's governance of various institutions in the field of culture between 2010 and 2018. The examination itself is quite technical in nature but in principle interesting in nature. That is good reading – very good, I would say – for those who want to know different forms of ownership, state and non-state, and the relationships between them. As pointed out earlier, the institutions of the cultural field have many different forms of ownership. State authorities and state companies, economic associations, non-profit associations – yes, it is a flora of different forms of ownership. At the same time, cultural policy – where there is a great deal of unity between parties – should be characterised by what we call autonomy or the principle of arm's length in order to give culture the free space for artistic creation, which is the very soul of cultural activity. This is an approach that must contain a large measure of trust – precisely the trust-based governance that Lars Mejern Larsson mentioned here. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to go in from a different angle – not with such a beautiful odyssey through the Värmland landscape that Lars Mejern Larsson offered here, which almost made one want to get on the train and go there right away, but I want to stop for a moment at this with trust. Madam President, I would like to include those present in the Chamber and those listening to a trip in the thought of yesterday's experience. Some of us off there. I will try to describe the feeling and the fantastic atmosphere that prevailed at Stockholm City Hall last night, where the Postcode Lottery received its beneficiaries and distributed over SEK 1 billion to them. Many of them work in the field of culture, in the field of our policy, in sport and in other areas. Being among such people and in such a mood, full of pathos and driving forces to improve our world in different ways, by different means and by different directions, in different ways, each one is a favor. It is a commitment that often goes out of the ordinary, something we see in all kinds of cultural activities. It was wonderful to see the representatives of many of these organizations when they received millions of dollars for their activities. What is characteristic of this money, in contrast to the perhaps a little square when you have government control of different cultural areas institutions, is that they are not conditional. There is great trust between donors and recipients in the best use of these funds, at their discretion, for the benefit of those they work with and for. That, Madam President, brings me back to the recommendations of the National Audit Office, the government's response and the committee's conclusion. Of course, there is a big difference when it comes to how to manage state funds, taxpayers' hard-earned money. We who distribute them obviously have a responsibility to ensure that they are handled properly and that we get an account of how they are handled. There is also a difference in the field of culture through what is public authorities, but also for those who receive state funds, which constitute this flora of all sorts of other forms of ownership. Trust-based governance shall be fundamental. On this we have debated and will debate in the future, because it is a matter of definition and relationship and also a delicate issue in our area. We want as free a culture as possible. The Swedish National Audit Office, Madam President, highlights in its review in particular two different recommendations in relation to state-owned companies. They concern what is decided at the general meeting and also in relation to foundations. The Moderates have found no reason to land in any other conclusion than that in which the majority of the committee has landed, i.e. that they point to and highlight the recommendations of the National Audit Office and urge the Government to take them into account. This is actually very important. Although, according to the comments made by the Swedish National Audit Office, there are no concrete examples of conflicts today, such may actually arise in the future. For example, Madam President, consider that the Nordic Museum, which is a foundation, would have to sell businesses, such as Julita Farm, for various reasons. What, then, is the case? Is it the Foundation's appointments and statutes, or, because it receives state resources, the government's guidelines for this, if the divestment would be contrary to the government's guidelines? Madam President, I would like I strongly recommend reading the Swedish National Audit Office's thorough review if you are interested in a matter of fundamental importance. As I said, we share the conclusion reached by the majority in committee. I will be following this issue very closely in the future, from many different aspects.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1131	Madam President, I would like The cultural field differs from other policy areas in several ways by the fact that it consists of many small institutions organised in a variety of ways, such as authorities, associations, foundations and state-owned companies. The explanation for this lies partly in the long history of the region. Some of our cultural institutions have very old traditions. The National Archives, the National Heritage Office and the Royal Library were all formed in the first half of the 17th century, making them some of the world's oldest still existing administrative bodies. This is unique. The opera and the Dramatic Theatre were founded by Gustav III in the late 1700s, and both the National Museum of Natural History and the National Museum were created in the early 1800s. The second characteristic of the cultural area is an unusually strong autonomy norm, which we usually call the principle of arm's length. As you know, the arm's length principle means that cultural policy should create good conditions for artistic creation but allow the profession to take responsibility for content and quality. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the government's governance in the cultural field meets the criteria that the Riksdag has set for governing government activities. The review concludes that the government's governance has become clearer and more result-oriented. Governance has a long-term perspective and is well documented. This, of course, facilitates the parliament's ability to control and transparency. The principle of arm's length is well known by both the Ministry of Culture and the representatives of the cultural institutions. On the other hand, the Swedish National Audit Office considers that the governance is not sufficiently adapted to the different conditions that apply to companies and foundations compared to the authorities. The Government broadly agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments and partly agrees that the government's governance is inadequately adapted to the different types of operations of the institutions. Madam President, I would like The committee shares the government's assessment that governance in the field of culture is complex given the broad scope of the area in terms of both the forms of activity and funding. We also see that no conflict of interests has arisen during the current review period. The annual dialogues between the Ministry of Culture and the activities are well documented and a valuable resource in government governance. We also welcome the review of how the arm's length principle works in practice, at national, regional and municipal level, which the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has been commissioned to carry out during this year. This will further develop the government's governance of the cultural area. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1139	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Moderates' reservation 4 to be approved. All children and young people have a right to culture and must be given the opportunity to participate actively in various cultural activities. A large part of children's and young people's everyday life is hopefully to find your place, your development and yourself in school. Music, film, theatre and art are bridge builders between children and young people, but also across generational boundaries. That you can find strength, joy and self-confidence through culture are many of us who can testify to. When I was a kid, I was very shy. But thanks to the theatre, I grew as a human being, and today I am standing in the speaker's chair. I think that says a lot about what culture can do for us humans. Making culture accessible is for the Moderates part of our party's overall work against the growing alienation. A large part of our focus is on the right of all children and young people to culture, and we give special priority to children and young people from socio-economically vulnerable environments. We see that culture must work to reach children and young people from groups who are less aware of cultural expressions. It is often at a young age that people's interest in culture and artistic creation can best be exploited and stimulated. And unless the broad content of culture creates interest in children and young people, cultural workers as well as the audience will be lacking in a number of decades. That's why I'm proud and happy that my county of Sörmland since the 1970s and regardless of political control offers every child between 5 and 15 years of age to go to two performances per year through the school. It offers dance, theatre and music of very high quality. This is a clear priority for the resources of the cultural cooperation model. Children and young people first! Culture has an absolute intrinsic value, but is not a drain of its own among other clearly defined policy areas. We must see culture in a cross-sectoral context; this is a cane horse that we have in the Moderates. We must see and defend the invaluable power of culture as bridge builders within and between generations and across invisible and visible borders, but also between young people in urban and rural areas. Madam President, I would like The report Focus 18 from the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, reveals clear differences in social inclusion. Young people in rural areas and in vulnerable areas generally experience less social inclusion than young people in cities. This national exclusion must be taken seriously. SKR and MUCF have examined young people's participation and influence locally and regionally. The report, which came just recently, shows that young people's opportunities to make their voices heard have increased, as they are more often given the opportunity to engage in dialogue with decision-makers. That's good. However, young people's opinions and knowledge are usually not taken into account when making decisions at local level. It is usually called pseudo-democracy when one is given the feeling that one has been heard and that one's opinions will be included in the basis of the decision, but that is not the case. That must not be the case, and we absolutely must improve this. It is mainly about the local level, where you are close to young people and close to listening to and including opinions in the decision-making documents. Media and information literacy, MIK, is extremely important in today's society. Being able to handle, evaluate and analyse information is also a prerequisite for being able to take the place and convey opinions and opinions. Parents, schools and libraries must all be helped in working with young people's trust in sources. But perhaps it is young people who have this ability rather than the older generation, that is, those of us who are sitting in here, who perhaps too unreflectively take in information without source criticism. Madam President, I would like It is impossible to debate culture and leisure for children and young people without mentioning school libraries and public libraries. I don't think they've ever been more important than today. Formation and trust are keys to an inclusive society. The proposal for a national library strategy proposes the establishment of a national knowledge centre on school library issues to provide skills development to all staff groups in their profession who are in contact with the school library area. Here you would like to see teachers at school and school libraries working together for the benefit of students and for their education. The Agency for Youth and Civil Society has an important task, among other things, to allocate state grants to children's and young people's organisations. It is therefore essential that organisations have an independent and democratic structure. It is mainly by offering art and culture through school that children and young people are reached. Creative school reaches children and young people in the environment where they are present daily and where all children and young people should be present. In the long term, therefore, consideration should be given to the extension of the Creative School. Previous evaluations of the Creative School have shown that a large majority of municipalities have regularly used reforms with good results. My experience – I have followed two artists at different schools – is that there are many laughs, and it builds bridges between students and adults. Gaining confidence and using creativity can help those who have problems with schoolwork. Municipal cultural schools are also extremely important. It is a voluntary municipal activity, but most municipalities have a cultural school today. Madam President, I would like Wise words alone cannot emphasise the importance of culture for children and young people. This must be done in action and in economic priorities. Cultural analysis report from 2019 confirms that publicly funded culture belongs to groups where parents have high education and high income. We Moderates don't promise everything to everyone. Therefore, we are transferring resources from culture that are primarily consumed by adults to initiatives for children and young people, not least in vulnerable environments. The first steps were taken with the budget for this year.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1158	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Culture and leisure activities are fundamental to children's development and well-being. Culture for children is not just about literature, music, film, theatre and television programmes. It is also play, pedagogy and children's view of life. And just as important as it is that there is culture to convey, it is that children get opportunities and opportunities to create their own. Creating school gives children the opportunity to meet professional art and culture in school. It is a complement to the school's own work, where children and students can take part in different kinds of art and culture together with professional cultural actors and not least have the opportunity to develop their creativity. Thanks to the meeting with professional art and culture, children have new ways of expressing themselves. One example of projects is Höglandsskolan's dance performance, where the students together with a dancer and educator had to create a performance that had grief as an inspiration. The origin came from a comic book by Ester Eriksson and the educator's personal experience of losing a parent when he was young. The students had to work out movements in groups and create lyrics where they focused a lot on relationships and trust in each other. A couple of questions were, what is missing? What is grief? ..................................................... Museums also play an important role in communicating and making culture accessible to children and young people. For example, in my constituency of Jämtland we have our fantastic Jamtli, whose children's perspective is invaluable. For in what other place can you ride the slide through the Big Lake Beast? An appreciated part of the business is open preschool at Hackåsgården, which aims to bring our history to life and where you play yourself to cultural historical experiences. Madam President, I would like The role of culture in health has attracted increasing interest. At a time when mental illness is a widespread problem among children and young people, there is reason to consider how culture can be used as a tool in the work to combat mental illness. One example is the culture of recipes, which can be used as a complement to traditional treatments. Participation in cultural activities stimulates minds and contributes to a sense of meaning and context. Access to culture for children and young people should be a matter of course, regardless of where in the country you live. Our reservation in this report concerns young people's ability to choose their own partners. There are currently no regular surveys on this, which should be introduced. It is of great importance that we get a clear picture of what the situation looks like and how it develops. In order to put in place measures to prevent young people from being forced to marry or to live with someone they have not chosen, it is important to get a grip on the situation. It is still difficult to find any surveys made after the Youth Board did 2009, and much can happen in eleven years. It is therefore of the utmost importance to start carrying out regular surveys in this area.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1165	Madam President, I would like The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that all children have the right to culture, both as practitioners and as audiences. We agree on that in this House. But then there is a difference in how we think it should be implemented and how much it costs. Among the proposals we have to consider today is a motion by the Left Party concerning the school of culture. We see that culture school is a very important player when it comes to offering children the opportunity to develop within an artistic expression. From being music schools, we can now see that most municipalities in the country have expanded to become cultural schools. Around 500 000 children per year are given the opportunity to participate in courses. It means a chance to find new ways of expressing yourself, to get an outlet for thoughts and feelings, to develop new skills, to meet friends and to gain a deeper knowledge of cultural creation. During the previous term of office, we worked with the Social Democrats and the Green Party to support cultural schools with national funds. There were 100 million lubricants to make cultural school available to more people. This meant that some municipalities decided to lower or completely remove the fee. A further effort was made to develop pedagogy so that children with disabilities could participate better, and many tried out new ways to seek out groups that do not usually participate in the cultural school. We were also involved in deciding on the Cultural School Klivet, which meant an effort to educate educators to the Cultural School. And a national centre was set up to compile and disseminate statistics and research results, support development processes and contribute to the exchange of experience. In many ways it was a positive period for the cultural school. Since then, the 100 million have disappeared and come back. Both large and small municipalities have announced cuts in the cultural school, and the School Inspectorate has questioned the possibility of integrating the cultural school into school day. These are anxiety clouds that we need to help dispel. In our exercise we highlight that all children should have the opportunity to participate in the cultural school's activities. This requires great effort and broad political will at all political levels. Municipalities need to see the value of the cultural school and continue to develop their activities. They need short queues and lower thresholds, so that even children from socio-economically weaker families can be included. The National Cultural School Centre is now working on producing statistics that highlight the equality aspects. I look forward to seeing those figures in the future. The Left Party budget includes 300 million, in addition to the EUR 100 million previously set aside, to remove the fees. In order to get it together, the municipalities need to make the same amount of money. In times of cutbacks, voluntary cultural activities are being pitted against law-driven ones. That is why we welcomed billions of contributions to the municipalities that we decided earlier today, on the initiative of the Left Party, among others. Madam President, I would like The Left Party also believes that decisions are needed here in the Riksdag that all municipalities should have a cultural school – primarily to ensure all children's ability to develop their creativity and artistic expression. It's about it being the same for all children throughout the country and that they should have this right. A cultural school team would also provide the necessary stability to have the courage to invest in education as a cultural school teacher. You should feel confident that there is a labour market when you come out of education. Many new training places were created during the last parliamentary term, and they actually need to be filled if we are to have enough teachers in the future. It is expected that there will be large retirements. We also want to expand with more places. The Centre for Cultural Schools has mapped out the skills needs of the coming years. They see that there are great needs in a variety of cultural forms. There is particularly great demand in music, dance and drama. But also picture and shape, photo and musical was high on the demand list – it was found when asked the municipalities. Madam President, I would like From the Left Party we are prepared to strengthen the position of the cultural school and work to secure all children's rights to it. That is why I support our Amendment No 5.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1179	Madam President, I would like All children growing up in our country will meet culture and develop as creative people. Then culture must be a natural part of preschool and school. Creating and aesthetic elements complement the school's broad knowledge assignments and can improve learning and creativity. It provides training in thinking new and interested in new phenomena and people. Therefore, the efforts at the Creative School have been important for the Social Democrats and the government. Municipal cultural and music schools are also of great importance in making culture accessible to more children and young people. Since the first municipal music schools started in the 1940s, the business has grown and broadened into other art expressions, such as dance, theatre and visual arts. The municipal music and culture school is a cornerstone of social democratic cultural policy, and strengthening and making municipal cultural and music schools accessible has long been a priority for the government – both during the last term of office and during this term of office. As early as 2018, the Government presented a national strategy for the municipal cultural school with the aim of promoting a more accessible and equal cultural school of high quality in both supply and teaching. And in the autumn of 2019 the government reintroduced SEK 100 million in state aid to municipalities that conduct cultural school activities. In addition, the Government now proposes, with the budget proposal for 2020 and in agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals, that the support should also apply for the years 2020 – 2022 with SEK 100 million per year. The government believes that cultural school is of great importance, not only for individual children and young people around our country but also for the education of society. That is why it is a national matter. Madam President, I would like Children and young people must also be given the tools and conditions to become involved citizens. They should have the power to shape their lives, and they should have influence over the development of society. Youth policy is as much about the situation of children and young people in society as about the possibility of influencing it. This requires, among other things, a clear and up-to-date youth policy. The Government has therefore started work in 2019 that will lead to a new youth policy letter and a new youth policy action programme. In June 2019, several organisations and authorities were commissioned to produce data and gather information to contribute to the work on the letter and the programme, and now the government has announced that a new youth policy letter will be submitted to the Riksdag in September 2020. Madam President, I would like When it comes to children's and young people's access to culture and leisure time, but also to young people's ability to organise themselves, a conscious policy is needed. We Social Democrats set the same example between a prosperous, equal and safe society and children's and young people's access to culture and leisure time and a vibrant youth policy. Madam President, I would like With these words, I call for all reservations to be rejected and support the committee's proposals.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1188	Madam President, I would like In the Center Party's vision, everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, has the opportunity to participate in cultural life that includes both professional culture and amateur creation. When we meet, share experiences and reflect together, we are also better equipped to meet challenges around us. This is particularly important for our children and young people. I have told you in previous debates in this House about when I was privileged to act as a dance teacher and, not least, I was allowed to work with children and young people during school hours. From the years I worked as a dance teacher, I have many examples of how dance, cultural expression, made children and young people develop both as individuals and in group dynamics. I could give many examples of this. I could tell you about many positive experiences that I experienced as a dance teacher. The dance gave so much to many of the students and classes that I had the privilege of working with. These are experiences that I know I share with many other cultural workers who have also had the privilege of working with children and young people. These are also examples of why Creative School is such an important initiative. Creating school provides opportunities for students to meet professional cultural workers and to take part in culture and perhaps find their own cultural expression. At the same time, there are cultural schools in the municipalities, which in many places offer a fantastic education. How they are organized and what they offer varies across the country. The Center Party sees the activities of cultural schools as very valuable and believes that this type of education for children and young people should be available in all municipalities. But how the business is set up must be determined on the basis of local conditions. There are many advantages for the cultural school in being able to cooperate with the regular school. What is important is that accessibility is good and that account is taken of the fact that not all children have financially resourceful parents or the opportunity to get to a central post-school location. Madam President, I would like Culture is and should be a part of children's and young people's leisure time. However, there is so much more that may not always be classed as culture but which provides important and meaningful leisure time. Associations in Sweden are strong and important. It is in the sports or outdoor association that you can both vent your energy and create energy. This is where you can learn the rules of sport and experience its power, while at the same time leading to improved health, both physically and mentally. We need to move, while at the same time there is something that has made us worse in our country. Children and young people in particular need to be stimulated to move more freely even in their leisure time. One group that is often excluded is children and young people with intellectual disabilities. According to the National Association FUB, approximately 1 per cent of Sweden's population has an intellectual disability. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, this group suffers to a greater extent from, for example, overweight, depression, high blood pressure, anxiety, anxiety, social vulnerability and exclusion – things that can to a very large extent be positively affected by active participation in culture, associations and sports. These are activities that are strengthening for everyone but that can have an extra importance in life for children and young people with disabilities. The Center Party was a strong advocate of the Special Olympics World Winter Games in Åre/Ostersund in 2021 and the public health initiative of the Parasports Federation in connection with the planned to do for people with intellectual disabilities, mainly children and young people. Unfortunately, the event Special Olympics World Winter Games itself fell in Sweden, and during the Christmas weekend the decision was made to cancel the event. It would have been a real opportunity to demonstrate the great importance of this activity. On the part of the Center Party, we tried to bring forward opportunities to implement the arrangement. Unfortunately, we did not get any support for this, but a public health initiative that also applies to children and young people with intellectual disabilities is not yet too late to implement. Sport and associations really need to be made available to more people. In order for more children to have the chance to find a sport or other association activity that they find fun, for example in cultural life, the association life should also be given more opportunity to enter school and recreation centres. It opens up new opportunities for children who might not otherwise have had the chance to try out new activities and join the association life. The gathering of children around different interests also provides opportunities for greater integration. It can also strengthen the association life with new members. There are leisure homes where associations, such as sports associations, form the basis of the activities. Such activities, such as sports or outdoor recreation, should have good opportunities to be conducted and made available to even more people. There are also children and young people who have to spend much of the summer vacation and other holidays alone, without the supervision and presence of any adult and without the company of other children. Especially summer holidays can be difficult to plan if you lack resources and networks. It is for all these children that leisure homes and free activities during the summer holidays and other holidays are particularly important, activities that could usefully be organised in conjunction with the association life. Madam President, I would like In the Center Party we see how culture and meaningful leisure time contribute to a deeper, humane and more open society. When we meet, share experiences and reflect together, we are also better equipped to meet challenges around us. That is why we in the Center Party see it as so important that everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, has the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that holds both professional culture and amateur creation as well as a sports and leisure life with joy and meaning. It is especially important for our children and young people. With this, Madam President, I hope that my message has gone forward, despite my cold somewhat veiled voice.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1206	Madam President, I would like I'll try to tell you what I thought in four minutes. I request the approval of reservation 6. It has been said very well about culture school, and I support all the good thoughts about what has been said. All children should have the chance to develop interests and talent, but some sports and activities can cost too much for financially vulnerable families. It is therefore very unfortunate that the red-green government that we had previously chose to remove the leisure money that the Christian Democrats got through in the alliance government. We see with different glasses on this issue.
i-4DueXMF6iXv72FWekfofTM	The Christian Democrats agree with the Children's Ombudsman, Save the Children, the Society of Sweden's social welfare managers and other consultation bodies that the government's removal of leisure money was wrong. Madam President, I would like However, we Christian Democrats are not giving up so easily. In our policy, we launch a leisure card, loaded with money for leisure activities, to all students in grades 2 to 9. Please remember the name, because I will come back to it. We see that children are moving less and less today, although we know that it has a major impact on the physical and mental health of children and young people. We also see widespread loneliness among young people. That is why we want to encourage more people to participate in sports clubs and clubs and to take part in the community that it entails. We also highlight in our reservation the importance of allowing people with disabilities to participate in leisure activities. Per Lodenius spoke nicely about that just now. We Christian Democrats therefore want to introduce earmarked financial support to enable students in grades 2 to 9 to participate in leisure activities. The money will be charged on this special so-called leisure card. We're spending $850 million on that in our budget. The idea is that all these children will receive 500 SEK per year in support. Those living in households with financial aid or housing allowance must be up to SEK 2,400 per year. Keep these thoughts in mind! We have looked at Nordic countries that are introducing this or are about to introduce it. There are similar systems in Iceland, and Norway is on the way with a similar leisure card. Since I have the last word, I would like to conclude with a few thoughts by Piet Hein, for thought: We fill our time with haste and ID and use our lives to save time. But when, in time, life's time has lasted — where do we have the time that we have saved?
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1217	Madam President, I would like I cannot help it; it is a tradition in this House that I and Roland Utbolt are discussing the issues relating to child leisure activities. I think we've made it. Both I and representatives of the Social Democrats have explained what was the problem with the previous Christian Democrats initiative, namely that it reached a very small proportion of the children who need support for their leisure activities and that it was exploited to a very low degree. It was simply a bad reform, which we removed. Now the Christian Democrats come back with a new idea, which is actually something completely different. That is exactly what we have called for, namely a broad initiative that helps all children. Therefore, regardless of whether you live in a family that has support or does not, there is support for choosing a leisure activity. I think this is an excellent idea. Then perhaps I wish the Christian Democrats could develop their cultural policy so that we do not always have to have this debate, but I feel very pleased. I think I have come up with my message, and we can agree that the leisure card sounds like a very good bet. As a left-winger, I can support it.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1220	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that, Vasiliki Tsouplaki! It is usually Mr Vasiliki himself who chooses these debates with me and asks for a reply to my speeches. It is extremely gratifying for me as a Christian Democrat to bring the Left Party into this. I understand what Mr Vasiliki is thinking now, because the honourable Member has just called for a broader allocation here. It is true that the previous leisure allowance was intended for children in grades 4 to 9. They were then given $3,000, and the family would have had support for at least six of the last 12 months. In our debates, Vasiliki has often stated that this must be broadened in some way, and now there is general support for children in order for them to be physically activated and helped with their movement and well-being. In addition, it is extra support for those who are most vulnerable, and it is not just a matter of subsistence aid, but also of housing allowances and the like. I am therefore extremely pleased that the Left Party is in favour of this. Then perhaps we can bring additional games, so that the leisure card can become a reality in the future.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1223	Madam President, I would like I think this shows that we can agree on issues across party boundaries – and also that we actually have an exchange of having these lines where you get to bump and wet your ideas. I think we have reached Mr Utbolt. I also hear several parties highlight the socio-economic aspects and that it is important that we create systems that see that we live in an unequal society but where all children should have equal opportunities to both sport and practice culture in their free time. Now that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has become Swedish law, we need to step up our efforts further, so that we actually live up to the international conventions and can offer all children active leisure time.
i-1b7ec9a50c6013dc-1225	Madam President, I would like Thank you for developing these thoughts, Vasiliki! Perhaps I should not give you all the credit because we are now proposing this leisure card; we are in the process of political development within the party. But I actually think that you have influenced my thinking and that I have since had some influence on our policy development. So feel free to take a little, but not all of it! Yes, it can be done here in our parliament – that we find solutions across party boundaries. If it is for the good of children and young people, for their mental and physical health, it is well-lawed. There are, of course, more ideas and suggestions if we are creative. I have now spoken very specifically about this today, and I am grateful for the support I have had here.
