i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-4	Madam President, I would like Do your duty, demand your right! This was one of the early slogans of the labour movement. What has built Sweden strongly is the work line – that women and men who can contribute go to work and pay taxes, to pay for those who cannot work. It's about the sick. It's about the elderly. It's about our children. This is particularly important in these times, when our society depends on those who are sick staying at home and that those who can work go to work or work from home. Then we all need to help each other. In order to be able to take care of the difficult so-called sick – in order for society's safety net to be sufficiently fine – those who can work also need to work. We are, or should at least be, one of the healthiest peoples in the world. Still, sickness is growing. Especially the mental diagnoses, with anxiety and stress-related symptoms, are increasing. We in the Moderates want to introduce a prevention guarantee for mental illness. As a general rule, insured persons who have a job and are in need of preventive measures should be able to start operations within one month. We also want to see an insurance medical decision support that is more adapted to psychiatric diagnoses and co-morbidity, because we want to ensure that more people will get the right support and the right help faster. Madam President, I would like In order to enable a return to work, the driving forces to act need to be increased. Sick people should be encouraged to participate in measures leading to a rapid return to work for those who are able to work. That is why we want to reintroduce the longer time limit in health insurance. For we believe in every person's power to contribute – in the power to participate and contribute to the whole. Research shows that it works: Anyone who is encouraged to participate in measures that lead to a rapid return to work also comes to work, and having an active deadline helps to increase incentives. Even before the crisis, we saw that our social contract was beginning to break up – that people who can work still do not go to work, which affects those who are sick and need the support of society most. When people consciously and carefully exploit our Swedish welfare to shoe themselves, they steal not only from those who are ill but also from Sweden's taxpayers. Therefore, we believe that the government should urgently investigate how a coordinated state payout function can be set up and combined with a reinforced payout control. This has been proposed by two government investigations in recent years. Support shall be provided to those entitled to support. The cheating is sometimes even more elaborate. In January of this year, it was known that a 48-year-old man suspected of simulating a neurological disease and for eight years cheated on himself SEK 15 million of taxpayers' money. The Social Insurance Agency notes that this is probably the biggest cheat ever. However, only a week later, the prosecutor announced that he or she chose not to proceed with the case. The reason is the low penalty value, which would not justify the cost of the legal process. Reforms are needed here, not only in terms of design, but also in terms of the penalties and penalties we need to put in place. Here the penalty needs to be increased. Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most generous welfare systems. It is based on the fact that people who have worked hard can also claim their rights. It is therefore not reasonable, we believe, that new arrivals to Sweden will have full access to our welfare from day one in the country. The Moderates therefore want to introduce a qualification for welfare. After you have worked and contributed to our society, you can also benefit from our benefits. Let me give you some examples! The first example is the guarantee pension. Those living in Sweden qualify for the guarantee pension for 40 years. New arrivals have an exception here today, which we do not think is reasonable. We think that the exception should be removed so that new arrivals also need to qualify. Another example is the sickness and activity benefit. New arrivals today have an exception to the requirement of qualification. Remove the exception! Those who have paid into the system will also receive part of it. A third example is the multi-child allowance. We believe that it should be paid only to those who have a permanent residence permit or long-term self-sufficiency – that is, not subsidies. A fourth example is parental benefit, which should be paid for a maximum of one year if you do not have a job or a permanent residence permit. We also believe that it is reasonable to tighten up the rules for when EU migrants qualify for social security systems. For example, it is not reasonable that the person who works in Sweden but is a citizen of another EU country can get the difference between the child benefit in Sweden and the child benefit in the home country for children living in the home country together with the other parent. We believe, in conclusion, that the Swedish social contract needs to be re-established. Do your duty, demand your right! "This means that the person who can work will also work to contribute to our Swedish society – in order for the person who is ill to be able to receive society's support." That's what we're talking about. Re-establishing the work line. I am in favour of reservation 7 in paragraph 3 on the qualification of welfare.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-17	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are debating the Social Security Committee's report No 17 on social security issues. The Swedish democrats are behind all their reservations, but in order to reduce voting time I choose to apply only for reservation 2. Madam President, I would like It is certainly a special time we are living in right now, on account of covid-19. Many of us have certainly celebrated Easter at home with only the closest family. However, avoiding large family parties and cancelling the trip is not a great sacrifice, and it is not even comparable to the sacrifice that many people are making with important social functions today. Although it is a little off the subject, I would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest respect and reverence for the health care professionals who meet and care for the sick, for the elderly, for shopkeepers, cleaning staff and many, many more who are currently working hard. Some who also get to work extra hard in these times are all administrators at Försäkringskassan, who have now got an extra load in the form of many sick and several new changes in the system. I hope that at the political level we can make the right decisions and thus both contribute to a sustainable system during the crisis and provide security for those who are ill, both in the short term during the crisis and in the long term. Madam President, I would like Some decisions have been taken by the government that have been good and necessary in the crisis, such as the abolition of the withdrawal date and the requirement for medical certificates during the first period, and that no one should lose their sickness benefit because the expected surgery was cancelled due to changing priorities in healthcare. However, I believe that more needs to be done. We, like the Moderates and others, believe that a decision and a system must be made as soon as possible so that even those who belong to risk groups can be allowed to stay home with some form of compensation as long as the Corona crisis continues. In our view, the right to compensation for risk groups should, of course, cover those who have previously been insured. It is not reasonable for people belonging to risk groups at present to be expected to be available on the labour market if a job could endanger one's life. Madam President, I would like However, even if these improvements are made, we can at the same time note that the fundamental problem with the Swedish health insurance system remains. In recent years, we have been able to take note of a series of reports on, for example, serious cancer patients who have been insured and are expected to start looking for work due to over-zealous trials of medical certificates and harsh assessments within the rehabilitation chain, because the government wants to reduce the number of sick days. Many decisions have created strong emotions. We have read about people who have even chosen to take their lives after a refusal decision. This is something that we in the Swedish Democrats have been critical of. We have in this report proposals to set up a parliamentary committee to thoroughly investigate improvements to the sickness insurance system for long-term sustainable health insurance. Our starting point is that those who are ill should receive the best possible rehabilitation and basic financial security. Those who have the opportunity to become healthy should have the best possible conditions and incentives to return to work. The investigation now under way on the initiative of the government, and where we have received some reports, is a step on the way. We support the investigation's proposal for a softer assessment at day 180. However, we believe that the system needs to be reviewed from scratch as much of the problem persists. This applies, for example, to cooperation difficulties between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen and the difficulty of assessing the need for sick leave in the event of mental illness, which today is one of the most common reasons for sick leave. Of course, much more preventive work is also needed. Madam President, I would like In the short term, due to the current crisis, we believe that the Government urgently needs to re-establish the directives to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency on the basis that it should be a priority to provide security for those who are ill and to provide the conditions for both those who are at risk and those who can carry the infection to stay at home in order to save as many lives as possible. Now the priority objective should not be to reduce the number of sick days. One step in this would be for the review function of a medical certificate for the first 60 days of the illness to be abolished and replaced by an increasingly automated system in any case during the current crisis to also relieve the burden within the Social Insurance Agency. However, this is a matter to come back to and nothing on the table for decisions just today. Madam President, I would like I shall return to the proposals in the report. Keeping track of all the authorities and bodies involved in sick leave is complicated. As I said before, today you need to be almost healthy in order to be ill. The Government's proposal for a coordination effort in healthcare is therefore a good step in the right direction. However, we believe that if you are to invest in support in the form of a coordinator, it should be linked to the individual as a form of mentor in order to be able to manage coordination between all the bodies involved and to support the individual. There also needs to be greater flexibility when you are on sick leave, and positive incentives are needed for those who have the ability to get back to work in small steps. One suggestion we have there is that, while compensation is maintained, it should be possible to study at a low rate as part of rehabilitation, as studies below 50% today do not give a right to CSN. Madam President, I would like In order to adapt rehabilitation better on an individual level, the disability rate also needs to be tailored individually by steps of 5 per cent. In order to increase the incentive to return to work, we believe that it should also be possible for an insured person who has been on sick leave for a long period to return to paid work by up to 25% while retaining compensation for six months. If working hours increase, the level of remuneration should, of course, be reduced. Today, if you have been on long-term sick leave, you can almost lose money by starting to work at low levels. We believe that it can lock people in long-term sick leave, people who may both want and be able to work at a low level. To conclude, I would like to stress the importance of not being placed in financial crisis for caring for a loved one. We therefore believe that the government should investigate the possibilities of care for relatives that should be similar to the care system for sick children. It should concern a medical condition in which the insured person should be dependent on care. However, it does not have to be like today that the person is in a life - threatening state of health. In view of the current crisis, rules for family members belonging to vulnerable groups should of course also be reviewed.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-31	Madam President, I would like Our social security systems are there to make us feel safe if something happens to us, if we get sick and cannot work or if an accident happens. This is what the welfare country of Sweden is known for. Today, however, there are major shortcomings in the system, and many, more and more, do not doubt and feel that security. In these days of Corona, we see clearly how important the word security is and, above all, the sense of security. It is time to do something about our social security systems and to develop them so that they become the support and provide the security we need and help in life when life cracks. It is for this reason that we in the Center Party are pushing for support and help early, preferably before we get sick. Early action, we call it. Health care must react quickly and provide the conditions for the care and intervention to come. Our employers must be given a clearer mandate, a clearer role and the opportunity to take measures to get them back to work based on the needs of the employee. The rehabilitation chain must be clarified and strengthened. The regulatory framework must then be in a position to make it work. It is not quite that well-stocked today. Today you can only be on sick leave 25, 50, 75 or 100 percent. We have many suggestions. We have been saying for years that this must be changed. The individual's possibilities and prerequisites must be taken as the starting point. This means that people should be able to be on sick leave at 10, 20 or 85 percent. But the government doesn't want to listen to it and be so smooth. Many who are long-term sick or unable to return to work with their former employer, or who are disabled, have a special responsibility for providing support through the Employment Service or its independent actors so that they can get back to work – etc. or less, of course, based on each individual's circumstances. It is a right to have a job to go to and to be a part of society. While these people receive help and support, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has a very important role to play in following up and ensuring that you do what you are supposed to do and that they receive the support needed to get back to work. It should not be like now that Försäkringskassan's role is to reduce the sick leave rates, i.e. the number of sick leavers, or to ensure that people leave the sick leave as soon as possible and receive another form of benefit. It is through work that we are entitled to sickness benefit and sickness benefit while we are rehabilitated back to work, because that is the purpose. But it doesn't apply to everyone. Our entrepreneurs, small businesses, selfemployed workers and those who do not have public limited liability companies have difficulty in determining income and remuneration based on sickness benefit. Every sick occasion means they don't know if they're getting compensation. For students, it is also unclear how they should receive compensation when they cannot study because of illness or injury. This must be made clear. Why should the government have such a hard time doing anything about it? Cooperation between different authorities in the sick leave process is A and O, but this causes problems for those who are ill, for Försäkringskassan, for Arbetsförmedlingen, for health care and for the employer. Make their roles clear, I and the Center Party say to the government. When it is most difficult to find your way back and when you have to be more people who work differently in rehabilitation – use the coordination associations and develop them. Those who end up between the chairs need an organisation – an organisation that we already have and which we have seen for years do a very good job and produce good results. Now I really am addressing the government and say in sharp terms: do not weaken the coordination associations and their opportunities, but give them the resources they need and strengthen them instead! Finally, I must mention that we in the Center Party see that our health insurance system is unequal, Madam President. More women are on sick leave, but the occupational injury benefit is given to more men. The Swedish National Audit Office, the Social Security Inspection and more have shown this inequality and inequality through various investigations on different occasions. Why does the government allow this to continue? I have been clear, Madam President. I believe that the government has done nothing to change the unclear, inflexible process of sick leave. Change it now! Drunk, sick people get caught. Let us all in Sweden once again feel confident that our security systems are there when we need them and that the support and assistance are there. Give early action! I would therefore like to vote in favour of Amendment No 26 in paragraph 9.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-43	Madam President, I would like We live in a strange time. It has been noted many times in the last few weeks from this speaker's seat. And it's true, isn't it? The infection that is now grasping in our society penetrates into our everyday lives and takes away some of us our loved ones in a real sense. It's a challenge. Of course, it is about disease protection, about work clothes, about research for vaccines and about avoiding getting too close to each other physically. But it's actually also about something deeper. The time we live in is asking us questions that will require answers. Why was it so important to privatise care and allow patients with private health insurance to take priority in the queue? Why should pharmacies be privatised, and why should our entire medical readiness be put at risk in the name of a slim market economy? Ultimately, these are the fundamental questions that we ask ourselves: What does it mean to be human? What does it mean to protect one's neighbor? What does our community really stand for? What exactly does solidarity mean? It is now clear in practice what is most important and how badly built a lot is. Socially important professions turned out to be child care workers and nurses, not PR consultants and board professionals. Hundreds of care places were developed in Stockholm without a single consultant being paid for. Once it was true, right-wing politics raged like a house of cards. It seems everyone stopped talking about privatisations, and now everyone is calling for greater joint responsibility. Business will get you a home run. Volunteers join health care. Laps are put up in staircases with offers to help go shopping. You call relatives you hardly knew existed. Keep that thought for a while. What if we built a society where it worked so that those who can work helped those who can't work right now? How different could it be if we let the needs rule and each one contribute according to ability? Suddenly it's obvious. We can all get sick. That's why health care needs to work for everyone. Anyone can lose their income because they get sick, so we need a good health insurance that will make us all right. As what is now happening blows past, we need to remember the feeling of insecurity and what it does to us humans. We need to ensure that those who are ill are entitled to compensation and real rehabilitation. For those who fall ill without a right to compensation, it will not be better in the summer, but the policy must intervene and ensure security for them as well. For it to last, of course, someone has to pay. Everyone can, but most of all the people who can afford it. Low taxes and dividends for wealthy people must never take precedence over common security. Madam President, I would like It is obvious for most of us now to help each other. But that's exactly the opposite of how it's been for so long. Our common welfare has been dismantled. Health care has received less money. Schools and retirement homes have been privatised and differences have increased. Money we have paid in has not gone to more nurses or doctors, but has instead ended up with those who owned just because they owned. The image of Sweden as a country with strong and robust welfare systems may remain, but in reality we have fallen behind. In comparison with other European countries of the total public transfers, i.e. health insurance, unemployment insurance and financial assistance in relation to GDP, Sweden will be in the 18th place. It is the result of active political decisions. Madam President, I would like The bourgeois government that ruled Sweden between 2006 and 2014 drastically deteriorated health insurance. The deterioration was motivated by the desire to reduce the dependency on subsidies and to reduce the so-called exclusion. In 2008, the Government carried out a health insurance reform, which included the introduction of a so-called rehabilitation chain with fixed deadlines for assessing work capacity. In addition, health insurance, the so-called pre-stock, introduced a shorter time limit. A total of 100,000 people were insured, and doctors sounded the alarm that the severely ill did not receive sickness benefit. Unfortunately, the current government has been unwilling to take several significant steps to change this. The rehabilitation chain remains, and the government's governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency with quantitative targets has had severe consequences for people. But perhaps something good can come out of the difficult times now. Perhaps more than the Left Party recognizes the value of reasonable compensation levels and support in the event of loss of income. Karen's day has now been partially abolished, and it should be everyone's view that this should also be permanent. Why are we where we are? It is because of active political decisions and because the idea of building a community for the many and not just those at the top have lost ground. Sometimes it seems that solidarity has been completely excluded, but that really does not have to be the case. You can make a difference. The Left Party has made a number of proposals in this House's report today which could reverse much of the development and would help restore health insurance which actually helps to compensate people's income loss and correct some of what has been done wrong. I support all of our reservations, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 3.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-59	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have a number of reservations in this area, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation No 4. In these times of concern, however, we can rejoice in the fact that we do have a social security system capable of delivering even in difficult times. Covid-19 has in recent weeks forced a series of changes in social security. All in all, it is about combating the pandemic and at the same time continuing to provide people with a basis to stand on. Anyone who has a fever, cough, nose or sore throat can and should stay at home if we are to protect our elderly and fragile. Moreover, these measures are supported by a united political parliament. We Christian Democrats believe that social security should be compulsory and jointly funded through the public sector. It has been a strength in these times that we in Sweden have chosen that path. In the United States, a different route has been chosen, which means that more than one in four industrial workers will not be paid if they stay at home because of illness. It makes the work against the pandemic so much more difficult there. Madam President, I would like For those who do not suffer permanent reduced work capacity, a functioning rehabilitation chain is important. There shall be time limits and agreed reconciliation points to ensure that a sick leave process contains and is characterised by activity, early intervention and clear rules. The sick person must have continuous contact with Försäkringskassan and early individual support. However, the rehabilitation chain is not designed to cope with a growing mental illness. A fatigue syndrome is something completely different from a broken leg. Psychiatric diagnoses increased rapidly in the 2010s, and today half of all sick leave is due to them. Here we must give Försäkringskassan better tools than those you have to work with today. Madam President, I would like In the debates on health insurance that have taken place this parliamentary term, I have reiterated the message that not everyone can work 100% of a full-time job but that everyone should have the opportunity to work 100% of their ability. If we allow work capacity, not incapacity for work, to be the starting point, the need for more flexibility becomes clear. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the fixed steps in sickness benefit, sickness benefit and rehabilitation allowance, which are today 25, 50, 75 or 100 %, should be abolished. It must be possible for a person to work for example another 10% if that is where the limit is for successful rehabilitation. But today is not possible, with the blunt, firm steps. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight prevention. If we are to succeed in our work of having a social security system that is able to deliver in the future, we need to focus more on prevention. There is therefore a need for policies that contribute to reducing stress and creating good conditions for improving public health. The opportunities for everyone to get their unique life puzzles together are thus influenced by the policies pursued in a wide range of areas alongside social security.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-67	Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the Social Security Committee's report on social security issues. This is largely about the security that will catch us when we are affected by illness or injury. These are big and important issues, even when we do not have a pandemic to deal with. This crisis, however, really brings light to our social security systems and calls for reflection. In situations such as these, where uncertainty and insecurity affect a great many, it is extremely important that we act quickly, resolutely and in broad agreement. This has certainly been done in this case. Before I go on to give a more general account of social security policy, I would like to take this opportunity to mention some of the measures taken by the government in the field of health insurance. Discarded carer's and deleted medical certificates during the first few days of illness have been absolutely necessary measures to reduce the spread of infection and relieve the health care system, which needs to pool resources to care for the sick and save lives. In short, you should be able to stay at home if you have symptoms, without having to worry about the economy. Another important message is that if a treatment or operation is cancelled or postponed because the health care system is now so heavily strained, you should not lose your sickness benefit. Despite strong action, society is hit hard. This crisis highlights the importance of having strong health and security systems. At the same time, however, we see the shortcomings that exist in the systems. Today, many suffer from illness or unemployment. There are many of us who see it at close range and are affected. The good thing about all the misery, however, is that community emerges. I think we should embrace it and build on it. Madam President, I would like Disease and ill-health affect already vulnerable and weaker groups in society particularly hard. For us Social Democrats, safe and well-functioning health insurance is part of the strong society. It's supposed to be there for us when we're at our weakest. The principle is simple: We pay when we are healthy, and we get back when we are sick. We want health insurance that means that those who are ill and unable to work are entitled to rapid rehabilitation and financial security during the time needed. When the accident arrives, it shouldn't be the health insurance you're worried about. But I know that for many in society today it is the opposite. There are many of us in this House who have come into contact with people who have been refused sick leave and referred to the Employment Service without understanding why. There is much we Social Democrats want to do to improve health insurance where we have not yet reached all the way through. Some things we've done. We have abolished the longer deadline, we have raised the ceiling so that more people receive more reasonable compensation and we have ensured that a national coordinator puts the focus on the individual in the sick leave process. We have taken the initiative of a broad pool of forces to bring down the rising sickness rates, and we want to strengthen rehabilitation. At the same time, we have seen that the application of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has led more people to feel that they do not get the security they need in a vulnerable situation. This makes it visible that the regulatory framework does not provide adequate protection. That is why the government is continuing its work. A report on sick pay for those with permanent reduced working capacity has just been set up. Sweden has the OECD's toughest requirement to receive sickness benefit, even though we know that a large proportion of those who are denied benefit are not able to work. It is not right to force these people to apply for health certificates over and over again, take resources into the health care system or go with a lump in the stomach with concerns about how to get the economy together when life is difficult. Another study has recently presented conclusions on the application of what is called normal work in health insurance and specific reasons. Part of the rehabilitation chain is that after 180 days the work capacity is tested against, as it is said, normal work. If you are considered to be able to work to do any possible job, whether it is in reality or not, you are usually denied the compensation you are expected to receive and must make yourself available to the labour market. No specific reasons for exemption appear to exist. We Social Democrats think it reasonable that there should be control posts during the sick leave process. It may be okay to try another job than the current employer. But just as reasonable as such a trial is, it becomes as strange that if you have a job that you can come back to, you need to look for a job just because you don't get that operation that you're waiting for. This type of edge and rigidity is far beyond reasonableness, and the assessments are perceived by many as legally insecure and difficult to understand. This particular problem is raised and analysed in the sub-report An understandable and safe health insurance, which was presented earlier this spring. It is worth mentioning that if the proposals in the report on normal employment are heard, they should in future be specified and specified. More exceptions are also proposed to test work capacity against the whole labour market, for example when there is reason to believe that a return to work is possible with the employer and for people approaching retirement age. Once it is time for us in this House to decide on the proposals, I hope that together we are ready to make health insurance clearer, safer, more generous and better. Madam President, I would like There is really a lot more to say about these issues, and we will come back to that after the crisis work. The Pandemine puts us all to the test. It shows us how important our healthcare systems are. Together, we're going to get through the Corona crisis. We can do it if we hold out and stick together, but we keep our distance. I support the proposal in the report.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-83	Madam President, I would like Our common insurance systems have the overall aim of providing the individual with security when life changes, when you fall ill, when you lose your job or when you otherwise lose your income or livelihood. The report we are debating today is about social security. It is about support and compensation in the event of reduced work capacity, often in the case of illness. It is about the way back to a healthier life, back to work, or how life can be adapted to the work capacity that you have. Safe health insurance is a key element in the strong society that we want. When the individual is affected, there must be social security. When an entire society is affected, our common systems are being tested extra hard. The government and parliament have acted resolutely and forcefully in the footsteps of the coronapendem. We have been able to make extensive use of the social security systems that we have built up in the past. They have proved to be stable and capable of strengthening in the crisis situation. Through strong public finances, we can strengthen support for individuals affected by the infection and its effects. It's gonna cost a lot of money. We count the extra support for individuals in tens of billions of SEK. It is a lot of money, but it can be compared to support for business. Maybe we don't have the same elaborate system. Rather, the cost of it will be counted in hundreds of billions. We can also compare it with support for civil society. The general extra support that has so far been communicated there is 1 billion, which is shared between culture and sport. I don't put much value into it. It may be discussed in more detail later in the day in the context of the debate on our amending budget. But I think that the comparison is something that should be included in the reflections and analyses that will have to be done in the footsteps of the pandemic when we evaluate the society in which we live. It's about how durable it is, how resilient it is and how sustainable lives we live. Madam President, I would like We have a health insurance system that is expected to provide security in case of illness. It is about financial compensation when you cannot work and about support on the way back to freshness and work. We can see that we have a system that works predominantly well. At the same time, however, we see people being squeezed or falling between the different security systems. For example, unemployment insurance does not always catch people where health insurance leaves them. It can also be about people who are insured or denied sickness benefit even though the ability to work alone is so impaired that it is simply not possible to work. Sometimes rehabilitation is not adapted to the individual's situation or conditions. Too many people testify that they feel pressure and mistrust, rather than support and trust. We need to strengthen our health insurance systems. The Green Party voted against the change that the then alliance government pushed through with the current rehabilitation chain, tough deadlines and a far-away parantes, which are now, thankfully, gone. The Green Party wants to see a whole new security system. It shall be a system in which sickness insurance and unemployment insurance are merged and merged under a common authority. It should be a system where you do not fall between the chairs but that is personalised and flexible. It shall be based on trust and meet the insured person in his/her own situation. We will work from a holistic perspective. The Green Party has been running this for a long time. We call the system job security, and that is our response to many of the problems we see with both unemployment insurance and health insurance. But such a change takes time. In the near future, adjustments need to be made within the current framework. It is therefore gratifying that the government takes the issues of safer health insurance, sickness benefit and activity benefit very seriously. Some improvements have been made. The major changes have been delayed, but I believe and hope that we should be able to make important decisions – and further important decisions – in relative proximity. The ongoing Health Insurance investigation has so far submitted two interim reports with important and good proposals. The third and final part of the report is expected in just a few weeks' time, at the end of this month. Some improvements have also been made in the area of sickness and activity benefits. Among other things, the government has increased the levels of guarantees and the housing supplement. A recent investigation has been set up to review the conditions under which compensation is granted. If you are long-term ill and therefore have a persistently impaired working capacity, it is the sickness benefit that should be able to provide the long-term security. One should not have to worry that the livelihood will be taken away from one if one wants to try out working or activating in civil society, associations or politics, for example. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech by saying something about one of the motions in the report that I myself have been involved in writing. It's about basic income or citizen's salary. I have written it together with my party colleague, Rebecka Le Moine, who is also on the list of speakers today. Of course, we wrote the exercise before we had a health crisis, a pandemic, over us. However, the pandemic makes the exercise even more topical. The Corona virus is believed to originate from poor animal husbandry – the market with live animals – in the dictatorship of China. We cannot say whether the rapid spread or the emergence of this particular crisis has anything to do with our Western way of life. But we know for sure that we have other major crises around the corner that definitely have to do with our lifestyle. We have the climate crisis. It's not a crisis, it's several. These are, for example, various weather-related crises. It is almost as if we have already forgotten the massive megaburns in Australia just a few months ago. These are different types of refugee crisis. To the situation of some 70 million refugees today, globally, the UN believes that we will need to add another 200 million climate-related refugees only in the next two decades. Then it will continue if we do not make radical changes in our way of life. The rapid decline in the number of species in both flora and fauna, i.e. the threat to biodiversity, will also mean severe global crises, perhaps further pandemics. Our ecosystems are losing resilience, and the planet is becoming more vulnerable. It is the way we live that is the reason for all of this. We need to change our way of life. New technology is very good, but it is not electrification that will save us. Nor will digitalization, smart cities or AI. We need to change our way of life, and we need to change our economic systems. Basic income is basically another way of looking at work, the economy and sustainability. In the Corona crisis, more and more serious actors have seriously started to talk about citizens' wages, basic income, as a solution to a sustainable and resilient post-corona society. That's interesting. Basic income needs to be investigated, and that's what our exercise is about. With that, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-102	Madam President, I would like Because of the Corona crisis, we have all been called upon to keep a distance and to stay at home as far as possible. This has led to a reduction in consumption. We only consume the essentials. Actually, it's a little ironic that the economy crashes when we only consume the most necessary. But the sad effects are that many have lost income and jobs and the basic security of life itself. Many who have had income now do not know if they dare to spend their money, as the next income is highly uncertain. Many people will not be caught up in the announced measures in place, which only indirectly provide people with security through employers and conditions. Money is always given with conditions. One has to work or fill out the right forms and meet different criteria. When we find that people end up between the chairs, because they do, we find new ways. We find ways to lower thresholds, introduce retroactive payments and include more categories of people. But why, really? Why do we have to make this so difficult for ourselves? Should economic fundamental security not be part of human rights? Could it not be possible to give money directly to citizens? Yes, you can, and it's done. With the Corona crisis, more than 30 countries have introduced policies with different types of basic income. Madam President, I would like There is a very effective cure for poverty: money. There is also a political recipe for basic security: basic income. Why, then, do we not already have basic income? Some believe that society stays if we get money without compensation, such as that we humans can only be motivated by money. It's a cynical image of man that I don't share. I think we all have a will and a desire to contribute to something better. There's already evidence of that with all thousands of people who volunteer for a better world. Not least in coronatides, solidarity is strongly felt. You help each other. You help your neighbors. You help your relatives. You help those who need help. You're there for each other. There is no evidence whatsoever that the basic security of basic income makes you lazy. Thus, society would not stop or stop developing. Madam President, I would like The 2019 Nobel Prize winners in their field studies and tests show that unconditional money does not make people less likely to work or make them spend their money recklessly. On the contrary, those people spend their money more responsibly than those who are financially well off. Actually, maybe it's not that strange. It should be clear that the direct problems that need to be solved are what one tackles first. Those with a strong economy have more tendency to spend money on unnecessary things, such as alcohol, drugs, gambling and casual pleasures. It puts us in dependence and leads to a burden on society. The poor spend their money on food, water and supplies and invest them in long-term projects. Madam President, I would like We no longer create jobs to fulfill goals, but we create goals for us to work. It feels very strange. 20th-century economist John Maynard Keyne predicted that 15 hours of work week would be enough for his grandchildren – due to efficiency – to produce the necessary work. It is positive that machines and efficiency relieve people of hard and monotonous jobs. But creating jobs at all costs, whether meaningful or ecological, is the very opposite of sustainable development. A greener and more united path, Madam President, would be to divide jobs and consumption space by reducing working hours. Madam President, I would like Money doesn't grow on trees, they say. But they do. Ecology is the primary economy itself. From there, we'll get everything. All resources and building components come from the ecosystem's ability to create. The monetary economy is the secondary economy. If we see it as the right of all people on earth to these ecosystem services, all people should have the right to a basic economy. Madam President, I would like The Green Party's vision is that anyone without income should be guaranteed support that is viable, regardless of the income they have had in the past and regardless of the reason why they lack income. There are many questions about basic income. It is high time to straighten out these questions and really examine basic income.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-111	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal regarding the regulation of weapons storage facilities will be rejected by a large majority in the Riksdag. That's very good. The government has tried to claim that the Warehouse Act is designed to combat the serious gang crime, despite the fact that today's legislation already provides for the disposal of warehouses from criminals. The serious crimes and shootings are committed by serious criminals who should have more and more severe penalties, and they are mainly committed by illegal and smuggled weapons. The fact that the magazine law would be so crucial to combating gang crime and serious crime is not even credible, as the government at the same time says no to all the sharp proposals of the Moderates against gang crime and serious crime. The government has rejected the following proposal from the Moderates: We want more police officers working with gang criminals and increased salaries for the police. We want to get more former police officers back to their police work. We want paid police training, more police support and more. We want to double the penalties for the criminals. So they're supposed to be in prison for a long time. Why does the government think they should have a lighter sentence? We want to introduce search zones. We want to impose a restraining order. We want to lower the limit for detention. We want more surveillance cameras. We want to test the Crown Witness system. We want to try anonymous witnesses. We want to abolish the penalty rebate and the quantity rebate system currently in place for criminals. If they're in prison, they don't commit crimes in the city squares and streets. It is incomprehensible, Madam President, that the S-government still believes that people who commit many crimes should have an amount rebate on time of punishment. Instead, they should have more punishment, proving that they are incapable of being out in society. The government rejects these proposals from the Moderates or stalls them with new investigations. Instead, the government is putting power on a new weapons - magazine team, which will hit the country's hunters and sportsmen hard. Madam President, I would like Instead of really pursuing serious crime, the government continues to hunt the country's hunters and sportsmen, which is totally unacceptable. The police should not invite serious criminals for pizza and coffee, but serious criminals should be arrested and put inside the lock and key. Society must be protected from their ruthless serious crime. Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that the S-government in these coronatides is continuing to work on this proposal, that in these times of the virus it is trying to make it more difficult for the country's legal hunters, sportsmen and collectors and that it is putting effort into trying to get its magazine bill through, which was already seen by the majority in parliament at an early stage. Madam President, I would like Most consultation bodies have said no to the proposal. Yet the government continues its stubborn struggle to try to make it harder for the country's hunters and sportsmen. Madam President, I would like We have over 600 000 gun owners in Sweden. They have the most stringent requirements in terms of training, examinations, storage and fitness. They're in constant control. Every gun owner in Sweden is checked daily. What if the government had had the same control of crime and the criminals here in Sweden! Our hunters and sportsmen behave in an exemplary manner. They care for our wildlife, take care of our injured animals, and care for our game tribes. Our sportsmen train and compete for Sweden and often show very good results. Our arms collectors take care of and care for our old cultural heritage. The fact that the government is nevertheless trying to put forward new proposals that will make it more difficult, expensive and delay the country's hunters and sportsmen is therefore very remarkable. Madam President, I would like In the run-up to the elections, many Social Democrats clearly stated that they would not impair the country's legal arms owners. Now after the election, they have tried twice to produce proposals that increase the hassle for the country's hunters and sportsmen. At first, the government tried to over-implement the EU directive but realised that it was not possible and withdrew the proposal because it lacked support both in referrals and in a majority in the Riksdag. So that proposal was put in the trash by the government itself. However, this magazine proposal soon came back and was not referred to the EU directive, but rather to gang crime. After the proposal has been reviewed by the consultation bodies, the Law Council and a majority in the Riksdag, the Riksdag will now place the magazine regulation in the trash. Madam President, I would like This bill to start regulating weapons warehouses should never have been written. It should never have come to Parliament, and it should never have burdened Parliament's work during these coronatimes. It should have been put directly in the trash. Instead, the Parliament will now do so. Fighting criminals by making it more difficult for the country's hunters and sportsmen is not the way to go. In order to combat serious crime, the Moderates have proposed a number of points that I have previously listed here but which the government has chosen not to implement. Madam President, I would like Today, with today's legislation, the police are already taking care of some 1 000 weapons warehouses per year. The fact that it is not possible to dispose of magazines with today's legislation is therefore not true – it is already being done today. There are no statistics on returned magazines. The police have already, with the support of the Criminal Code regarding seizures and confiscations, the possibility of seizing and seizing various items that are suspected of being or intended to be used in criminal activities. If that law needs to be tightened up and clarified further in the Criminal Code, this is quite possible, and it is also a proposal put forward by the Moderates, the KD and the SD in a joint reservation in the report. But creating a new legislation that criminalises possession of magazines affects hunters, sportsmen and collectors in a completely unreasonable way. It is not reasonable to criminalise a hunter or a sportsman who has left an old warehouse from a previously owned weapon or to complicate the trade in warehouses between the country's hunters and sportsmen. Nor is it reasonable to burden the police with new control data and permit cases when it is already difficult to give authorisation to the country's hunters and sportsmen within a reasonable time. Today, Madam President, we already have long processing times, and the police have more important things to do than new tasks in the form of licensing tests for the country's hunters' and sportsmen's weapons warehouses. The police are going after criminals. They should not sit in the office with new processing cases – it requires both time and resources, and it costs money. The police currently handle about 70 000 – 80 000 arms licensing cases and about 15 000 silencer cases, adding an additional perhaps 50 000 magazine cases is completely unreasonable and a completely wrong priority in terms of the use of police resources. Madam President, I would like Despite the election promises of several Social Democrats, the S ‐ government, with the support of the Green Party, continues to try to make it more difficult for the country's legal hunters and sportsmen. And despite the fact that a large majority of Sweden's parliament in an announcement has called on the government to take several measures to facilitate the country's hunters and sportsmen, the government refuses to implement this. That is not acceptable. Already in March 2015, a large majority in the Riksdag called on the government to establish a new wildlife agency. The government has still not begun that work. It has now been five years, and the government is apparently obstinate against the decision here in Parliament. When's the Wildlife Authority coming? Madam President, I would like On 19 June 2019, almost a year ago, a large majority in the Riksdag decided that the Government would: severe the penalties for gun crimes severe the penalties for arms smuggling 中 carry out a review of arms legislation to facilitate the country's hunters and sportsmen and reduce police work
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-146	中 Remove the time-limited weapons licenses 中 extend the arms curtain 中 review the rules on the EU Arms Passport. It has now been almost a year, and the government has not even begun that work. Instead of addressing the issues in Parliament's announcements, the government is working on new proposals that are worse for the country's legal arms owners, proposals that the opposition previously said no to. What does the Social Democratic Government really have against the country's hunters and sportsmen? Madam President, I would like We Moderates will continue to support and facilitate the country's legal hunters, sportsmen and collectors. However, we will also press for the fight against serious crime with both a tougher grip and a longer sentence. The bill for the regulation of weapons warehouses has one place: in the trash. I support the proposal for a decision in paragraph 1 of the report rejecting the proposal and reservation 4.
i-HYzqkBuBDsahHvEiDLEaee	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Justice's report on the Regulation of Arms Warehouses. First of all, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 4 and, secondly, for the committee's proposal for a decision in paragraph 1. On a question addressed to the Minister of the Interior regarding the regulation of weapons storage facilities, the Minister of the Interior replied that it has happened that the Police Authority has had to return weapons storage facilities to criminals. For me as a trained police officer, this sounds very strange because, in this case, weapons warehouses can be forfeited even if there is no pre-trial investigation, if there is a suspicion that they can come to criminal use. To a question from the Swedish Democrats regarding how many magazines the police are forced to return to criminals every year, Mikael Damberg could not answer when such statistics were not available. All police seizures are documented, and it is therefore remarkable that no such statistics exist. Apparently, however, this is perceived as a problem within the Police Authority. The question then is whether the proposal put forward by the government is best suited to the needs that exist. Our view, like that of the majority of the opposition and of the profession, is that it does not. The proposal put forward by the government risks hitting the law-abiding arms owners while the criminals may be relatively unconcerned by comparison. Instead, we propose that the provisions of the Criminal Code on confiscation be supplemented by an explicit power to seize and confiscate detachable warehouses found in criminal settings and in situations where they are feared to be used for life and health offences. Then there is the opportunity to give the police the tools they require without affecting law-abiding gun owners' possession of weapons warehouses. Madam President, I would like The circulation of illegal weapons in criminal circles is a problem that all parties want to address. Those holding these weapons do not have them for hunting or participating in competitions or for other acceptable purposes. They have them to harm and frighten both criminals and law - abiding people. This is not acceptable. Criminal gangs lack respect for laws and regulations, and the regulation of weapons warehouses will therefore not have the expected effect. Criminals will handle weapons warehouses the same way they handle illegal weapons, that is, hide them from the police. What we know with certainty is that the proposed regulation of weapons warehouses will affect the country's legal arms owners. It is of great importance for them to comply with the legislation in force in order to maintain their arms licences. Already in the 1990s, five-year licenses for one-handed weapons were considered to be the solution to the problem of shootings in criminal environments. With the facts in mind, we know that this was not the case. Regulation of weapons storage facilities will have the same effect and will only increase the cost and administration of the police and shooting associations and make possession of weapons more difficult for law-abiding citizens, while gang shootings will not be affected at all. Although the Social Democrats have received widespread criticism for their handling of the matter, they have not abandoned their policy but are calling for even tougher rules for the possession of weapons. What is needed are rules that clearly aim for illegal possession of arms and the handling that is behind it, not symbolic measures that are refused to be dropped because of an ill-founded prestige on the issue. Madam President, I would like On the contrary, if this were a tool aimed at criminals, it would have been possible to legislate so that those who hold a gun license can hold all kinds of magazines, when many hunters and sportsmen regularly buy and sell weapons and can therefore have many different types of magazines in their possession. The person who holds an arms license is by definition law-abiding and is therefore not one of those who the government claims to want to stop by requiring a permit for magazines. Hunting and sports shooting are major popular movements whose survival is important to Sweden. It is not just a cultural phenomenon. It is also important from a total defence perspective to preserve the knowledge of weapons throughout the country of law-abiding citizens. As the Government's proposal hits legal gun owners hardest, it is difficult not to see this as another attempt to over-implement the Weapons Directive by using the ongoing work against gang crime as a pretext.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-163	Madam President, I would like To get results, you have to do the right things, and you have to do things right. In almost every speech I make in this House, which deals with legal policy in any form, I tend to highlight the value of establishing a long-term line and sticking to it, even when current political wind villages are at risk of driving us off course. This speech is no exception. The proposal for the regulation of weapons storage facilities should never have been put on the table of Parliament. The government knew that it could not win the majority, yet it did. Why? The only reason I can think of is that the government wants to make some kind of political point of it all. It is trying to make it appear that we and others who think that the proposal goes wrong do not care about the security of our country. You choose to spend time and energy, your own and others', on a bad proposal that lacks the ability to reach a majority. What is a pity in all of this is that the government now actually had the chance to show leadership and overcome the debate that is based on simplification and that gets energy out of conscious misunderstandings and people's concerns about social development. Listening in, trying to find solutions and moving forward, first and foremost with the parties who voted in favour of the arms directive in the European Parliament, would in all likelihood be a more successful method than aggressively seeking confrontation on Twitter and painting opponents as indifferent to violence and part of a so-called weapons lobby. Unfortunately, the government, through senior officials, has chosen precisely the latter, which undoubtedly makes it more difficult to find a solution to the situation that the government has put itself in. Madam President, I would like Let me make one thing perfectly clear: the Center Party is taking the increase in gun violence very seriously. We are deeply concerned about developments and have therefore been involved in developing a number of cross-block measures to stop gun violence, for example in the agreements concluded in 2015 and 2017 to strengthen measures against illegal weapons. We have also put forward a number of own proposals to combat killings and gang violence. For example, the Center Party has proposed substantially increased penalties for arms crimes, increased penalties for arms smuggling and increased powers and tools to stop arms smuggling. We have proposed strengthened possibilities to restrict the introduction of arms into the EU and increased opportunities for information exchange and intelligence activities within the EU to limit arms smuggling. We have pushed and heard to increase the number of police officers and to increase the resources available to the police to work against arms smuggling. The Center Party has also been involved in developing a package of measures against gang crime and in getting through the proposal to set up a security committee. We are ready to turn over every stone needed to create greater security and security, but we are not prepared to agree to measures that clearly push past the target. The government's proposal to regulate weapons warehouses does not bring significant benefits in the fight against gun violence, but it affects the proper owners of legal weapons in a tangible way. The intended benefits of the proposal are not proportionate to the problems raised by the proposal. The government believes that the bill has come in order for the police to seize weapons warehouses from gang criminals. We believe that the seizure and confiscation rules in the Criminal Code already today give the police the right to seize and confiscate objects when the circumstances are such that it may be feared that the object may be used for criminal purposes. The 34-point programme against gang crime that the Center Party has been involved in developing also includes a point about reviewing and tightening up confiscation legislation. There is a possibility to strengthen the wording of seizures and confiscations if necessary to further increase the possibility for the police to seize weapons warehouses. The government's proposal will affect hunters, sportsmen and collectors in a way that cannot be considered reasonable. This will mean that law - abiding citizens risk committing crimes with prison sentences because they happen to have an old warehouse lying in the attic or keep an old warehouse from a weapon they no longer own. Increased regulation also means a higher burden on the police, which today handles licensing. We believe that arms licences should be managed by an authority specialised in hunting, wildlife and arms issues, which can build up skills to deal with arms licensing applications in a legally secure and effective way that will also be equivalent, regardless of where in the country you live. In our view, the legislative proposal also has major shortcomings in terms of legal certainty. In fact, it is difficult to define a weapons warehouse, as the Law Council has also emphasised in its criticism of the bill. We agree with the Council of Law's criticism because we believe that a subject subject subject to authorisation must be defined in a clear and legally secure manner. Unfortunately, this is an inefficient, disproportionate and legally insecure proposal that will make more law-abiding citizens criminal than counter gun violence and gang crime. With the proposed proposal, Swedish arms legislation risks becoming even more of a patchwork instead of a functional and coherent regulatory framework. The government therefore needs to take a stand on arms issues and listen to the criticism that has come from both the Law Council and the hunting and shooting movement. The Centre Party therefore calls for the proposal to be rejected by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. At the same time, I would like to support the Center Party's reservation No 5, which means that we should instead continue to work towards long-term sensible and effective arms legislation.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-178	Madam President, I would like No, it's not a very good bill from the government on the regulation of weapons warehouses. It is clear that the proposal does not have the support of Parliament and that it will not be put through. There is a risk that this law would hit legal gun owners and lead to unnecessary administration for gun owners and shooting clubs. Swedish regulation of firearms and ammunition provides a high level of protection internationally. The focus of the Left Party is to regulate the illegal weapons used in criminal environments. We don't want to make it more difficult for legal gun owners like hunters and sportsmen. However, according to the government, gun owners will not be affected at all by the proposed amendment to the law, but there is much evidence that sporting clubs, for example, may suffer from a lot of administration around the handling of weapons storage facilities. It is unclear how the handling of magazines that do not have a clear definition and do not have a clear owner should take place. According to the Government, the purpose of the proposal is to regulate weapons warehouses found by the police in criminal settings. Today there is no regulation of weapons warehouses in Sweden. If a weapons warehouse is found in a criminal environment, it may not be possible for the warehouse to be seized by the police. It also happens that magazines taken care of by the police must be returned to the gang criminal. That is, of course, a completely unreasonable order. But the government's proposal risks going far beyond what the directive requires. There is also a lack of clarity as to how a weapons warehouse should be defined – this is something that the Law Council has also highlighted. The reason why the Left Party nevertheless felt that it was justified to support the Government's proposal – the same proposal that will not now be passed through in the Riksdag – is that there is just a lack of clarity about weapons warehouses and that criminal environments may exploit gaps in the law in the way that can happen today. We're gonna have to try and shut this down. However, we would never allow legislation to be passed that could affect legal gun owners unnecessarily, but, as we write in our specific opinion, we would follow up the legislation to ensure that unnecessary administration would not affect legal gun owners. With this, Madam President, I will not be in favour of the reservation today. I refer to the special opinion of the Left Party.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-186	Madam President, I would like Over the past few years, we have seen how the gross gang-related violence has linked a grip on increasingly large parts of our country. One of the most important tasks of our society is to guarantee the safety of its citizens. The fight against this crime must therefore be intensified by strong laws and measures. Serious violence has reached historically high levels. Shootings and bombings are no longer unusual but often occur in news reports and are even something that many people have to adapt their everyday lives to. In 2019, for example, 334 shootings and 257 bombings took place. According to the police, the situation is lacking internationally. Criminal gangs make a living from drug sales and other crime and are described as both more aggressive and violent than before. The gangs recruit deep down in their ages and fortify their power by threatening witnesses and using violence, which also affects the innocent. This is the reality in Sweden when we enter this new decade. Nevertheless, the government has not been prepared to take effective action against gang crime and violence in full. The government says on point-by-point no to proposals for strong measures, such as substantially increased penalties for gang-related crime. Instead of providing the police and the other judiciary with the necessary resources and tools to reverse the fight against gang violence, the government is engaged in putting forward a bill that makes it more difficult for law-abiding citizens. The regulation of removable magazines proposed by the government in the bill meets, as an example of this, completely wrong target groups. Instead of making it more difficult for gang criminals to commit violent crimes, the government is targeting the Swedish hunting and shooting movement. The government's proposal makes it more difficult for ordinary hunters and sportsmen to buy, possess, use and store magazines for hunting, training and competitions. At the same time, equivalent, or even better, results could be achieved with significantly less interventional legislation. The Christian Democrats do not support the government's proposal. In doing so, we support the committee's rejection of the proposal under paragraph 1 on the subject we are debating now. Madam President, I would like One of the main aims of the government's proposal to regulate detachable warehouses is to make it easier for the police to seize and confiscate warehouses found in criminals. Already today, warehouses are seized by the police; in 2019 approximately 1,000 warehouses were seized. In order to ensure that this work is facilitated and that any ambiguities regarding seizures are removed, the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, propose, unlike the government, that the provisions of the Criminal Code on confiscation can be supplemented by an explicit power to seize and confiscate removable warehouses found in criminal settings and in situations where they are feared to be used in crimes against life or health. Such powers would make it possible to seize detachable warehouses found in criminals, even if it is not possible to confiscate them under the Arms Act. The Christian Democrats, on the basis of this reasoning, are in favour of reservation 4. In order to avoid any further delay, we also propose that the Government quickly investigate the matter and return to the Riksdag with a concrete proposal according to our request. Madam President, I would like We believe that this route is a better and more effective way to access the possession of weapons storage facilities by criminals without creating any further problems for ordinary hunters and sportsmen. These ordinary people should not have to suffer from the adaptation and limitation of society on the basis of what its most destructive forces through gang crime come up with. One way to avoid this is not to lump together hunters and sportsmen with those who behave the worst in society. Tougher grip on gang crime needs strong measures to ensure the security of our society. Unfortunately, the government's proposal for the regulation of weapons warehouses is not an example of this, as today's debate and the Committee on Justice's position show. Over-implementing the EU's weapons directive or regulating weapons warehouses is not the way to put an end to serious crime, since instead of tackling the problem of gang crime, they mainly affect law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Other measures are needed to tackle gang crime. The message from the Riksdag to the Government is therefore: Redo, do the right thing!
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-201	Madam President, I would like This is a rather unambiguous debate, and it is clear that the proposal will fall. I'm very happy about that. We Liberals voted against the proposal. We have been against it in the European Parliament. We have our own proposal today, which I would like to highlight – reservation 2 from the Liberals – and we will vote against the government in this proposal, which in many ways is an accident. You can kill each other in many different ways. In coronatides there are many who work from home and who may have a TV series on in the background while working. In a TV series that I saw quite a long time ago-- I think it was the Murder Commission, but it may also have been the Murder of Midsomer-- a murder is committed with a frozen salmon. One person slaps a frozen salmon in the back of another person's head. Then they eat the salmon for dinner, and the murder weapon disappears. You could probably murder someone with the President's mallet, too. It looks pretty handy and heavy. But just because something's a little dangerous, you can't ban it. Just because it's possible to kill someone with something, you can't just forbid it. The person who can murder someone with a salmon will, so to speak, murder someone regardless of the trap, while the person who is deemed fit to possess a weapon will not kill anyone regardless of whether the person has a salmon, a gun or a hunting rifle. We have severe restrictions on weapons in Sweden, and that is exactly how the arms legislation should work: Before one is deemed appropriate to possess a weapon, one has been reviewed and threshed through the system and judged to be a person who will not kill anyone with the weapon. And if you won't kill someone with the gun, why couldn't you have a magazine? That's completely unreasonable. Besides, I think it's harder to kill someone with a magazine than with a frozen salmon. Madam President, I would like There have been quite a few absurd arguments in this debate, particularly from the side of the government and Minister Damberg. Perhaps the most bizarre thing has been to come home to professional and criminal gangs who have presented magazines a little here and were in the apartment, and the police cannot seize them. That is nonsense, Madam President. Firstly, storage can be seized if it is suspected that it can be used for criminal purposes. Secondly, no one seriously believes that a professional criterion capable of hiding hand grenades, Kalashnikovs and pistols would not have the ability to hide a warehouse. It is a bizarre thought, and I really do not understand that argument at all. It has also been suggested that this should be done precisely in search of criminals. But it's not like that. Sweden has a tough regulation of weapons, and that is perhaps why most crimes are committed with illegal weapons. These weapons are, as it were, illegal from the beginning because it is so tightly regulated who can have legal weapons. So those who have come through the eye of the needle that it means to get permission to have weapons are persons who are fit to have weapons. The people who are criminals are by their very nature; that is in the definition. They will not comply with these regulations and laws put forward by the government. It is bizarre to think that criminals would care about such legislation. It is also bizarre to think that it would help because we know that the crimes committed are committed with illegal weapons and not with legal weapons. Madam President, I would like What may upset me most about this matter comes from having lived in Tensta myself for quite a few years. I've been on the Rinkeby district council. I have been involved in dealing with issues where criminals, professionals, in different ways have entered and influenced children in the school environment. Professional criminals who have thrown hand grenades, shooting – that kind of situation I have had to deal with in my political act. It makes me extremely provoked that Minister Mikael Damberg – he is not here today and cannot defend himself; I apologise, but he may be happy to come here some other time – has spent so much time and so much effort trying to push through this bill, which everyone has known from day one will not pass through this House. Despite the fact that there is so much serious crime out there, crime that breaks down lives, that young people and children lose lives, lose friends, that parents lose their children and that life is broken down, perhaps forever, so much time has been spent trying to enforce this legislation. It's embarrassing, and I'm being deeply provoked. Government Mikael Damberg is not a Lucky Luke. True, he shoots from the hip, hello wild, but unlike Luke, he doesn't even hit the target. Madam President, I would like It has been said by a party leader that in Sweden it is forbidden to be a criminal, and that is true. In Sweden it is forbidden to have illegal weapons. Yes, it's true. In Sweden it is forbidden to kill each other. That's true, too. Madam President, I would like If you really want to help the police to curb the serious gang crime that exists in this country, perhaps you should not impose a greater administrative burden on the police, but instead provide resources so that the police can find and take the illegal weapons that are actually used in criminal circles. I think that if we managed to take the illegal weapons instead of going around looking for and hunting magazines – in addition, in a way that mainly affects legal gun owners, legal hunters and legal sportsmen – and if we took the resources spent on all this work and instead put them on the line to provide resources and remove administrative burdens from the police, then perhaps more of the illegal weapons would be found. If they had, these magazines would not have been very dangerous, for a warehouse without an illegal weapon is hardly more dangerous than a frozen perch. Madam President, I would like This is a crazy over-implementment. It's a hazelnut. We say no to this, and we have said no to this from day one.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-215	Madam President, I would like It has been a while since I debated justice policy, but in the light of the extraordinary situation we find ourselves in, I am taking this debate on behalf of Mr Sandell. The last term of office, when I was on the Committee on Justice, began a major revision of the moderated justice policy. We analysed Europol cooperation, procedural law, criminal law, the capacity of the Prison Service, prevention and reintegration after serving time and spent much of our time addressing what the police labeled as particularly criminalised residential areas. There was broad agreement in Parliament at the time that we needed to tighten up justice policy in order to reverse developments, especially with regard to gang crime. The results of the last parliamentary term meant more than 100 proposals to Parliament for a proper capacity expansion of the Prison Service and detention centres, cross-government efforts for rapid prosecution and the expansion of new police colleges in Malmö and Borås. In addition, during the last parliamentary term, there was an urgent tightening up of the penalty for serious weapons offences. As a result, five times as many people have been arrested for serious weapons offences compared to before. This, in turn, has in all probability prevented shootings and saved human lives. However, in order to round up the strengthened legislation, there is a tendency, according to the police, for criminals to store pieces of weapons, pipes, ammunition and warehouses in various places to escape the seizure of weapons. The proposal which is the subject of today's debate could have helped in this respect. Madam President, I would like The background to this proposal is the new Directive amending the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. The purpose of the Directive is to prevent the misuse of firearms by their use in criminal activities. The Directive introduces a permit requirement for the acquisition of storage facilities of a certain size and for certain weapons. The directive therefore requires that weapons storage facilities be regulated to a certain extent. However, the Weapons Directive is a minimum directive, which means that Member States may adopt provisions that are more stringent than those contained in the Directive. The Government proposes that the Arms Act regulation should cover all detachable warehouses, irrespective of their capacity and size, as weapons warehouses are not subject to the specific confiscation rules contained in the Arms Act. Armoured warehouses can be seized today, but only under certain conditions. Current rules in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure show that the possibility is limited and presupposes that it may be feared that the object may be used for criminal purposes. The controversial question has been whether Sweden should introduce such a general regulation of detachable weapons warehouses. Of the illegal weapons investigated by the Police Authority in 2018, more than 70 per cent were pistols. Pistols almost always have relatively small warehouses and these are not covered by the Directive. Under the Directive, the handling of these warehouses would remain unregulated and such warehouses could continue to be held without the holding being subject to authorisation or sanction. A general regulation is easier to apply as the provision does not need to be limited to arms of a certain size or to warehouses with a certain capacity. The police authority is over-clear in its referral: A general regulation of detachable warehouses provides the opportunity to clearly improve the police's ability to prevent and limit the illegal possession and use of firearms. Having said that, Madam President, we have listened to the criticism of this proposal by the other referral bodies, which has resulted in a change in the proposal. I would like to stress that the proposal allows legal holders of arms who hold permits to freely acquire and hold warehouses with the same purpose as the licence. It is only if the warehouse is for other purposes that authorisation will be required. In this case, the individual gun holder would need to apply for a permit for storage facilities under the same conditions as for ammunition. I would like to add that the majority of the Committee on Justice has argued differently. That is why I support Amendment No 1 in the report.
i-RNLjDGaeNmRQYDxDYUXkxA	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has dealt with 70 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. The claims concern the prison service, its capacity, detention periods, drop-out activities, the content of the sentences, the time between judgment and enforcement, electronic surveillance, treatment interventions, security of the prison services staff, prison places abroad and more. The issues concerning the prison service and its organisation involve the Riksdag. Capacity issues have been the subject of political discussion, as the increased penalties in a wide range of areas and extensive efforts on police activities have resulted in significantly higher client volumes in the criminal services. After 2018, the occupancy rate has increased. The location has been periodically strained, both in custody and in prison. In many places, the occupancy rate has been 95 - 100 percent. It can be seen from the Prison Service's annual report that the regular places in the prison have not been sufficient and that the capacity of the detention centres has been used to the maximum. To deal with this, the Government has provided additional funds to the Prison Service to create temporary and permanent places and strengthen staff supply. However, in the light of more pending proposals in the area of criminal law, increased costs will also be incurred in the area of penitentiary care. For the present year, the government and the budget co-operation parties have increased the funding to the Prison Service by SEK 130 million. In addition, an increase of SEK 569 million has been announced for 2021 and SEK 729 million as of 2022. Madam President, I would like Correctional services actually have two central functions. One is about the sentenced person serving his sentence. The second is that the person who has been convicted of a crime should receive support in returning to a life outside of crime – what the Prison Service itself calls breaking the vicious circle. The Government's mission to the Prison Service, the Police Authority, the State Department Board and the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop a joint national defector programme to strengthen society's support for individuals who want to leave criminal or violent environments is very important. In this context, inclusion programmes, the interaction of voluntary organisations with the prison services and the municipalities' responsibility for crime prevention have a crucial role to play. In addition, the Government has commissioned the Prison Service to further develop the authorities' recidivism prevention work for those convicted of violent crimes against relatives. The Correctional Service will also investigate the prerequisites for carrying out relapse prevention work for persons convicted of honour-related crimes. Effective and targeted action is needed here. The assignment shall be presented by 31 March 2021. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to raise the issue of the criminalisation of escapes. The fact that the inmate does not return to the prison after an unattended stay, for example after a leave, is serious. The annual report of the Prison Service for 2019 shows that 74 deviations from the prison were made during this year. The corresponding figure for 2018 and 2017 was 95 and 109. It is estimated that the number of deviations is constantly decreasing. Nevertheless, it is important that there is a clear link between conditional release and participation in relapse prevention measures. At the moment, a Council of Law referral is being prepared proposing the possibility of postponing conditional release, also in the event of mismanagement other than failure to participate in relapse prevention measures. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force in January 2021 after preparation in the Riksdag. In view of this, I am in favour of reservation 20 in the report.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-235	Madam President, I would like Sweden should have a modern, clear and efficient prison care with high security and meaningful and forward-looking activities. At the same time, there should be clear requirements and rules. In line with the efforts on the police and the punitive measures we are proposing, even more people will be serving sentences in prison. Prison time should follow the judgment quickly, and the case is, of course, for the sentenced person to cease his or her crime. In the motion report on criminal matters being debated today, we have moderates a long list of reservations. We are, of course, all behind them, but I am only in favour of reservation 13. Madam President, I would like It is clear that more places are needed in detention centres and prisons. The current situation of lack of space in detention centres, in particular, is ultimately an effect of the government's lack of action. The government also received criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office last year because the governance of the justice chain does not take sufficient account of the consequences and efficiency of the entire legal chain. It simply lacks a long-term perspective and a holistic approach. This applies not least to the prison services. A capacity analysis of the prison system is needed to develop a concrete and long-term plan for the expansion and future establishment of the prison system. For 2020, we Moderates wanted to add more resources to the prison system than the government, and over time, the prison service will need to be provided with significant resources to ensure more detention and detention places. The content of penalties also needs to be evaluated and further developed. This applies, in particular, to the growing group of young adults with large numbers of violent capital who have no interest in ending their crime. Much can already be done here and now to improve the situation by, for example, shortening the time between judgment and enforcement. This also allows the release of detention centres. Correctional services should be given the task of working to significantly shorten the time between judgment and enforcement. Today, no care or treatment is started for a person in custody. This may result in a person being detained for a long period of time without any relapse prevention measures and without other treatment measures being taken. In addition, prison time is often so short that there is no point in starting a treatment program. We Moderates therefore want to introduce a rule whereby when a person in custody is sentenced to prison, the court should at the same time be able to order that the judgment be immediately enforced regardless of whether or not the person sentenced will appeal. This means that the sentenced person can immediately be transferred to a prison and get started with care and treatment at a much earlier stage. In order to shorten the time between judgment and enforcement, a more restrictive approach should also apply when it comes to granting suspension of enforcement. Too often people do not appear when the time comes to serve the sentence. Over the past four years, more than 400 people have had their prison sentences suspended by staying out of jail. Failure to appear today is not subject to any criminal liability. Anyone sentenced to a prison sentence must also serve the sentence. It is basically a question of respect for and confidence in the judicial system. We therefore want to introduce criminal liability for those who do not report to enforcement. In Sweden, a number of sentenced persons who serve a prison sentence depart from the prison each year. In 2019 there were a total of 74 deviations and escapes from prisons. Deviations and escapes are not punishable. The sanctions are limited and the consequences are small. The police have to put a lot of work into looking for these people, and some of them can also be dangerous in society. In order to reduce the number of deviations during leave, we want the anklet to be used in more cases than today. We Moderates, like the majority of the Committee on Justice, also want derogations and escapes to be punished. In order to create better conditions for breaking a criminal pattern, we Moderates want to introduce a national exit program for gang members. Participation in the national exit programme should be mandatory for convicted gang criminals and professional criminals. The penal services, which already operate all over the country and have extensive experience of the target group, could be the ones to be responsible for carrying out such a programme. Finally, we want to limit the possibility of parole. Today, everyone is automatically released on parole after two thirds of the sentence period. For persons serving long prison sentences, this means that many years are deducted from the sentence. For example, a person who has been sentenced to 12 years in prison can automatically have his sentence reduced by a full four years, even if he has refused to participate in treatment programmes. We Moderates want parole only to take place exceptionally and at the earliest after three quarters of the sentence period. Relapsing offenders shall never be released on parole. It is quite unreasonable that anyone who repeatedly commits crimes should not serve their full sentence. We also want to increase the possibility of postponing or forfeiting parole when an inmate does not participate in relapse prevention or misbehaves in other ways. The Parliament has on four occasions voted for announcements to tighten parole. Despite this, the government has still not presented any legislative proposal in this direction. Of course, the best crime is the crime that is never committed. The fact that crime prevention work is carried out by both the law enforcement authorities and the municipalities of the country is therefore of the utmost importance. But, Madam President, anyone who chooses the course of crime and in many cases destroys the lives of innocent people should know that the person who commits crime faces clear consequences.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-254	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on Prisons. Of course, I support all our reservations in this committee report, but we have a reservation on prisons in other countries, reservation 24, to which I call for approval. An effective chain of law requires not only additional resources for the police, prosecutors and courts, but also for the prison services. More places in institutions must be created, and it costs money, of course. In Sweden the Swedish Democrats have to keep criminals in prison as long as the crime they committed deserves. This will, of course, lead to more individuals becoming acquainted with the prison system and also serving longer prison sentences than today. Correctional services have been a neglected area for many years. I am pleased that more parties are now beginning to talk about the need to invest in the whole chain of justice. All opposition parties are now investing more money in the police. Although the Swedish Democrats still stand out as the party that invests most with a fairly large margin, this shift in Swedish politics is welcome. This also applies to the Prison Service and the rest of the legal chain. Step by step, parties subscribe to Swedish-democratic politics. Step by step, more and more people realise that it is not enough just to say so; it is also necessary to budget for it. Every step we take forward in this area is essential, because without a well-functioning chain of law, from the Police Authority to the Prison Service, the rule of law – the rule of law whose responsibility is to uphold law and order – lapses. Today we have an overcrowding in our institutions. The coating is up to and sometimes over 100%, which is unacceptable. We have no seats for all those who are to be punished. The prison service itself warns against carrying out the necessary penalties because they do not receive enough money to ensure that there are enough places in prison. Overcrowding not only creates unreasonable working conditions for those working in criminal services, but also impairs the conditions that we are expected to give those in our institutions to be reintegrated into better citizens. The problem is two-edged. Rehabilitation is deteriorating for the inmates, and victims of crime are not given redress as those who are to be inmates do not sufficiently serve sentenced sentences. The Swedish Democrats are by far the party that invests most in the prison services. In our budget proposal for 2020, we allocated SEK 1.9 billion more than the government. This is to be compared with the other opposition parties, which allocated between 20 and 150 million more to the Prison Service's budget. For those who are serious about punitive measures, it should be self-evident to strengthen the Prison Service's budget in parity with the police's budget increases. There is a lesson to be learned for several parties when it comes to seeing the whole of the legal chain. You can't just invest more money in Swedish police and then hope that everything will work out in the end. Several of our activities in this area are dealt with in a simplified way. For those who follow the debate on television, this means that we have debated the issues in the past and that there is therefore no in-depth examination of these motions in the report we are debating today. In these motions, for example, we have proposed stricter rules on leave, anklets on release after serious crimes in order to prevent recurrence of crime and criminalisation of prison escape. Yeah, you heard me right. Today, it is not illegal to run away from an institution. It is therefore very gratifying that the committee is now making an announcement to the government to criminalise escapes. We have also made demands for increased camera surveillance in the institutions. We believe that, if necessary, camera monitoring should also be possible in cells in class l and 2 institutions. In addition, we have proposed a simpler prison standard for the people to be expelled. Tax money should not be wasted in these cases. Although these proposals are not dealt with in greater depth, we maintain our view. In Sweden, a prison sentence is supposed to be a punishment. It is basically a question of justice in relation to the victim, a remedy to the victim. For too long there has been unilateral talk of care rather than punishment, and for too long criminal policy has been characterised by swinging doors. Anyone sentenced to punishment should feel a marked difference from the life of freedom that otherwise applies. Prison time shall be characterised by discipline and strict rules of conduct. The correctional services should ensure that the person who has served his or her sentence k o mmer out like a better person, and it must take the time it takes. It is also our firm belief that the release of two thirds needs to be abolished. It is not reasonable for a person sentenced to ten years' imprisonment, for example, to be less than seven years old. Where is the victim perspective in this? Some parties propose that parole should take place after three quarters of the time instead of two thirds. It is a marginal change in the current system. For a ten-year sentence, this means an extension of the sentence by eleven months, but the sentence is still two and a half years shorter than the sentence. If these parties were really serious about their rhetoric about the victim perspective, they would have joined our view. According to the National Crime Prevention Council's statistics, we collect approximately 3 000 foreign citizens annually in our prisons. That's over a third of everyone who goes in every year. From the Swedish side, we need to be better at ensuring that other countries take responsibility for their own citizens and enforce the penalties imposed in Sweden. There is a well-designed system in Europe for the recognition and enforcement of prison sentences. Foreign citizens who belong to another EU country and who commit crimes in Sweden must, according to these rules, serve the sentences in their own home countries. In reality, however, this is all too rarely done. The government is now moving forward on another matter of simplification, but, as we have said on the matter, this is too little and too tame to face the reality we are facing today. We must take this matter seriously and ensure that EU countries and other non-EU countries receive their citizens and ensure that they are allowed to serve the sentences in their own home countries. If, for various reasons, it is not possible to impose a penalty in a particular country, for example for reasons relating to human rights or because prisons are of too poor a standard, it is of course better to procure agreements individually with the country in question or with a neighbouring country, so that the person concerned may serve the sentence in that country. A further advantage of serving your sentence in the country of which you are a citizen, and to which you are still to be expelled, is that rehabilitation conditions are adapted to that country. Today we have the EU's highest cost per day and admitted to Swedish prisons. It is not defensible that foreigners who come to Sweden and commit crimes in Sweden may sit in Swedish institutions at exorbitant costs. The rehabilitation offers available in Swedish institutions should be offered to those who are to return to Swedish society and not to those who are to be expelled. These people should primarily be punished in their respective countries of origin.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-275	Madam President, I would like Breaking a criminal path has a very great value, measured by human suffering, of course, and victims who do not have to become victims, but there is also a great value in money. Relapse prevention has developed in recent years in a way that inspires confidence. It is based on a solid scientific basis and works well if the inmates are motivated. The challenge is to get more motivated. I have visited prisons and, frankly, am impressed by the level of work. Safety is very high, the business is usually well run and the staff gives a very competent impression. However, there is a very concrete and practical threat to the operation and the recurrence prevention that I would like to raise here today. Some of the prisons are severely derelict with major renovation needs, and in addition, the prisons are currently fully occupied, which several have been involved in their speeches. Many penalties have been tightened up, and surely also the resource reinforcements that a united parliament has made sure that the police have played a role in putting criminals behind bars. It should also be said that the police are starting to get their business together after a rather messy reorganization. I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to one of the major shortcomings of the judicial leadership. A few weeks ago I visited Tidaholmsanstalten. It faces a major reconstruction and extension to become a modern, safe and efficient facility that can carry out its relapse prevention work in the best possible way. It is urgently necessary to increase the number of prisons in Sweden, something that could happen through, among other things, the expansion of the Tidaholmsanstalt. The plans are ready, and all necessary permits are in place. But the construction won't get started. To be honest, Madam President, the reason is rather stupid. An unsolved rental dispute between state-owned Special Properties and the state authority Prison Service has stopped the project. This is happening at the same time as prisons are overcrowded and more are expected to serve even longer prison sentences in Sweden. If you run a hotel you probably dream in these troubled times back to the days when you were full. But if you run a prison, you definitely don't want to be full, because then you can't move inmates who need to be moved on. I think everyone involved is holding their breath in a prayer or desire that the corona infection should not enter any of our Swedish institutions. In fact, the responsible minister should also hold his breath in the face of this. I asked the Minister for Justice a written question about what I was told when I was at Tidaholmsanstalt, but I received a non-answer: that it is expected to work out. But there is no waiting for it to work itself out, for obviously it does not. Here the government must show leadership and ensure that this unnecessary conflict is resolved. We have more problems to worry about than such a bad reason for stopping the necessary expansion.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-282	Madam President, I would like Correctional services are currently in a strange situation. While the agency is working intensively with CBT treatments and to break the vicious circle and fill the time in prison with good content and demand opportunities for several different kinds of punishments, political parties shout for more and longer punishment without caring about the real effects of the punishment. There is no evidence that long sentences actually lead to less crime. However, if we really want to overcome crime and relapse into crime, far fewer people should be locked up in prison. And many, many more, should have their punishment free with an electronic anklet. Having your punishment out in the community is incredibly much tougher than being locked up. Then you have to face your familiar behavior patterns and old friends who do nonsense, and you have to be sober and drug-free yourself. However, since it is only longer sentences that have been imposed in recent years, the result has been that the prisons are overfilled. Today, the situation of the prison services is very strained by overcrowded institutions and detention centres. This results, among other things, in the fact that the environment for the inmates becomes messier with a greater risk of conflict and violence. This also affects the staff, who have a reduced working environment. But there is a simple and inexpensive solution to reduce crime in society and reduce the consultation of prisons, and that is to allow those who have a sentence period of one year to have their punishment in freedom. It is those who have short prison sentences, for one year, who mostly relapse into crime. This shows that the lock-in penalty is a very bad tool. The Left Party believes that the number of short sentences imposed in prison should be reduced and that the use of intensive monitoring with electronic control, i.e. the anklet, should be extended. As a general rule, prison sentences of up to one year should be carried out by electronic anklet. Madam President, I would like It is a waste of tax revenue that the government refuses to investigate the possibility of more alternatives to punishment. There are enormous opportunities here to change the structure of the entire prison service and actually follow what research and experience say. Instead, the government is putting forward proposals that will lead to increased crime by locking young people in for a longer period of time. This is a guarantee that young people who enter crime at an early age come out after a long sentence as adult lifestyle crises. The problems of the prison services need to be addressed both for the benefit of the inmates and for the benefit of the employees. It is not reasonable for the current situation to escalate further. The Government therefore urgently needs to set up a group of experts to develop a strategy for the Prison Service both in the short and long term and a plan for the renovation of buildings and better adapted departments. Treatment programmes and study opportunities must be developed. Today, there is no treatment for people who have committed an honor-related crime or oppression. This should be self-evident, for it is very serious crime. There is also no possibility of a good educational environment in all institutions, and the possibility of studying is very different depending on the institution. It should be a socio-economic matter of course that people in prison have the opportunity to study at all levels, from primary school to secondary school and college, so that they can end the criminal circle and come out on the other side with an education. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of reservation 26.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-291	Madam President, I would like A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. This is important in order to protect law-abiding, restore victims and maintain a signal system about what is right and what is wrong, but also in order to enable the offender to pay for his crime. Punishment is therefore a necessary element in the administration of justice. The time when the sentence is served shall be used in a meaningful way by means of actions that enable a life without crime. Treatment against alcohol and drug abuse, education and work training should be provided. Anstaltes must be kept free of drugs, and release must be prepared in good time. In order to avoid relapses, the frivolous person should be helped to obtain housing, work or other useful employment. It is also important for the social network to be strengthened. Investing in criminal services should be seen as a way of reducing crime in the future. However, Madam President, the prison service is currently under great strain and makes the assessment that it will require at least 6 300 places of detention and 3 200 places of detention by 2029. In addition, it is expected that at least 500 sites will be lost during the same period due to renovation needs. The Christian Democrats share that assessment. The Christian Democrats have contributed to the Riksdag's announcement that a number of penalties should be tightened up. This will put additional strain on the prison system, which needs a budgetary framework that will cope with a future increase in client inflow. When prisons are overcrowded, the environment there is deteriorating, both for the inmates and for the prison staff. That's not how the correctional system works. A good environment is a prerequisite for rehabilitation of the inmates. The Christian Democrats also want to see the prison services develop their international cooperation. We believe that foreigners convicted of crimes in Sweden should, as a rule, serve their sentence in their home countries. Sweden should therefore give priority to signing agreements with other countries that meet this objective. It is necessary to relieve the prison service, both in terms of capacity and cost, in order to facilitate expulsion and because the criminals of other countries are not the responsibility of Sweden. The possibility of renting places abroad should also be examined to a greater extent in order to relieve the burden on the prison system. Madam President, I would like Drugs are a major problem in the prison system. It is important that all institutions are free of drugs and that staff are given the resources and means to monitor compliance with drug freedom. There should be zero tolerance of drug use, and prisoners should be encouraged to follow drug cessation programmes. The Swedish government has also commissioned the Prison Service to map methods and ways of working to prevent the work against violent extremism among prisoners in Swedish prisons. We believe that the work is urgent and want to intensify efforts to combat radicalisation and recruitment in Swedish prisons. Madam President, I would like Too many people relapse into crime after they have served their sentence. This requires reinforcements to reduce the number of relapses. It is important to work preventively in prisons. Wales has managed to reverse the trend through a family method that works to find the driving force in parenthood of the inmate. By working with an increased family focus within the prison care system in Sweden, big gains can be made for the individual inmate, for the children of this person and in the crime prevention work and for the national economy as a whole. The KD-M budget increased funding to the Prison Service and included a mission to the agency to create a special unit for young gang members. Such a unit would need to develop and further develop relapse prevention and drop-off activities. It is also extremely important that the support of society continues even after the sentence has been served. The frivolous person needs help with housing, work, education and other reintegration measures in order to maximise the opportunity to live a life without crime. When a person is released without decent employment, without housing and without social networks, he is once again driven right into the arms of the criminal circles. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that NGOs should have a natural place in the reintegration of the sentenced, both before and after their release. Civil society already has a major role to play in supporting the reintegration of formerly convicted persons. Associations should be encouraged to be present as part of life before and after release. We cannot assume that civil society will be set up automatically unless the economic conditions exist. Deduction rights for gifts were reintroduced into the KD-M budget and are an important step in supporting civil society financially. The Christian Democrats also want to give compensation to NGOs in relation to how well they are able to reintegrate previously convicted people. On the basis of this reasoning, I support reservation 4. Over the past ten years, about 100 crimes a year have been time-barred because people who have been convicted have completely ignored appearing in prison to serve their sentence. The Christian Democrats believe that a series of measures must be implemented to get rid of this. On the one hand, the limitation period should be removed for sentences imposed, since the debt issue is already settled in contrast to what applies to offences without judgment. On the one hand, those who do not appear should have much more difficulty in obtaining parole, the automatic way in which we want to abolish it. If you don't behave in prison, you shouldn't be on parole. The same should apply if you do not report. For people at high risk of digression, the anklet should be an alternative pending them. An escape ban should also be introduced. Nor should punishment be allowed to fail to appear. A decision in this direction is the majority decision that we have in committee on a declaration on the criminalisation of escapes. That, of course, supports us Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like The prison services are doing a good job today in many parts. But with further changes, including those I have mentioned, the business can be further developed and improved. It is about those who have crossed the law to take their punishment for atoning for their crime but also rehabilitated by the stay within the prison service to get a chance to return to society as a responsible person.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-305	Madam President, I would like This is about breaking the vicious circle and making sure that people who come into Swedish penitentiary hopefully come out as better people than they were when they came in. There are plenty of other measures we take in the area of justice to ensure that people interrupt their criminal thoughts early, that we have detection risks, that we have courts that work and that we have a prosecution service that can really ensure that people get proper punishment. I would say that the most urgent aspect of this issue is the lack of space. We have a very crowded situation, which has also been reinforced by the covid-19 infection and the fact that visitors are no longer allowed to visit the institutions. Double coatings make it very crowded. We already knew before the covid ‐ 19 infection that our 4,300 places will soon have to be 5,700 regular places in prisons. The Liberals' appeal to the government – Liberals cooperate with the government within the framework of the January agreement, and that is why we see a grant for Swedish prisons today that has never been higher – is that we start with the expansion of new prisons. In practice, new places are needed at Tidaholm, Hall, Skogome, Skenäs, Rödjan, Sörbyn and Sagsjön, which is a women's institution. All these need to be completely renovated so that in practice there will be new institutions. In addition, at least two new institutions in southern Sweden are needed in the near future. This must be started now. There's nothing to blame. The government must come back with a statement that we will launch the cement mixers to build these new modern prisons that Swedish prisons so badly need. What we have been doing in prison for the past 20 years is a remarkable change that has been based on the principle that it should be easy to do right and difficult to do wrong. One can say that there are as many hobby criminals as there are hobby epidemiologists these days who have sly thoughts about how to do, ranging from tearing down all prisons to locking people up and throwing away the key. In between, many thoughts and theses are driven. We have gone from that Swedish penitentiary 20 to 25 years ago was very empty, when you were lying in the cell and smoked a whole day if you wanted to. Today you can't be in the cell, and you can't smoke. It is good both for work ethic and for public health, and hopefully smoking is stopped inside the prison. Physical safety has also been developed. It was too easy to physically escape from prisons. But while shell protection has been strengthened, there has also been a great deal of investment in the dynamic security of Swedish penitentiary with an intelligence activity that today helps throughout law enforcement, among other things to ensure that the individual can come out better. However, everything possible is also being done to prevent the continuation of crime from inside the prison or from interacting in other ways with criminals outside. It should be easy to do right and difficult to do wrong. An important part of this is the obligation to work, which has been strengthened and the difficulty of being able to collect cash from outside. A person sentenced to prison must work, be treated or trained in order to get a few crowns to act for inside the institution. That's right. You shouldn't just be able to feed money from outside, which might come from a crime change, and not participate in the business. Liberals would like to see the anklet used even more. This is mentioned in the report. We have had the view that it must be criminal to escape. It's bizarre that it's allowed to help escape. But the actual escape itself is something as criminal as going against red man. It's inappropriate, but it means absolutely zero punishment. This is totally untenable. We believe that the drop-off programmes must be strengthened. There the government is on its way, and we look forward to this. These people must be supported. This applies partly to defector programs for which the state is responsible, and partly to the activities of non-profit associations and organisations that try to help the most vulnerable, who usually end up in prison. They'll get help to do the right thing and get better out. The issue of serving time in the home country has been up here. For the Liberals, that's for granted. We have a Europe for it to work. Swedish people who commit crimes in other EU countries should soon return to the Swedish institution and begin serving the sentence and their own rehabilitation. The same applies to all people from Romania, Bulgaria or any country. Then it is offensive that today we have a situation in which people cannot be extradited and served sentences in these countries because prisons are too bad. The people who come here from, let us say, Romania would have thought about it a little earlier – if I put it mildly. You actually get to go back to your country, and then it's their problem whether it's stomped earth floor or not. We in Sweden can also use our resources in our work with Romania to build sensible and good institutions to facilitate the service of sentences in this country and with a better chance of rehabilitation, which has been brought forward. Madam President, I would like Liberals claim for time winning approval only to reservation 21, but we support all our reservations. I would just like to remind those hobby criminologists who still believe that there is money to save on cheaper penitentiaries to think about this: if you think it is expensive today, all the research shows that cheaper penitentiary care leads to increased costs. This is about helping people break a very vicious circle and ultimately about increasing security and reducing crime in society outside the walls.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-319	Madam President, I would like If you suspect that some woman is getting hurt and subjected to domestic violence – now is the time to act and sound the alarm. Call the police if you think someone's getting hurt! Now many women are trapped in the home with their perpetrators and subjected to violence, and we all have a responsibility to act. Women's shelters are now sounding the alarm that domestic violence against women and children is increasing in the traces of the Corona virus. Women and children living in a violent relationship are now trapped in the home; they are trapped with the striker. The usual possibilities for breathing space are now disappearing in the traces of the Corona virus and subsequent measures as society now shuts down gradually. The elderly and the sick are at risk for the coronavirus. But also violent women and children suffer as a result of society's measures to stop the spread. In China, the United States and large parts of Europe, women's organisations are now witnessing an increase in violence in close relationships. Stopping the spread of the disease and the spread of the virus must be a top priority, but we must not forget the women and children who are suffering in the meantime. In times of crisis, we must all stick together. The work of our women's shelters is always important, but especially now. The state must increase the funding for our women's shelters in order to improve the possibilities of protecting those women who are now at risk of harm. Madam President, I would like I shall now turn to the subject of today's sitting. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries – this is due to the fact that women's labour force participation in Sweden is one of the world's highest. It's important, because the road to a more equal society goes through the job. With a job will not only colleagues, the opportunity to wish someone a nice weekend or to get a vacation. It is also about own income, a salary, and with it the possibility of self-determination and power over their own lives. Women in Sweden have a high employment rate. But we are also on parental leave, we care for sick children and we work part-time to a greater extent than men. For those of us who are concerned about women having the same wage development, career prospects and, in the long run, pension as men, it is therefore important to consider how we can find reforms to increase women's hours worked and to what extent women participate in the labour market. Madam President, I would like Swedish parental insurance has served us well. Women have come to work early, had the opportunity to earn their own money and thus gained increased control and power over their own lives. But our current parental insurance and its design came about in a different time, and we think it is now high time that it was modernised and adapted to today's situation. In this situation, to propose to increase the number of days off by a family week is the wrong way to go. Paying people not to work, at a time when we need more people to work and pay taxes to our community, is not just a waste; it is a women's trap. Madam President, I would like For those who have not entered the Swedish labour market, it is crucial that it is easy to leave children in preschool and that the driving forces to seek work are strong and clear. In order to strengthen the work line for those who have never got their first job, not least foreign-born women, we believe that a change needs to be made between parental allowance and extended preschool. Generous preschools and shorter time with parental allowance provide driving forces to seek work. We believe that parental benefit for those who have not worked in Sweden should be limited to one year. In order to further strengthen the work line, the Moderates also propose that we introduce SFIs for parental leave women. In this way we strengthen the work line earlier. In the long run, this benefits not least those children whose parents go to work. With this, I would like to support paragraph 1 under reservation 1 and thank you for the floor.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-331	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report on family economic policy. I would like to begin by calling for our Amendment No 7, but we naturally support all our reservations. Madam President, I would like The family is the most important and fundamental community in society. It lays the whole foundation for the children's upbringing and their well-being, or it may put them in a vulnerable situation. Strong and safe families are therefore a prerequisite for harmonious social conditions. Our starting point is to create equal conditions for economic security but also for freedom of choice and flexibility so that each family can then get their own life puzzle together. The starting point is, of course, that the best interests of the child should always be taken into account in all situations involving children. Of course, it is also important, especially now in this crisis, that we can create as safe a life for families as possible. Madam President, I would like We want to create the best possible conditions for both parents and children early on. We therefore want to make it easier for both the mother and the child at the end of the pregnancy by introducing ten days of pregnancy allowance for all pregnant women who want and need to unwind the last time before giving birth, regardless of whether they have trouble or not. These days should be available on request during the last month of pregnancy. There's already a pregnancy allowance. Today, some pregnant women are receiving this allowance, perhaps because it is difficult in the workplace or the health condition of their mother is difficult, while others are allowed to opt out of their parenting days prematurely. Decisions may be perceived as arbitrary and differ across the country. We believe that everyone should have an opportunity to reduce the stress and stress of childbirth. Research seems to show that stress can be harmful to the child, and it can risk causing complications during childbirth or even premature birth. It is therefore positive that the Christian Democrats too have similar proposals on this. But it is a mystery to me why more parties do not support this right, and it is a mystery why it has not been introduced before. In a future conservative government, I see this as a self-evident woman-friendly reform. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats also want to achieve a fully flexible parental insurance to protect families' freedom of choice so that they can make their life puzzle work, unlike the Social Democrats who want to enter the families' living room and dictate their life puzzle. They have now also pushed for the EU and Brussels to be able to decide on our family policy and the distribution of parental days. First of all, it should be at the national level. As I see it, it should be at the family level in this case to decide on it. We also want to increase flexibility by examining the possibility of transferring days to grandparents. Shared parental responsibility is, of course, important. However, quota days are not based on the interests of the family and, in particular, on the interests of the child, but make it more difficult and more limited to the everyday lives of families. We see that it goes wrong n are days lapse because parents for various reasons cannot take their days out. This applies, for example, to self-employed workers or to family situations where there may be a dispute and one parent does not want to take advantage of his or her days. This affects the child in particular. Say what you want about the government, but surely the meaning cannot be to limit and make it difficult for the country's families with children. I think the government stared blindly at achieving a fine statistic and forgotten the compass on the way. Madam President, I would like Of course, I and the Swedish Democrats would like to emphasise and emphasise that it is important to share parental responsibility during the childhood of children, where responsibility for everyday puzzles and all that entails is shared. We live in a modern age, and that's how it should be. But the government's rhetoric paints a picture that it would be hostile to women and a trap for women to invest in time with their own children. I believe that it is more stressful for our mothers and fathers to return to work sooner than might be the best of the child to fit into the model that is being painted and expected. Why should time with children during childhood years be devalued by the government? I don't understand that. Instead, the starting point should be to create the conditions for parental leave to have as little negative financial consequences as possible in order to encourage time with children, whether you are a mother or a father, rather than achieving something with coercion. We see, of course, that long periods of parental leave or part-time work can have financial consequences. Instead, we should look at a system that strengthens pensions and contributes to gender equality, regardless of who uses parenting days. I mean that contributes to both freedom of choice and equality in real life. A further way to increase the financial security of families with children is that the sickness benefit-based income should be protected longer than the current unreasonable limit, where the maximum duration is one year and nine months before the child has a sibling or the parent returns to work. Of course, this period should be extended to three years. Madam President, I would like Our basic attitude is that the well-being of families with children is important and investing resources in good conditions for a safe start for children and reducing stress for parents is something that pays off in the long run. I think the picture painted by the government that time with the children is a dangerous trap one should watch out for is not shared by the majority of parents of young children in Sweden, but it is seen as well-invested time where everything is not measured in money. Then, of course, we politicians will create the best possible financial conditions for time with children where both parents and grandparents can help each other and distribute time in the way that suits each family best.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-345	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3. Of course, I also support our other reservations in the report. Swedish social insurance has a basic purpose. It is about creating security and good conditions for people who are not in work for various reasons. The purpose of economic family policy is to smooth the income gap between families with children and those who do not have children in different ways. It is also about being able to give children good care at the beginning of the child's life. I will deal with three areas: housing allowance, parental insurance and maintenance support. When it comes to parental insurance, it is an opportunity for parents to be at home with their child. Some adjustments have been made in this area in recent years for the better. It is about us concentrating more on parental insurance for the early childhood years. You can also share days with a common-law spouse in an easier way. However, further improvements are needed in order to obtain parental insurance that meets the various family constellations that currently exist. It is a question of being able to share parenting days with additional adults. Today we have families where there are many social parents around the child. They too need to have an opportunity to be at home with their child. I also want us to look at the gender equality bonus that has existed before and adjust it so that it hits right so that we get a larger split out between parents. We also need to look at introducing some kind of vab bonus so that parents share more at home with their children in the event of temporary illness. Madam President, I would like Opportunities for entrepreneurs also need to be reviewed. They must also be able to carry out a certain activity while on parental leave. Today, many of these companies are being stopped. It's not good for either the child or its parents. We have made adjustments in recent years. We have a certain difference for those who come to Sweden when it comes to how much of parental insurance you can get. We need to look at it again and see how we can qualify into our welfare systems. It is with the aim of getting more people to work earlier. It's good for the whole family. As far as housing allowance is concerned, it is also of course intended to reallocate the costs so that all families have the opportunity to have a good place to live. It doesn't work great in all situations. There are parts to work with there. What I am focusing on in this report is when parents choose not to live together and choose to separate in some form. Today there is a rule that it is not the same type of housing allowance if the child lives less than 12 days with one. This is something that counteracts alternate housing that is very important for children with separated parents. This means, in practice, that we can create an unnecessary conflict between separated parents for economic reasons. It may be important to have the child with him or her for 12 days and not 10 days a month, as it is important from the point of view of receiving the housing allowance. This creates unnecessary conflicts. The child still needs good accommodation regardless of how many days it lives with one parent or another. That is something that I think the government should really look further at. There is another part of the housing allowance that the government must also take care of. There is a report to be presented in March 2021. It's very far away. However, I very much hope that this study will take care of the monthly reconciliation of housing allowances so that we do not end up in the situation that families with children and many single parents choose not to apply for housing allowance. There is a risk that they may be able to repay the housing allowance because it is currently based on annual income. If you get a higher income at the end of the year, you may not be entitled to your housing allowance and suddenly become liable for repayment. It's not okay. There are solutions. I very much hope that proposals will come soon. In the same investigation, there is another part that will be presented that is part of the area of maintenance support and maintenance. I think it's great that we deal in civil matters with what support one parent should pay to the other when people have chosen not to live together. However, in cases where it is not possible to regulate this in civil matters, the Social Insurance Agency will go in and support it for a period of six months. After six months, the involvement of Försäkringskassan disappears, and the person who is the weaker party to the relationship – who is exposed to threats and violence or economic power – ends up in a situation where it is constantly back and forth: Will the Försäkringskassan remain or not? I really think that the government should look at whether this can be done in any other way. It is not a question of removing civil liability, but we should look at how we deal with the six-month rule. Is it the case that people should choose not to remain instead of the Social Insurance Fund withdrawing, so that it is the individual individuals who are allowed to do this?
i-3k5V9gXRkk2YYzVhXAbog1	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 5 in paragraph 1. Madam President, I would like If you believe in freedom and want people to be free to shape their lives as they want – to live as they want – you have to have equality. Then you have to see the children's perspective, and you have to be sure to keep up with the times when society develops. Freedom and freedom seem different at different times, and to bring about more freedom, to create more choices for people, to ensure that children have a good upbringing that allows them to take on a free world in a good way when they grow up and to create equality, you simply have to have an updated policy. Families with children can look in many different ways. Families must have the opportunity to combine work and parenthood. We in the Liberals want to see parental insurance that increases equality, gives more freedom of choice and encourages work. A central part of this is that there should be an expanded and publicly funded preschool that allows parents to combine work and parenthood during childhood. Another cornerstone of this is the right to paid parental leave, i.e. parental insurance – of course together with the legislation on parental insurance. We believe that family law must be extended and modernised precisely because families can look different. Madam President, I would like Liberals were the party that introduced the first earmarked month of parental insurance in 1994, the so-called father's month. We have always been a party that has pushed for more equality, and we were involved in pushing through also the second and third earmarked month. These have been very important parts of the gender equality work. But, Madam President, times are changing. It is not that we will not continue to be in favour of gender equality; on the contrary, we will continue to be at the forefront. But if you went out to club in Stockholm in 1994, when we introduced the first earmarked month, you might hear Rednex new hit Cotton Eye Joe. Maybe they took a cocktail whose name alluded to sex. In 1994 Justin Bieber was also born. It's been a long time. Now there are hardly any Beliebers left, and no matter how many Sex on the beach you have ingested, the Rednex song hardly sounds very good. That's the way it is: the world has changed. The world and society change, we move forward and become more equal and we see a progression in how families are formed. Freedom for people is increasing, and then politics must keep up. We cannot have any Cotton Eye Joe policy, any Sex on the beach policy or any Justin Bieber policy anymore; it is simply outdated. Instead, we need to modernise parental insurance. We want to see a major overhaul of the whole system, and it needs to be done now. We in the Liberals want to introduce a system where the family can choose either a shorter parental insurance with full income protection, up to the ceiling, or a slightly longer insurance with lower remuneration. Such a system exists in Norway, so it is tried in a neighbouring country that works broadly like Sweden. This has led to an increase in gender equality. More women have gone back to work before and have been a larger part of the labour market, received better pensions and had better career opportunities. Many of the gender issues that exist with today's design of parental insurance have been addressed. Madam President, I would like Children's perspective must be guiding. Parental insurance should, of course, provide income protection for parents in the early stages, and parental insurance should continue to stimulate equality of parenthood. It should also be flexible, so that we increase choices for people. Then we can actually have more choice and more freedom for families to shape their own parenthood and at the same time get more equality. We'll hit two birds with one stone. Based on these starting points and inspired by the Norwegian system, where parents can choose between receiving 100 per cent of their salary over 49 weeks or 80 per cent of their salary over 59 weeks, a new model for parental insurance should be evaluated. According to it, parents should be able to choose between shorter insurance with higher remuneration and longer insurance with lower remuneration. Most of the parental allowance days must be available until the child reaches the age of two. Furthermore, the 90 minimum days should be abolished and the ceiling of the temporary parental allowance increased to 10 prism amounts. Parental insurance should also be better adapted to parents who are self-employed. As everyone hears, it is a popular party that stands h is and speaks, Madam President; it is a rather well thought-out proposal with a lot of detail. Parental insurance is for the best interests of the child. All children have the right to have a safe connection with their parents early in life. Therefore, most days of parental insurance should be taken out during the first two years, while the rest can be used until the child starts school.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-368	Madam President, I would like The House is now dealing with the motion report on family economic policy. It is a policy area in which we normally find great contradictions between our parties, but under the current circumstances – under the coronapndemin – the debate is not fully charged. On the contrary, I would like to start by highlighting the measures taken by the government in this area, in broad agreement. This applies to the removal of sickness certificates when a child has been ill for more than 7 days, and it concerns the preparations for the possibility of care for sick children that are going on in case we end up in a situation where we are forced to close schools. Then I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision and then devote a few minutes to presenting the views of the Social Democrats on family policy. The general family policy with extended childcare, generous parental insurance and general child benefit has served Sweden well and increased equality. It has contributed to the fact that women in particular, but also men, do not have to choose between children and employment. We have managed to get a stool seat in Europe when it comes to childbirth, while at the same time we are at the top of the list of women's participation in the labour market. It has stimulated both higher growth and more gender equality. In Sweden, there are just over 2 million children affected in one way or another by economic family policy. For us social democrats, it aims to create the conditions for providing all children with good growing-up conditions, regardless of their parents. Although Sweden is one of the world's best countries to grow up in, too many children are forced to grow up with a lump in their stomachs. It is children who constantly have a concern that an economic disaster lurks around the corner, who learn that fruit is extra luxurious and who know that they will not be able to go if the classmate has partyed because the money is not enough for a gift. For children living in financial vulnerability, our security systems can play a crucial role. It was therefore a good thing that, for example, the government raised maintenance allowance, the income limit of housing allowance and the basic level of parental allowance during the previous term of office. Just as welcome is the fact that several of those parts are being further investigated during this term of office. The general child benefit also makes a difference for families with children – not only but perhaps especially for those with the lowest incomes. Many are the experts and the investigations that have pointed to the child benefit's ability to reduce gaps and create good conditions for all children. Therefore, it was both well-needed and well-motivated to increase child benefit in 2018 that had not been increased in twelve years. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about how family policy works as a promoter of equality. There is strong evidence that an equal take-out of parental insurance is the single most important reform in order to achieve an equal society – not as in a magic act but as an engine that leads us there. Many couples live fairly equally before they have children, but in connection with family formation the unequal structures are developed. Women take out 70% of parenting days and an even larger proportion on time. Even in families where women have a higher income than men, it is most common for women to take the most parental leave. So we know that it is not only pay that is crucial for distribution, but other factors and standards also play a part. After that, women continue to take the main responsibility for home and children when they return to work. This creates stress and duplication of work, which all too often results in sick leave or part-time work. At the same time, men are expected to continue working just as before we had children. Of course, this pattern also creates expectations of women with whom society and employers calculate, unconsciously or consciously, and it has consequences for pay, career and pension. It was based on this analysis that we reserved a third month of parental insurance for each parent. And that is why we Social Democrats really wanted to take more steps in that direction. As the previous speaker has said, welfare must keep up with changing times. We went to elections to introduce an extra week's leave, a family week, per year. We wanted to make it easier for parents who work through five days off were who they can take out when the children can't be in school because of permission, planning days and the like. In a first step, we agree with our cooperation parties that are behind the January agreement to start the reform with three days per parent. We intend to come back to this at another time. Madam President, I would like Right now, we're in a burning pandemic crisis. There are other things that are more important to focus on at the moment. Meanwhile, we follow the restrictions and keep our heads cold, our hearts warm and our hands clean.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-379	Madam President, I would like The different parts of economic family policy – parental allowance, temporary parental allowance, i.e. care of children, i.e. vab, child allowance and a lot of other things – have their roots many decades back. They have largely been added at a time when equality was not the norm. But at the same time they have been important in the gender equality work that has characterized Sweden for many decades. Family policy rests on the idea of the Swedish welfare state. It is an idea that has benefited Sweden for many decades. That heritage is to be nurtured, and we will make it so that today's family policy meets today's family constellations that can look a little different now than before and have a greater variety. What we need to do is, among other things, to create a more equal family policy in which men take greater responsibility and which provides incentives for women as a group to take further steps in the labour market. Of course, it is quite unreasonable that women earn less than men. Caring for children is an important key to dealing with this. We need to have an earlier withdrawal of parental leave so that more days are taken when the children are small but that the system is still flexible to use for children of a slightly higher age. Parental insurance should of course be based on the needs of the children. A child should be entitled to his or her parents — to all his or her parents, even if they are more than two. The Green Party therefore wants to see a three-part parental insurance scheme in which each parent receives one-third. The last third can be divided between the parents or other adults close to the child. We have a complete investigation in progress for a few years. It contains several good proposals, including the three-parting of parental insurance. Unfortunately, there is no support in Parliament for this, but the Green Party's line is clear: let us implement these proposals to meet today's family constellations and for a more equal society! In many families, more than two adults take parental responsibility. Therefore, the parental code should also be amended so that more than two adults who take parental responsibility can also be legally recognised as parents. Because families look in many different ways. We need parental insurance that meets that reality. We need flexibility in the insurance system. We need a gender-neutral parental code. That's how we get a family policy in time. Madam President, I would like Let me also say something about the child benefit. The general child benefit, which was introduced in 1948, is granted to everyone without a trial. And it has been and is very successful. There are a lot of proposals in the debate on restrictions and trials. All such limitations are bad. The child benefit is strong precisely through the general. The general, or general, child benefit has since its inception been a clear indication that society has a responsibility for children. It gives parents the opportunity to use the money as they see it best. There is no risk of stigma or negative foreclosure effects. The grant is cost-effective because it has very low administrative costs precisely because no needs testing is required. We're not gonna change that. With that, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-388	Madam President, I would like Family is society's most important community. Safe families are the basis for creating a secure society. For us Christian Democrats, the best starting point for children is all family policy issues. Each family with its own conditions is also unique. Family economic policies must therefore put people at the centre of their lives and not be based on what is best from a system perspective. In order to support all families, the policy must allow a great deal of flexibility and choice. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats assume that it is the parents themselves who at home at their kitchen table can better decide what is best for their family – not us politicians in the Swedish parliament. More than three out of four parents agree with us. We want a completely free parental insurance without quotas. It is important, among other things, because not all parents, such as those who run businesses, are able to take advantage of the days that cannot or may not be transferred to the other parent, however much they would like. Quotation therefore risks leading to parents having to leave their children for childcare earlier than they would have liked. We also want parental benefit days to be transferred to a family member who does not live in the same household, such as grandparents or an older sibling. Madam President, I would like We obviously support all our reservations in this report, but I would like to conclude by calling for our reservation 21 in paragraph 7. As of 1 January 2019, there are two new social security benefits: nursing allowance and additional expenses. They will gradually replace the former benefits called care allowance and disability benefit. Thanks to these benefits, a parent can reduce working hours to provide care and supervision to a child with disabilities or receive compensation for additional costs associated with this reduction. Unfortunately, the long processing times of the Social Insurance Agency in the transition to the new benefits have resulted in a long gap in payments, not infrequently ten to twelve months. Although the grant of a nursing allowance will be paid retroactively, the long processing times are very problematic. The families affected often have a difficult financial situation and lack the buffers needed to last a longer period without these benefits. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the government has recently tabled a proposal for legislative changes to prevent individuals who have previously been granted health care grants from being placed in a situation where, because of lengthy processing, they are not receiving compensation, even though they are actually entitled to it. It is unreasonable for individuals to be affected in this way by the Agency's long processing times. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that, in addition to this urgent amendment of the law, general guidelines and procedures need to be developed to ensure that an individual is not financially affected when grants change form. This applies regardless of whether it is because benefits change form, as in the case of the care allowance, or whether the individual needs to change benefits due to qualification rules, such as age.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-399	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate the Social Security Committee's SfU19 report on pensions. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation No 1. Madam President, I would like The situation of many pensioners in Sweden today is alarming, as is the situation of future pensioners. The entire pension system is underfunded and not adapted to current demographic developments. According to forecasts, an average 80-talist – perhaps I myself – who starts working at the age of 25 and retires at 67 years with a final salary of SEK 30 000 per month will receive an income pension of SEK 13 600. This represents just over 45 per cent of the final salary, which is far from the target of 80 per cent. As we have stated in previous debates, we believe that a proposal should be examined to switch between lower general wage contributions and higher pension provision in employers' contributions. In this way, without imposing higher taxes on entrepreneurs, people could receive a higher pension without increasing the general retirement age. We want such a solution to be investigated. We have also stated this in previous debates. In this way many years of work could pay off instead of punishing themselves. Madam President, I would like In 2018, nearly 700 000 older people over 65 years of age received some form of guarantee pension. And more than 300 000 pensioners today live below the poverty line. It can only be considered shameful and unworthy of a welfare country like Sweden. We have proposed strengthening the guarantee pension in addition to that of the government, but that proposal has been dealt with in a previous budget debate. Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats are strongly critical of the increased retirement age that the government has implemented. We believe that post-retirement work must be voluntary. It should not depend solely on economic factors. Of course, there is a logic in us being able to work further up the age line as the population grows older. However, this should be achieved by significantly greater flexibility and with targeted incentives rather than coercion. The Government's proposal misses the fact that there is not a common retirement age suitable for all individuals and all occupational groups. Those who are worn out as a result of a long and demanding working life should not be forced to stay in the labour market against their will. However, those who feel capable and want to continue their working life should be offered incentives to remain in the labour market, for example through the right to go down part-time and through the introduction of a special job tax credit for older people who voluntarily remain in the labour market. Madam President, I would like I would also like to express my criticism of the plans for a future fund square, as mentioned in the report. In November 2018, stricter requirements were introduced for the funds that exist in today's system. Those were good and reasonable demands. In a second step, in November 2019, an investigation proposal was submitted on the regulatory framework for a new, controlled and procured fund square for premium pensions as well as a regulation by a responsible authority. The work shall be finalised by 31 December 2020. This new proposal risks leading to less money in the wallet for future pensioners and drastically limited freedom of choice for pension savings. The future fund square will drastically decimate the supply of funds and, through its restructuring and governance, significantly affect the eligibility of funds. This leads, among other things, to larger global index funds being rewarded over smaller small corporate funds. Currently, approximately SEK 290 billion, almost 20 per cent of the premium pension capital, is invested in Swedish shares. This should be contrasted with the Government proposal where only 1 per cent is invested in Swedish shares. It is remarkable that the Swedish government has such low confidence in Swedish shares and companies. We will have reason to debate this issue further in the future. In the current situation where many small businesses are already hit hard, this reform would be devastating. The proposal for a future fund square has also received sharp criticism from a number of consultative bodies that wish to reject the proposal as a whole. I hope that we will have reason to come back to this so that it is not implemented in the way that is planned.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-409	Madam President, I would like We have in Sweden a robust pension system that will be nurtured and developed as time goes by. A pension scheme should not depend on which party governs in Sweden. That's why we have the so-called Pensions Group. Today it consists of six parties and is therefore independent of the majority in the Swedish parliament. Our pension system should be robust and credible for the future. Our pension system must be independent from and outside the treasury. I say this with emphasis, because we have now decided to make a change that increases the distance of respect between those who have worked a whole life and those who have not. That is why we have now proposed to increase the pension for those who have worked. But it is an exception, and it will be restored as soon as possible. At the beginning of the 1990s, we received our pension system. It's stable, and it's important. It's long-term, and it's A and O. It means it's work and life's income that will determine which pension we get. An exception to this is the so-called children's years, for which you get pension rights, and studies. So you should not lose by being at home and caring for children or by studying. It is important to pay attention to this with childhood years. This does not mean that it should be one in the family who takes the greatest responsibility and who, for many years, reduces working hours and thus receives a lower income from work. We in the Center Party want you to look at what and how you can do so that parents can better share the economy so that one of them doesn't lose. As I said, we have a principle of living income. This means being aware of the functioning of the pension system. There is no fixed retirement age. Instead, it is free to retire and stop working whenever you want. But you have to know what you get depending on when you end your working life. Therefore, we have established that a certain number of years allow the system to yield a reasonable return. So we can count on a certain income if we work for 40 years. If we work longer, we get a higher income. The retirement age has now been increased. The reason for this is that life expectancy has increased. For us to receive a reasonable pension, therefore, we also need to increase our working time. However, the pension system does not prohibit early retirement with lower pensions. Otherwise you can work longer and get a higher one. This is important. It is also important to know how the pension system works. The system is not underfunded. The money that our employers allocate from our salary to the pension system, as well as what we invest on our own in the premium pension or that we do not choose ourselves – what goes into our funds – means that we have a robust system that is not underfunded. It is a pension system that means that we will contribute to what amount it will be on the day we end, which is important. However, there is one exception to this in today's pension system that we in the Center Party want to change. Persons who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden as refugees or other persons in need of protection receive a guarantee pension, i.e. the pension that everyone who has not worked will receive. If you have lived in Sweden for 40 years – the current limit – you get a guarantee pension. However, if you belong to the group that has been granted a residence permit in Sweden as a refugee or a person in need of protection, you do not need to have lived in Sweden for 40 years, but it is enough that you came here when you were 60 years old and today you are 65 years old to receive a guarantee pension. We in the Center Party want to change this because it is unfair. We do not need a new pension system. We will manage what we have and adapt it to social developments. This is important. I would like to vote in favour of reservation 5 in paragraph 2.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-418	Madam President, I would like This debate is taking place at an exceptional time. The whole world has suffered a pandemic that affects all of us, but perhaps mainly the 70-pluser who has now had to change his whole life. You have to stay at home, don't get to meet friends and family, and you might get to spend more time through the screen. Some people may feel lonely and exposed when the spread of the disease means that we cannot hang out in the same room as we usually do. I myself know several people who have suffered this cruel disease. It's happening at a time when we need to stick together. Together, we can make it through the crisis. I hope that some of these 70-plusers will follow today's debate. We in the Left Party think that pensions are too low. The reason is that the Swedish pension system has major shortcomings. Although we work the longest in Europe, we have among the lowest pensions throughout the Union. In the mid-1990s, Sweden had about as many poor pensioners as the other Nordic countries. However, following the change in the pension system, we now have many more than the other countries. Swedish pensioners are thus doing worse than everyone else. We in the Left Party find this embarrassingly bad. Sweden does not have to be the worst. Far too little money is paid into the pension. Unlike in the previous system, we are currently not guaranteed a certain level of pension. On a number of occasions even the so-called brake has hit and lowered pensions. We believe that the whole thing should not work in this way. That's not how the unemployment fund works or the sickness benefit. The fact that pensions are always going to take the fall is an unfair and bad principle. Last year, Parliament decided to raise the retirement age. We voted against this. It's a bad decision. Many people today do not have the energy to work until retirement age. Instead, municipal and construction workers retire at the age of 62 to 63. This means that people like carpenters or tram drivers receive even lower pensions today. Where's the justice in that? It is possible that you can continue to work after 65 if you work in offices or in professions with very good working conditions and a lot of control over your schedule. This applies, for example, to all those who can now work without problems from home. But working life does not actually look that way to most people. On the contrary, minute management in home care and cuts and privatisations in the public sector have made working life much more stressful for nurses and child care workers, for example. Very long supply chains make the working environment of the buildings only worse today. Developments in this respect are hardly going in the right direction. We therefore find it rather strange if at the other end you reduce the possibility of receiving your pension after years of hard work in a heavy profession. Those who can work late in life but have not necessarily started working very early in life are rewarded in today's pension system. Those who, on the other hand, started working early but will not be able to cope until 65 are the big losers in today's pension systems, even though they may have worked as long. In addition, people such as sick leave and unemployment are unfairly hitting pension levels. Some sectors are currently more exposed to unemployment than others. Structural change in a modern society means that people will lose their jobs. Many hardworking, more physical professions are more vulnerable to sick leave. This, of course, lies on the employer to solve. However, since workplaces are not healthy enough, many people get sick leave. We do not think it is reasonable for the individual to be burdened so hard for things that are difficult to control for himself. That is why we do not think that unemployment and sick leave should affect pensions as much as they do today. Madam President, I would like Today, a municipal or industrial worker receives barely 50% of his salary in retirement. For those who are young today, the pension will be even lower. It must be clear to everyone that it is impossible to make a living on it. The Left Party believes that 80% of the final salary in retirement should be guaranteed. The pension system is currently underfunded. That is the main reason why pensions are so low. This is a much more important factor than retirement age. The Left Party wants payments to be increased to the pension system. It must be possible to live on pension after a full working life. The increases announced by the Pensions Group are too low and insufficient. Finally, for those who have missed the tip about a series that has been on SVT and you can also see on SVT Play. It's called the Allra store. It describes what is called the premium pension system and that Sweden is quite unique about having. This means that we are forcing people to place part of the public pension on the stock exchange. Of other countries, this system is called the Swedish experiment. In the documentary you can see how easy it is to put together a company, trick pension savers to transfer their savings to the company and then charge huge contributions from employees' money. In Allra's case, it was about 40% from the saver's future pensions. SEK 140 million of pension savers' money has been spent on the owners' expensive housing and extravagant lifestyle. Maybe someone thought this was illegal. But it is not. A few weeks ago, the owners of the Allra were completely acquitted of charges of stealing money from the premium pension system. It is therefore free for individual companies to take large amounts of employees' pension money from their current pension systems. It is called today by the Pensions Group for ordinary business. I, Madam President, call this stealing. In fact, it is quite unreasonable that this should continue. It risks making future pensioners very poor. After this judgment, the pension scheme should be suspended or restricted immediately. It just can't be done this way. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-431	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have a reservation, No 4, to which I shall begin by calling for approval. For any visit by an elderly relative or friend whom we must, for our part, refrain from in order to protect our elderly and fragile during this pandemic, we can, of course, make two or three calls. I've really tried to spend more time on the phone than ever before in my life, because involuntary loneliness is something that's not good. We know that it is as much a risk factor to die prematurely as smoking. We Christian Democrats have repeatedly highlighted this with involuntary loneliness. Now, during the pandemic, many more have become isolated. As a priest and parishioner, I know from my many visits out there among the older members of the congregation how important it is that we not only focus on economic policy; if we have the ambition to create a society in which our older people should feel safe and have a dignity, the other elements must be included in the equation. In the UK, an interesting ministerial post has been set up – towards loneliness. In Sweden, with the exception of our Christian-Democratic attempts to highlight this issue, it has been silent. But perhaps the question can be raised once we have made it through covid-19 and return to a more normal life. The crisis that we are currently working our way through shows that the links between us people are important. Anyone who lacks these tapes really gets isolated. That someone elseism, that is, our state individualism that we have practiced here in Sweden and where we have tried to separate ourselves from each other – I take responsibility for myself and someone else has to take responsibility for you – is the absolute best possible soil for involuntary loneliness. I want to see a Sweden where we understand that the task of stretching a helping and/ or welcoming hand is yours and mine, not someone else's. Some may object that politics cannot create relationships, fellowships, or humanity in order to counteract loneliness in this way. No, but politics plays a major role in the conditions. Of course, a first and crucial step in correcting the problem is to acknowledge that involuntary loneliness is a problem. Then I think there are a number of different things we can do in politics. Above all, I believe that we should support civil society. We are making a huge mistake if we believe that we can replace civil society with the public. It's civil society we meet. That's where we share values. That's where love, consideration and responsibility are born. That's where the faith of the future is created. That is why we Christian Democrats want to support associations, churches and communities that create visitor groups for contacts with our lonely elderly. We want all municipalities, as in Denmark, to be required to offer older people over 80 years of age a conversation where the elderly have the opportunity to tell about their situation. It also gives municipalities the chance to discover needs on time and inform them about what the municipality but also voluntary organisations can do. In our reservation, we show how we want to design a pension scheme that is more senior. We Christian Democrats have long been the driving force to create a better economy for our pensioners. Under the alliance government between 2006 and 2014, we were involved in reducing the tax on pensions five times. In addition, we raised the housing allowance for pensioners three times. We in the Pensions Group have recently decided on increased guarantee pension and raised the ceiling in the housing supplement. Together with the Moderates, we Christian Democrats phased out the special wage tax for the elderly, which was introduced by the government. It was an extra tax that you had to hire seniors who can and want to work for longer, such as nurses, nannys, craftsmen and so on. Our work towards a better pension system will continue untiringly. The Pensions Group must take responsibility for delivering a sustainable and long-term pension system. That is why I agree with what Mr Zander from the Center Party said about the pension allowance. We have taken a decision on this, but it is a parenthesis. It will later be removed. We will fund sustainable and good pensions within the pension system. They should not be part of the state budget. We should give priority to the situation of the elderly, and not only when it is time for the election movement.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-441	Madam President, I would like Today, many of us feel for the older people of the country. Because of the rise of the Corona virus, many parents and grandparents are now forced into isolation and sometimes even involuntary loneliness. I know it's stressful, but by following these recommendations, you're making an incredibly important effort. Today we are here, also out of concern for the country's pensioners, in connection with the motion report on pensions and the financial security of the elderly. I support the proposal in the report. The starting point is that you who have worked and worked and built the country Sweden to the amazing country it is should be able to retire and feel secure with a reasonable income. It is basically about justice and decency. That is why we Social Democrats went to elections to raise pensions. We are now implementing this in a number of ways. But we're not happy. Our goal is that the pension should in the long term correspond to 70% of the final salary, and we will not give up until we have implemented it. The improvements we have made so far have mainly been to increase the income of those with the lowest pension, for those who benefit from the tax-funded basic protection. Many times it is a case of single women who have taken great responsibility for unpaid domestic work and worked part-time. Only a few months ago, in accordance with the agreement of the Pensions Group, we increased the guarantee pension and the ceiling of the housing allowance for 675 000 pensioners. For many, this means well over $1,000 more in their wallet each month. Next year, a pension supplement will also be introduced for those who have worked for a full working life but still have a low pension – perhaps not so low that they receive a guarantee pension but just over. Many times there is little difference in income between a pensioner who has worked his whole life and one who has not. We Social Democrats refuse to accept poverty. At the same time, a long and tedious working life must pay off. It was necessary and important to increase the incomes of the most deprived pensioners. Working should also pay off. It's a question of justice. We protect the life-income principle of our pension system. The pension allowance was one of our most important electoral promises. We have just reached an agreement with several parliamentary parties to make this a reality in 2021. We do so by means of a targeted increase to pensioners who have built our country – to those who have worked in preschool, to nurses who have worked in health care and taken care of our loved ones, to bus drivers who have made sure that the communications have arrived in time and made everything work and to many others who have worked and fought day after day despite tough working conditions, part-time work and low wages, which are circumstances that affect pensions. For this particular group, which has built our country but has a relatively low income pension in the span between SEK 9 000 and SEK 17 000, the pension will be increased by up to SEK 600 per month through the targeted supplement. Increased basic protection and supplements for those who have worked for a full working life but still receive a low pension are important steps for us Social Democrats and on our agenda for raising pensions. Our goal is to increase pensions even further and to get 70% of the final salary. We want to increase contributions to pension systems. We see that this is a prerequisite for achieving a substantial increase in pensions. At the same time, working conditions must be improved in order for everyone to be able to work for a full working life. There must be more opportunities to change careers. We must not forget that pensions are a reflection of working life. Unfortunately, the pension system cannot compensate for unequal working lives or poor conditions and wages. That is why, as we have talked about earlier here today, we are making various efforts to strengthen social security, equality and security throughout society. But we are now seeing how pensions are broken out and the levels are getting too low. This is partly because we have not paid enough into the pension system and partly because of something that is fundamentally very pleasing: we are living longer and longer. Life expectancy is increasing rapidly, and the expected retirement period is now several years longer than predicted when the new pension system was constructed. This, in turn, means that the pension we have earned through work will now last for more years as a pensioner. If we don't do something, simple mathematics means that pensions fall. That is why we need to increase contributions to pension systems. We may have to work a little longer, and we need to increase the fees. Madam President, I would like The pension is supposed to be something we can all look forward to. We shall have a secure and strong society that will give back when it is time to retire. That is why we are continuing our efforts to raise pensions, both in the short term and in the longer term. Take care of yourselves out there! Continue to help each other through the crisis – especially our older people who shaped our society and who now need the rest of us extra much. Together, we are strong.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-453	Madam President, I would like Working must pay off, but working must also pay off. This means that there must be a clear difference in pension between the person who has worked for a full working life and the person who has not worked for a day. Therefore, the Pensions Group agreed on an additional pension supplement next year for those with a long career but relatively low pension. It should pay to work but also to have worked. This also means that the person who lives in Sweden for 40 years has qualified for a guarantee pension. New arrivals have an exception here today. We want to remove that exception so that new arrivals also need to qualify into the system. Work has to pay off for everyone. The pension group has also agreed to raise the retirement age, partly because we live longer and partly because we need to strengthen the pension system. We need to improve pensions for individual citizens. The only way to get a higher pension is through work. Every hour worked has a bearing on the pension. For this to be possible, we also need to facilitate the transition in the labour market – the possibility of changing in the middle of working life. For a woman who has worked in the care until the body is exhausted and she cannot cope anymore, it must be possible to change the course in her 50s and work with something else in the last few years before retirement. Today, that possibility is too bad. Here we have a wide range of proposals. We propose extending adult education and introducing deductions for the possibility of investing in their own education, to mention just two examples. But, Madam President, pensions also need to be more equal. Today, women's pensions are 69% of men's. This is totally unacceptable. The fact that women have had lower wages and worked less and fewer hours ultimately affects the pension. The long-term answer is simply the work line. We must ensure in the long term that more women work more and have the opportunity to participate in the labour market on equal and equal terms. But in the short term, in the near future, the Pensions Group has agreed on an increased guarantee pension and increased housing allowance for those with the lowest incomes; it is often women that are involved. Madam President, I would like Government and parliament must ensure that the core tasks of the state really work. An important part is that our elderly have good financial protection when they need it. But it's also about municipalities being able to deliver well-being and that healthcare can provide care on time. In these difficult times, when the whole world is going through a deep crisis due to the corona infection, it is particularly important that we protect the Swedish pension system so that Swedish pensioners, who have worked hard for a full working life, can rely on them to survive in the autumn of their age. Therefore, municipalities also need the support they need in order to offer our elderly a good welfare. Here, the Moderates have taken the lead to strengthen welfare and put the government in front of us when it comes to additional billions of contributions to both municipalities and regions. We intend to continue to protect pensioners in every way possible. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-462	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most stable pension systems. Simply put, today's pensions are financed by those who work today, apart from the premium pension that each saves for itself. The more you pay in, the more you get when you retire. Not that strange. It is important that we have a stable pension system on which there is broad political agreement and which lasts over time. We must not end up in a debate over pensions, where generations are being pitted against generations, and we are creating cracks in society and competing in undermining the state budget in various ways and in a irresponsible and untenable way engaging in pension policy. The pension system must be robust and ensure that people have a pension that they can manage on after working a whole life. It must be generous, but it needs to be sustainable over time and must not pit people against people. A number of important changes have been made and are on the way. The Liberals fully support these changes and will support the committee's proposal in this report. But I still want to say a few more things. Madam President, I would like For us in the Liberals, it is obvious that anyone who is older and wants to continue working in the labour market should be allowed to do so. It is unreasonable that today we cannot always continue to work even if we want to. The fact that you have lived a little longer than others must not be an obstacle. The fact that you have a little more experience and knowledge that you have gained through your working life must not be considered a burden. We cannot afford to waste the knowledge and experience of older people in working life by forcing people to stop working at a certain age. More people must be able to continue to contribute as we grow older. In the long term, the retirement age and the right to remain in work should be linked to the development of life expectancy. We see people getting older and older and are healthy longer than they were. This has been the case for a long time, and it seems to continue to be that way. It goes without saying that it is unreasonable that the pension system should not be included. Madam President, I would like I'd like to venture to be a little visionary here today. This is, in many respects, a technical debate and a debate that we have had many times in this Chamber. I read some news on the way here today. One innovation was that human stem cells have now been able to cure diabetes in mice. This is the first step towards completely curing diabetes, one of our most dangerous and common diseases. There is also new AI, artificial intelligence, that can predict heart attacks. Since 2002, the number of people who die from heart attacks has halved, and now there is AI that can predict heart attacks. I don't think we're gonna die of heart attacks in the future. We're not gonna die of diabetes. We're not gonna die of heart attacks. I also read about a new hand prosthesis, which feels and works just like an ordinary hand. We have no idea how long we will live. We have no idea what we will be, we who live, in a number of years – in the future. It is said that the first person to be 250 years old is already born. It's a breathtaking thought. 250 years ago, in 1770, James Cook set out on his first trip. Imagine if someone had said to James Cook: You will live until there is artificial intelligence, cars and electric airplanes. It's absolutely amazing. We can also consider what it will be like in 250 years' time and the person who is already living among us and who will be 250 years old. We do not know what medical progress will have been made. We have no idea what life will look like. We have no idea how long until that person can live, which is already 250 years old and lives in a time when the future equivalent of AI will come true. In the light of this breathtaking idea, it is of course unreasonable not to have a pension system that is sustainable for change. Today you're older when you're 80. Not very long ago, when you were 50 years old, you were older. In some countries, you are older when you are 40. If the pension system we have is to last over time, care must be taken to link it to the development of life expectancy. It is true that today there are a lot of problems with people who have worn themselves out in heavy occupations and who cannot even work until today's retirement age, but then policy must ensure that a more flexible labour market and better education systems can be created so that they can change. Maybe in my generation, I was born in the '90s, we'll be working until we're 100 or 150. We may need to go to a new university education when we turn 97. What do I know? The pension system must be robust and must last over time. Something else would not be sustainable and serious. If we become 250 years old and accumulate more knowledge, more skills and more experience, it would be a huge shortcoming not to take advantage of it. Already today there are people older than the age you are considered to be able to work to but who want to continue working. We don't take advantage of their skills. We can't afford that. Madam President, I would like We from the Liberals think that you should have freedom of choice throughout the working life and your whole life. You're supposed to live the way you want your whole life. You're supposed to work as you want your whole life. One should be allowed to work for as long as one wants, and then we must have a better pension system. Madam President, I would like I would just like to say a few words about the fact that we think it is very important to have the increased housing supplement and the increased guarantee pension. Of course, there are people who have far too low a pension. Often it is women who have suffered the most from an unequal working life. We must ensure that the economy of people with low pensions is strengthened. It concerns both the level of remuneration and the ceiling for the maximum rent for the housing supplement. We must ensure that pensioners who have worked for a lifetime get more in their wallets and simply have more freedom to live their lives. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-476	Madam President, I would like In the 250-year perspective mentioned by the previous speaker, three months is a very short period. It has been about three months since I was asked to represent the Green Party in the Pensions Group. I accepted, and it is with great humility that I take on that assignment. It is a large, important and responsible mission. The pension group, the pension agreement and the entire pension system, which the group has a great responsibility to care for, protect and manage, constitute an important cog throughout the construction of society. The fact that we have a broad agreement that has many years on our back, not 250 years but at least 25 years, and a group – the Pensions Group – that has a broad representation among the parties in the Riksdag guarantee stability in the pension system. The Green Party has not been present from the beginning, but I am glad that we are represented today. The pension system is autonomous. It is not affected by budgetary negotiations and proposals. It is financed outside the state budget, and changes are anchored in the Pensions Group. It gives us a stable system that is robust, which is on its own feet, that is able to cope with crises and is sustainable in the long term. The two very words – long-term sustainability – are two of the perhaps most important fundamental values of green ideology. We're in the middle of a crisis right now. It is a health crisis in which older people in particular are severely affected. We have to rely on the care and care and the heroes of the staff who work day and night to mitigate the effects of the plague. It is also a financial crisis, an economic crisis. This is where the policy comes in, but we have seen in previous crises and in countries with less robust pension systems that there is a fear that in the autumn of the age their own livelihoods will be taken away from one when society's economy fails. That fear and anxiety have a great ability to drive crises further and make them deeper and longer. In Sweden we should not be there. We have a pension system that is capable of financial crises, and that is precisely long-term and sustainable. For its own part, it has been an exciting initial time in the Pensions Group. A lot has happened, not only in the last three months, but also in the more than one year since I became a member of the Swedish Parliament, which I became in connection with the formation of the government in January last year. We have raised the retirement age, both the age of the earliest withdrawal in the income-based old-age pension and the LAS-regulated age for how long you have the right to work as an employee. We have strengthened the basic protection in the guarantee pension and raised the ceiling in the housing supplement. We have abolished the pensioner's tax in several stages. This work began during the last term of office and has now continued. We have increased pensions by introducing a pension supplement of up to SEK 600 per month for ordinary pensioners. We are now reviewing the premium pension scheme. We have introduced clearer requirements for the funds in the fund square and are now doing a larger review for a new procured fund square that should be easier to understand, among other things. Madam President, I would like These are important reforms, but the Green Party naturally wants more. We always drive questions about increased gender equality. Unfortunately, equality is not something that comes of its own accord. Equality will only come if someone sets off. Swedish pensioners do not have equal opportunities. There are thousands of dollars a month in the pension envelopes between men and women. An important measure for more equal pensions is the increase in the guarantee pension, which was implemented on 1 January this year. It benefits women to a greater extent than men, since it is women who are most vulnerable. But the goal of more equal pensions is something that the Pensions Group needs to take along and work on in the future. But it is not the pension system itself that is unequal. We live in a patriarchy. It is an unequal society with a highly unequal labour market. We can't just patch and fix the system in the end. We must use political strength to achieve a more equal society. A key factor in this is the early childhood years. Fathers need to get loose and take greater responsibility. We need a more individualised system for taking parental leave. The Green Party runs a three-part parental insurance scheme, each of which each parent receives a separate share. If one third is over – it does not have to be in all families – it can be transferred between the parents or, for example, to someone else who takes a large parental responsibility. Other necessary reforms to increase gender equality in the labour market are equal pay and equal and safe workplaces. We need to reduce sick leave. Not least, we need to work more on mental health. Shorter working hours would probably also lead in several ways to a more equal society and working life and ultimately to more equal conditions for pensioners. Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier long-term sustainability. The Green Party does not just want economically sustainable pensions. We also want our pension funds to be invested in a way that contributes to the long-term sustainable development of the environment and the planet. The Green Party gradually wants to tighten the rules for how the money is placed so that the AP funds comply with the Paris Agreement and the 2-degree target. The climate cannot wait! We've come a bit on our way. The ownership associated with fossil energy has decreased sharply in recent years. This has been driven by the Green Party within the framework of our representation in the Pensions Group. Without us, things would have been different. We will now continue to work for strong pensions, an equal society and a living planet. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-490	Mr President, I would like to Sweden and the whole world are in a unique situation. The global pandemic is a crisis for people's lives and health, and while we are debating in this House today, covid-19 patients are fighting for their lives. In the care, the staff work many and long hours while they are burdened with the thought of what will happen if the patients continue to grow. In nursing homes and in home care, the staff are constantly working with the concern that someone is going to get infected. And this weekend, Sweden's older people celebrated Easter without children and grandchildren being able to come to visit. I know that many people took the opportunity instead to call and wish happy Easter to loved ones or send an appreciative text message to those in the acquaintances who worked extra sessions in health care. I hope that everyone will keep in touch, because although we do not know how long the virus outbreak will be, we know that it is not over yet. The whole of Swedish society now joins in the fight against the virus. People offer to shop for neighbors who are unable to go out. Companies switch their production to medical supplies, and restaurants that struggle to pass the rent at the same time cook lunch boxes for health care personnel. Sweden is showing itself from its very best side. Mr President, I would like to All predictions of future economic developments are currently very uncertain. The pandemic and the measures taken against it have created a downturn in the economy whose dimensions cannot be described as anything but historical. On the other side of the Atlantic, Americans are applying for unemployment benefits at an unprecedented rate. In Germany, our most important trading partner, over 1 million workers have already been laid off. There are more than during the global financial crisis, and the number of layoffs is expected to double. Yesterday, the Swedish Employment Service announced that more than 56,000 employees have been notified of dismissal in March and April and that the number of newly registered unemployed is over 82 000. The government expects an unemployment rate of 9 per cent, the highest level in over 20 years. Sweden's public finances are weakened by both falling tax revenues and the fiscal measures taken. The deficits this year are estimated to amount to nearly SEK 200 billion or equivalent to 3.8 per cent of GDP. But thanks to the surplus of recent years, Sweden has the lowest national debt since 1977, and that gives us great room for manoeuvre to take action. In addition to this year's spring amending budget, the government has in recent weeks put forward five draft supplementary amending budgets. To give a clear picture of the government's policy on the Corona virus, I will present all these proposals in one context. Before doing so, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals for their very good and constructive cooperation. The same applies to the opposition parties. Thanks to your constructive work and great responsibility, many of the measures put forward have already been able to come into force. The Swedish people should know that the parties in the Swedish Parliament take the situation very seriously, understand the importance of rapid and energetic action and are able to gather themselves in a critical time for Sweden. Swedish democracy has also proved its best in a difficult time. Mr President, I would like to First of all, the virus must be combated. On 1 January, the government decided to classify the new coronavirus as a social disease. Since then, there has been continuous work on the part of the government to provide health care, authorities and others who fight the virus with both resources and tools. In order to reduce the spread of infectious diseases, the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal and the requirement for a medical certificate have been suspended. The National Board of Health and Welfare is now purchasing equipment for sampling, protection and intensive care. Money is being pushed to increase the number of tests as a matter of urgency and to finance research aimed at combating the virus. And on March 11, the government announced that the state will take all extraordinary medical costs that the regions and municipalities will have in relation to the Corona virus. At the same time, performance requirements in queue billions are temporarily removed. Unfortunately, the risk of a shortage of materials and medicine cannot be ruled out when virtually the whole world is asking for the same goods. However, as far as financial resources are concerned, my message to everyone who works with health care and disease prevention is crystal clear: a lack of money must not, should not and will not stand in the way of your important work. Mr President, I would like to Pandemin also beats hard against large parts of Swedish business. Many Swedish entrepreneurs now do not know whether their activities will cope with the crisis or how their employees will fare. To support viable companies and reduce job losses, the government has presented several crisis packages with measures that both lift costs directly and strengthen liquidity. In order for more companies to cope with the crisis and fewer employees to lose their jobs, a system of short-term lay-off has been introduced. Since its introduction a few weeks ago, more than 24 000 applications have been received. This is equivalent to SEK 9 billion. Of these, 16 000 applications have already been decided. A rental subsidy has been introduced for companies in particularly vulnerable sectors, and 1 billion is also allocated to support culture and sport. In addition, the employer's contribution has been reduced, and the state temporarily takes over the entire cost of sickness pay. In order to strengthen liquidity, the payment of taxes is also deferred and the possibility for self-employed to add profits to the accrual fund is extended. Both of these measures apply retroactively, which for many means a direct payment to the tax account. More than 8 600 companies have been granted tax deferrals. In total, it amounts to over SEK 13 billion. We have also set up a state enterprise agency to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain bank loans. Some fifty banks have already signed agreements with the National Debt Office. Almi, which has a large regional presence throughout the country, receives capital injections to increase its lending to small and medium-sized enterprises around Sweden. Swedish Export Credit's loan framework and the Export Credit Board's guarantee framework have been extended to support Swedish export companies. All in all, the crisis packages facilitate many hard-pressed companies. Mr President, I would like to The measures I have presented so far will cost taxpayers enormous sums of money. But they will also save many Swedish companies. In this way, many wage earners will not have to go out into unemployment. At the same time, I want to be clear on one point: companies will go bankrupt, and people will be unemployed. Labour market policy has therefore been strengthened to give the unemployed both financial security and good opportunities to get back to work. In order to strengthen financial security, both the basic amount and the ceiling of the unemployment fund are increased while the requirements for qualifying are lowered. In order to be able to meet an increased influx of unemployed people and ensure equal service throughout the country, the Employment Service receives more funds. In addition, we are increasing labour market policy efforts. These include, for example, labour market training, which should also be provided at a distance, additional services and support and matching services. At the same time, the time for those who currently have extra services, introductory positions or new start-up jobs is extended. Anyone who loses their job should be able to replenish their skills. More places are created at universities and colleges, universities of applied sciences, universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences. Then we increase security, and then we strengthen the possibilities for conversion. Mr President, I would like to Beyond the ongoing pandemic, the social problems that the government and the cooperation parties have jointly undertaken to address remain. In addition to the severe pressure that the Corona virus puts on health care staff, municipalities and regions were already struggling with a strained economic situation. Regions and municipalities are therefore added to general resource enhancements of SEK 20 billion in 2020, of which SEK 12.5 billion is a permanent addition. This not only helps to secure prosperity when municipal tax revenues fall but is also an effective economic policy to meet the downturn in the economy. Moreover, the fight against crime is by no means over. Neither the crimes nor the causes of the crimes take account of the pandemic, but must be met with the full force of the rule of law. The package to strengthen the judiciary presented in January is now being completed in the spring amending budget. We must also step up the pace of climate change, not only to leave a sustainable world to our children and grandchildren, but also to secure the jobs and prosperity of the future. In order to bring Sweden closer to the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country, the government proposes a green job initiative and strengthening support for solar cells and biogas. Mr President, I would like to The crisis measures presented so far are estimated to cost taxpayers about SEK 100 billion. These are figures that are unprecedented in modern Swedish history. Much also suggests that the amounts may grow before this has turned around, not least as there are more who use short-term lay-off. At the same time, we will need resources to restart the economy when the worst crisis is over. Sweden has a very good starting point for managing both tasks thanks to the fact that we have saved in the barns and made sure to reduce public debt. But no country – not even Sweden – has unlimited resources at its disposal. We need to strike a balance between crisis measures here and now, perseverance if the crisis goes far and fuel to kickstart the economy when the virus allows. With all due respect for all the voices now heard in the debate, we have different roles, and a crisis debate puts its finger on that very thing. It is ultimately the government and its co-operation parties that have a responsibility to ensure not only a balanced policy here and now, but also a policy that ensures that resources are available even if the crisis is more prolonged and in order to restart the economy when the worst crisis is over. But not only that – there should also be money left for all the nurses, nurses and doctors who are now struggling with the virus so that they can have their salary paid in November as well and so that we can pay the child benefit in December. This is a responsibility that we have, and it is a responsibility that we will take. However difficult the situation is, Sweden will get through this, and when we do, the government will continue to work to build society stronger and safer for the entire Swedish people around our elongated country.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-524	Mr President, I would like to It is, as the Minister for Finance describes it, that many good reforms have been presented during this crisis. These are, for example, proposals on short-term lay-off aid – proposals that we have helped to do better so that dividends will not be allowed when the state enters with contributions from taxpayers. It is not reasonable for the state to go in with money and for the shareholders to take them out with the other fist. It has been presented good bets on a reinforced unemployment fund and on a withdrawal, where the level may have been a little too low, I might say. These are also good training measures and comprehensive crisis packages to save jobs and businesses. While we are here debating, we know that there are very many who are fighting out there to prevent the spread of the disease and to take care of those who have suffered from the Corona. They toil and struggle in health care and care. They are applauded and applauded, and it is very well deserved. What they need to hear in this crisis is that they are not being left in the lurch – not now during the pandemic and not afterwards. They need to hear that there is hope and confidence in the future and that they will have more colleagues, better working conditions, better working environment and even better wages. They need to hear that. However, when we look at the budget that we are now debating, we see that the government – the Social Democrats – is planning for cuts in welfare. This is a reduction in municipal consumption of 15 billion to cope with demographics and to cope with reduced tax revenues. This is an enormous amount of money – it corresponds to the salaries of approximately 25 000 nurses. Even worse, it's going to look like it's going to be. My question to the Minister for Finance is: why are the Social Democrats planning these cuts in the crisis, and why not increase the resources that are actually needed?
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-530	Mr President, I would like to The budget that I am presenting today makes the largest contribution to municipalities and regions that have ever been made in Sweden. It is the largest crisis package for municipalities and regions. This is, of course, an important message to all those who work out there. In addition, we have lifted the costs of sick pay for municipalities and regions. We have also been clear that we are taking all extraordinary costs due to this virus. This has, of course, been an important message, not least to all those who work and are now making fantastic contributions to health care and care for our elderly. Many do so at the same time as they are concerned about their own health. The crisis that has now come has also pinpointed the often precarious employment conditions, not least in home care. It is extremely important that those who are employers, namely the municipalities and the private companies, ensure that there are reasonable conditions for those who work in these businesses. We have provided the greatest resources that have ever been provided. We have also made it clear that we are providing additional resources. Some of this will remain in place next year, but then, of course, we will follow developments very closely. We are also clear that we will come back in connection with the autumn budget, when we have a little more knowledge of how this crisis is developing, in order to be able to make an assessment of the resource needs of municipalities and regions in the future. What tax revenues the municipalities and regions will have in the future is, of course, very much about how deep the crisis will be and how long it will be.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-535	Mr President, I would like to We know that the Social Democrats were already planning this autumn for the cuts in health care, education and long-term care – we could read that in that budget. In the budget we now have on the table, we can read that, unfortunately, these cuts are continuing. We also know that those who are now struggling out there and giving everything they can to deal with this pandemic as well as possible have been living under cutbacks for a very long time, not least in the underfunded elderly care. They do not need to hear that the government is making the greatest contribution that has been made in modern times. They may need to hear it, but it does not help if the cuts still continue and correspond to the salaries of 25 000 nurses. They need more workmates, not fewer. They need better working conditions, not worse. Why should we not invest in welfare when we know that this is really needed and that it actually pays off in many ways? Not least, we get a stronger society that stays together.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-538	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what we're doing. That is why we are making the greatest effort ever made, which more than compensates for the tax losses of municipalities and regions. This can also be read in the budget. I am prepared to discuss and listen to ideas about spending even more on welfare; I have been clear about this throughout this period. I am prepared to listen to all the suggestions that exist. This also applies, of course, to the need for increased resources in welfare. I would like to remind you that there are 100 000 more people working in welfare now compared to when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. I think this is important when Ulla Andersson only talks about cuts. There has been a very strong expansion of welfare since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. It is not least thanks to the good cooperation we have also had with the Left Party that we have both been able to improve working conditions and to ensure that there have been more employees in these important activities.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-541	Mr President, I would like to There are many things that the government has done that have been good in this crisis. The government has lifted sick pay, strengthened unemployment insurance, and yesterday the lay-off possibilities were further strengthened, as we have long been calling for. However, whether it is my role or not, I am afraid that the measures are not fully proportionate to the depth and speed of the crisis. Magdalena Andersson himself compared the crisis to a vasal race and said that it is important that there are resources for energy replenishment last mile, and that is obvious. But when the skier is standing on the first hill and the skis have frozen together with the ground and the rod is broken, it is support there and then needed to avoid the race completely broken. Then it matters less if there is energy 70 km further ahead if the skier does not reach over the crest. It is therefore my view that the government must do more precisely to cope with health care and care in the future, and realise, for example, that the system of rent reduction is too small and is in danger of becoming too complicated. There is a need for a larger, more robust system to lift the fixed costs of companies in the short term, in order to prevent the breakdown of jobs in the crisis, in order to avoid bankruptcies and avoid high unemployment, which, after all, entails high costs. The government must broaden the lay-off system and strengthen and raise the wage ceiling, but above all quickly change the rules so that more people can get caught up in their jobs. I believe that it is not reasonable in this deep economic crisis for companies to be required to resign their temporary staff in order to benefit from the lay-off aid for their permanent employees. It is not a measure that is justified in a deep, deep recession. Even Samhall now resigns his employees from their workplaces to meet this requirement. Why is it important to force companies to lay off temporary workers in order for them to benefit from other State aid?
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-546	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed refers to the system of short-term lay-off. Some of the proposals in the investigation were that companies should do what they can to reduce their costs before they can take part in the short-term lay-off system. It also includes the disposal of non-permanent staff. The aim of the whole short-term lay-off is to protect viable companies so that they can get through the crisis. It was not primarily thought of as an alternative to unemployment benefit. What Jakob Forssmed is discussing and sketching would be more of a form of short-term lay-off as an extended, expanded and more generous unemployment fund. This is another way of looking at short-term lay-offs, and I myself may find this an interesting way of looking at short-term lay-offs. Of course, I am also prepared to discuss this with Jakob Forssmed. I am prepared to listen to many different opinions. It is a new approach to have corrigendum lay-off instead of a check-out. It is clear that it would significantly increase both the level of remuneration and the level of unemployment benefit compared to today.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-549	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, it is not a new approach. This is contained in the legislation that is dormant from 2014, and that the government has chosen not to activate, for events in deep recession and that the Institute of Economics has asked the government to activate. Both in the investigation and in the bill that was placed on Parliament's table, and that has been decided, it says that temporary employees should be included. Instead, the government has chosen to work with a system that will operate in a normal economic situation. I respect the fact that it's hard to choose the right system to work in. But you have to make sure that it works and do what it is actually supposed to do. In Europe as a whole, after the financial crisis, it was seen how bad it was for temporary workers. At that time, Germany, France, Belgium and Austria expanded their lay-off systems to include temporary staff. Sweden does the opposite. I find it surprising and have not heard any sustainable argument for it to be that way.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-552	Mr President, I would like to We lifted the system that was possible to lift when we did it. It was before the crisis was as deep as it is now that we arrived very quickly with the short-term lay-off system. The system that can be used in a deeper and more prolonged crisis is not nearly as generous as the system that we have turned on here and now. Using that system would provide companies with a lower remuneration than the system we have been screwing up at the moment, so it is not clear that this is the best way forward. Yesterday we came up with a further extension of the short-term lay-off system. The system that we now have is really aimed at those companies that are in great need here and now. It is also the case that parts of the business community are doing very well, such as those who make toilet paper. But even the trade is very good and does not need the short-term lay-off system at all. It is an argument that this system, which is aimed more at parts of the business world, is the most appropriate one here and now.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-555	Mr President, I would like to Nothing is anymore as usual. For those who have been forced to experience the most brutal consequences of the Corona virus, it is never again exactly as usual. I am thinking of the couple who, a few months ago, sat together on the TV sofa and followed the spread of a new virus across the globe. You saw a boat that was quarantined. Today, only one of them is still on the TV sofa and has had their entire existence crushed after losing their partner in life from the same virus stuck here in Sweden. I am also thinking of the daughter who did not have time to say goodbye to her mother and the parents who have seen the virus in just a few weeks break down their adult children. Mr President, I would like to Even if the vast majority of victims of covid-19 get healthy, I still think today of all the families that have now been broken down. Mr President, I would like to It's not all the same. Sweden is in a war. The enemy is not another country but a virus that we cannot see with the naked eye. The health and care personnel are our brave soldiers in the front line. They go to work dutylessly every day to help others, at the risk of their own health. By doing everything we can to reduce the spread of infection, we all help. You who are careless and not really listening to all the advice and guidelines that are being given are not only at risk of your own health; you are also at risk of infecting others. And you risk getting sick and taking up a place that someone else would have needed better. Do not endanger others by acting selfishly! Now is the time for responsibility. Give me a hand! Together, we will get through this crisis. Mr President, I would like to The Corona virus tests Sweden, primarily on a human level. But it also strikes right into the Swedish economy. All of us who in different ways have responsibility for the Swedish economy must do our utmost to help take Sweden through the economic crisis that we are currently in. We Moderates continue to put forward proposals that can save jobs and businesses. We believe that the state must throw out a lifeline that is long enough to reach companies and thus save jobs. The parties of Parliament, all eight of them, have been constructive during these weeks, and I agree with what the Minister for Finance has said. That is good, and I am pleased that we have just been constructive. We Moderates are also trying to do everything we can to be constructive so that the government can quickly get its emergency packages through here in Parliament. At the same time, we are concerned that the government has not acted forcefully enough given the very serious situation we are in. We have warned that some of the support efforts are not enough to help many of the companies that are currently most threatened. We are simply concerned that the lifeline is not getting through. Mr President, I would like to It's all going at a furious pace right now. Business revenue disappears in just a few days. This is what it looks like everywhere the virus pulls out. In the United States, no less than 17 million people have been out of work within a few weeks. Here in Sweden, 82 000 have registered as unemployed only since 1 March. I believe that we are all in this House for talks with small and large companies. It can be with someone who runs a taxi company, a barbershop, a bakery or a restaurant. But there are also many in industry who give us a clear picture that nothing is the same. An entrepreneur in Lindesberg who I talked to the other day has AB Volvo and Scania as their biggest customers. From one day to the next, he lost all demand because the factories just then shut down. This means that he has no production, and he has no deliveries. His debts are now in danger of growing, like many other companies, and becoming difficult to deal with when the crisis is over. Mr President, I would like to This is no ordinary crisis. It is a crisis in which well-managed companies, in which many have their jobs and livelihoods, are now at risk of destruction. Companies that were well before the crisis are now for a limited period of time largely more or less without revenue. They have in no way earned this. They are not knocked out by competitors, and they have not made bad investments. Nor is it a general structural change that is now needed, and it is not a financial crisis. No, it is a virus that now breaks down normally strong and viable companies, causing many people to lose their jobs and even more people to risk doing so. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates will not give up on this. Sweden needs to implement strong measures to save jobs and prevent mass unemployment and to prevent us from entering a deep recession. I know some people want to hold back, and I know we've done a lot in here together. But what economy is it that we should restart? We believe that we now need to make great efforts to save jobs and industries and that the restart should not be so difficult once it is done. We do not want to restart an economy where mass unemployment has taken root. I know that there needs to be money left for child benefit and for the nurse in December, but that requires that not too many people lose their job and that we lose tax revenue. Mr President, I would like to I think we all want to do everything we can to save as many jobs as possible. This is what the Swedish people expect of us who are in here right now. What we do these days and weeks is probably the most important task in our entire political act, regardless of our role. I think we all feel the same way. I say it again: the decisions we make over the next few days and weeks will affect the whole 20th century. And the decisions we do not make we will live with much longer than that. Mr President, I would like to Several important decisions have been made here in Parliament. Many have been constructive and fast-footed, and many of us have been involved in pushing forward – everything from abolishing Karen's Day and allowing the state to take full responsibility for sickness pay to removing the amount of the allowance and, as now, lowering the interest rate. These are important decisions. But there are also decisions where the government has met us in part, but where I believe that there has not been enough action. The introduction of an SME loan guarantee is a good thing, but why does the government not take a greater share of the risk so that the lifeline reaches the end? To ensure that the government enters and takes part of the rent is good, but why does the state not take half of the cost so that the lifeline reaches all the way? The fact that employers' contributions are now partially reduced, especially for smaller companies, is good, but why not remove the whole employer's contribution when we know that both small and large companies have problems? The lifeline could go further. Mr President, I would like to As I said before, this is not an ordinary economic crisis, but a pandemic. It is an extreme situation that requires extraordinary efforts, and I believe that we need to change our approach. It's two parts. The first is about what I just said: to ensure that as many jobs as possible are saved. We therefore believe that, for a short period of time, the state needs to go in by EUR 100 billion per month, first and foremost in April and May, in order to support companies and overcome the acute crisis. The second is about preparing Sweden for a start-up of the economy, including by enabling extensive tests so that more people can start living as usual again, go to work, shop in shops and eat at a restaurant. This costs money, and I would have liked to see more of it in this budget. I have a brief comment on money for welfare. I know that 20 billion is a historically great investment, but these 20 billion are precisely what is now predicted to disappear in reduced tax revenues when the crisis affects municipalities and regions. That's exactly 20 billion. In addition, add all the other revenue that is now being lost in the municipalities and regions and all the additional costs that arise. More will be needed. In conclusion, Mr President, Sweden needs a new strategy to save as many jobs as possible. We risk mass unemployment and recession if we do not do enough now. This is where we have to throw out a long enough lifeline that reaches all the way. If the government is not prepared to meet us, we will always be prepared to discuss with parties in the Swedish parliament to do even more to save jobs. Because even if we have different roles, we have a common responsibility: to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-579	Mr President, I would like to Nothing is any longer as usual, Elisabeth Svantesson started with, and we can all agree with that. In times of crisis, shock and threats – we all feel a threat from the pandemic – new insights and knowledge usually appear. Actually, I wonder if the Moderates have also gained new insights and knowledge. The situation in care for the elderly is very serious. The spread of infection is extensive, especially here in Stockholm's elderly care. Elderly care has long been underfunded. Tax cuts have been a priority at national and local level, not least under Moderate government. There have been substantial cuts, which have led to considerable stress, many part-time jobs and many employees who do not have an education or just a short one. In the privatised care of the elderly, continuity is even worse, and the number of fixed-term employees, as well as part-time work, is higher. The number of employees is smaller and the level of education is lower. The prize for the prize hunt. Here in Stockholm, where the infection is very widespread in elderly care, privatisations and the pursuit of profits are also extensive. Some ninety companies operate here in the care of the elderly, making it difficult to control and control. An old person with great care needs can have visits by as many as 25 different people during a 14-day period. We have seen that private companies do not even report corona infected, and the lack of protective clothing is extensive. Privatisation and tax cuts make society more fragile and less equipped to face a crisis. My question to Elisabeth Svantesson is therefore: Have these insights been found in the Moderates as well?
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-585	Mr President, I would like to What I have learned from the crisis is that everything can be put on hold in just a few days. What I have learned from the crisis is that it is then good that eight parties can gather around what is important to save lives and prevent the spread of infection. I appreciate that eight parties have put this in focus. Debates on tax levels and on whether retirement homes should be run by local authorities or by other means, I think we should take after the crisis. But I can remind Ulla Andersson that it was only a few months ago that we together ensured that municipalities and regions, that is, welfare, have more resources. It's necessary. I am absolutely convinced that the EUR 20 billion that the government and support parties have now come up with is too little. More will be needed, both to prevent the spread of infection and to care for the sick and to ensure that welfare has the necessary resources. My answer to Ulla Andersson is: Yes, we have learned many things during this crisis, but the most important thing here and now is to make sure that we save lives and then that we save jobs, so that we can restart the economy.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-589	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we are going to save lives, prevent the spread of infection and protect those who are very vulnerable to the infection, the so-called risk groups, including many older people. Even the Moderates should have wondered why it is so difficult to prevent the spread of infection in the care of the elderly. That is why we have made all these efforts to protect the elderly in particular so that they do not get the infection. I have at least considered what we can do differently for the future in order to build a stronger society that will enable us to face crises better. Then I think even the Moderates should have thought about it and had time to do it. Even though we have contributed more money to the welfare – it has been a great collaboration to do so – one must also consider why society has become so fragile. I would like to reply that tax cuts have their price, and a cut-out of care for the elderly makes it very difficult to act to prevent the spread of infection. I wonder if Elisabeth Svantesson sees that too.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-593	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I am surprised that Ulla Andersson chooses this day to try to have a debate on privatisations and tax cuts. Does Ulla Andersson seriously believe that it depends on what color those who control have what it now looks like at Sweden's retirement homes? There is much to learn after this crisis. We will all follow that up. A Commission and other things are needed to monitor how we can better protect and should have protected the elderly. But turning it into a tax bench debate is not something I intend to engage in.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-594	Mr President, I would like to Clearly, these are very difficult times for our society. I want to start by saying that I think the government and the Ministry of Finance have done a lot of good things. On the whole, they have worked effectively and quickly, and we in the Committee on Finance have done the same with enormous support and backing from the committee's secretarial staff. Then, of course, the real heroes may not be sitting in this congregation or in Rosenbad, but they are out in care and care and care for our sick and our old ones. Mr President, I would like to We just don't know enough. We do not know the extent of the number of infected and, unfortunately, the number of dead. Nor do we know the damage to the economy. Nevertheless, we must have the courage to make decisions, despite the lack of information. There we agree on a lot, but we also disagree on other things. I am of the opinion that we would have needed more comprehensive measures. In fact, the cost of increasing our public debt by 10 percentage points, perhaps even 20 percentage points, is on the whole rather low. It may sound monumental when spoken in terms of hundreds of billions of dollars. But the actual impact on the Swedish economy of 10 percentage points higher public debt, measured as a proportion of bnp, is actually quite low and definitely fully manageable. I do not know who first coined the expression: it can be expensive to be cheap. But I've used it on different occasions. It sounds a bit like an oxymoron, a self-contradictory. It should be cheap to be cheap. But there is still some logic behind it. If you are going to renovate your home, you take in a number of quotes from different craftsmen. Then it is not obvious that you should choose the cheapest. If you do a job with lower quality now there may be additional costs later. A little in this way you can think about this economic crisis too. If we do not do enough now, it risks being considerably more expensive later. I think it's been a long time to bring out the really heavy artillery that we have in our arsenal. For his part, the Minister of Finance has argued that we should not do too much now, so that we have some barrels of dry powder left later. I can understand the rationality behind this approach. There is some bearing in this argument, but I am of a different opinion. At present, we cannot really know, at least not with some kind of certainty, who is right or who is wrong, for the simple reason that we know too little. Mr President, I would like to During this process, we have argued for a number of concrete things. We believe that the entire employer's contribution, including the self-contribution, should be abolished during this period. We think that the state should have taken a much greater cost responsibility for these short-term lay-offs that we have decided on, like our neighbouring country, Norway, for example. This may well prove to be the difference between a very large number of business failures and quite few business failures. With the latest changes you are now getting closer, but you are not really in goal. I would add that for years, well before this crisis, we have argued that unemployment insurance should have a higher ceiling but also be compulsory, centralised and state-funded and administered. It is good that the government, and now the Parliament, have taken steps to raise the ceiling and more can be covered. Less good, however, is that this anachronism – that it is politically oriented trade unions that take their members' money and give it primarily to the Social Democratic Labour Party – should administer our a-cassors, even though it is all other taxpayers who have to finance them. When we have returned to a situation with a reasonable degree of peace of mind, the Riksdag should take a serious look at how to develop and strengthen unemployment insurance, not least as a safeguard in future crises, and preferably on the basis of the Swedish Democrats' proposals. Mr President, I would like to Throughout this process, we have tried to be constructive. We have steered through the measures proposed by the Government on the table of Parliament as quickly as it has been possible at all. And I would like to be careful once again to point out that these measures have not been wrong in themselves. On the contrary, the government has done some pretty good things. But with that said, I think you should dare to take both one and two and perhaps even three and four more steps. Mr President, I would like to We will also support a great deal of what the government is proposing in this spring economic proposal, not least with regard to the strengthening of municipalities and regions. We will also present our own proposal. Above all, we will focus on the longer-term economy of municipalities and regions. Of course, they have suffered direct costs in connection with this crisis, not least in terms of health care. In the future, however, they will also suffer indirect effects in terms of increased unemployment, lower tax revenues and higher expenditure on supply aid. We need the state to help the municipalities and regions through this crisis and its consequences. However, apart from this, we need to find ways to strengthen their economy also in the long term and in the long term. Of course, the capacity of the regions to maintain a high level of preparedness, for example in relation to protective equipment or medical equipment in general, is ultimately a resource issue and therefore a priority issue, as is so often the case in politics. Regions with a strong economy – everything else equal – will be better placed to maintain a high level of preparedness than those with a weak economy. We will come back with proposals on this. When I say long-term and long-term, that's what I mean. It is not in times of crisis that good preparedness is being built. On the contrary, in good times when all is peace and joy. This is not about being hindsight in any way; it can really be anyone. Next to no one could have predicted exactly this scenario with exactly this course. But there must be something positive out of all this – all the people who have lost their jobs, fallen ill and even died, all the entrepreneurs who have fought as animals and may still have gone down. If we – the parliament and government – can then, in total agreement, get a more sober and perhaps even harsh view of what it means to maintain a high level of preparedness, all of this has not happened in vain, therefore something good has come about. Medical equipment, food supply, energy supply, oil depots, fire-fighting capabilities, shelters, home defences, field hospitals and war placements – both blue and red governments have left a great deal to be desired here. We will experience more crises with almost a hundred percent certainty, and the next crisis will most likely be of a completely different nature and character from that we are experiencing now. Let us therefore do everything in our power, together, to be as prepared as it is at all possible.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-609	Mr President, I would like to When we gather for this debate, a global pandemic is raging in all parts of the country. Our economy is in free fall, and our whole society is characterised by uncertainty we have never experienced before. Despite all this, Sweden stands strong. Despite the pressures we have not experienced in manna memory, Sweden stands united. Right now, so many show what Swedish determination means in practice. They are nurses, nurses and doctors in the front line of care and small businesses working day and night to save their businesses from bankruptcy and rescue staff from redundancies. There are many of us who do our part by doing our job, following advice from authorities, following guidelines and in other ways now taking our social responsibility when it is needed most. The political work over the past few weeks has primarily been about three things. It is about securing central social functions, supporting welfare and the activities that must function – or not – and saving Swedish jobs and companies to the extent possible. When it comes to central social functions, it is a broad palette of measures. It is about the health care promise that was given early to municipalities and regions that all extraordinary costs of ensuring health care in the country are taken by the state. No municipality and no region shall have to refuse justified measures to prevent or remedy the spread of infection for economic reasons. That price tag, according to the latest forecast, is up to 3 billion, and there is no indication that this figure will not be significantly higher before this is clear. It has been about securing Swedish domestic aviation in those places where you need this type of infrastructure, not least for the care needs for rapid transport of both personnel and equipment. There are several different additional things that have been done to ensure that central social functions – what must work – can continue despite all the different aspects of the Corona crisis. Measures and steps have been taken to secure Swedish welfare. Schools, care for the elderly and health care will continue to work despite the very tough times and despite the fact that our municipalities see very sharp cases in the latest forecasts of tax revenues. There we have now made a number of billions of reinforcements. In the budget we are debating and will decide on today, the total figure is just over 20 billion. This is an area that we must constantly follow, not least because we know that in a number of municipalities there were very tough times already when we entered the more acute phase of the Corona crisis. It is about being able to supply the public service that we should all start from in an acceptable way in all parts of the country. Measures and steps have been taken to ensure welfare throughout the country, and this area will also remain in the greatest possible focus. Most of the measures that we have now taken are contained in a number of supplementary amending budgets, and a number of them are also included in the document that will be put forward by Parliament a little later on as part of this budget product. Most measures are about securing Swedish jobs and companies. It's about new credit opportunities to ensure liquidity in our companies despite tough times. But it is also very much about relief in the form of costs being lifted from the companies' shoulders to create more reasonable conditions to deal with these tough times. It is the abolition of sick pay liability for companies and a reduction in employers' contributions, in which this House and the eight parties voting for the extraordinary amending budgets in fierce stream have broken Swedish record in tax cuts over a short period of time. Only yesterday, the January parties came forward with the reinforcement of the short-term lay-off system in order to be able to lift further of the personnel costs that vulnerable companies find very difficult to secure in a situation where turnover falls. The overall scope of these measures is already historic. But it is also clear that we need to be prepared to do more when we follow the course further. We are currently operating, both politically and in companies, with total uncertainty. No one knows how long the more acute phase of the Corona crisis will last. Is it two weeks, two months or twelve months ahead that we have to deal with the more extraordinary phase of this? Nobody knows. We learn more every day, but we must be able to operate here and now as well as in the medium and long term. The Center Party belongs to the parties that have been out and signaled a readiness to take further steps in the short term. Such a step was taken yesterday, but we have also seen with interest what is being done not least in Denmark and Norway in terms of targeted aid going precisely to those companies that have lost a very large part of their turnover in the short term. We need to continue this work, and we need to continue to see what we can do further to secure Swedish jobs and companies in the short, medium and long term. The readiness to do further things exists. However, we also need to maintain a readiness for the acute phase to be more prolonged and to see how we can then rework the temporary measures now to work in the longer term too. We need to be prepared for the fact that if the accident is there and the crisis finds its way into other sectors that have not so far been so affected to be able to deal with this as well. Then, of course, I am thinking not least of the real estate and banking sector, should things go so badly. We need to have resources left to make the more long-term kick-start of the Swedish economy when the acute phase is behind us and when we have to decide how to build a new and stronger Sweden based on the lessons we have learned from the Corona crisis. There we must come back and focus on public finances. We must ensure that, following the measures we are now taking, we return to the low level of public debt with which we entered the Corona crisis. It is clear that the good public finances that we have served us very well. One hardly wants to think about what it would have been like to deal with the difficulties we now have if Sweden had had the level of public debt that applies in countries in southern Europe, which have the same problems but not at all the same opportunities to act. We must also draw conclusions in terms of civil preparedness and civil defence and how we build a sustainable Sweden that can handle pressures or shocks regardless of what they look like. In recent years we have received a number of reminders that Sweden is not as well prepared as we would have to be. It has been about preparedness to deal with forest fires, and it has been about the weaknesses that we now see and that we have to patch and fix in the Swedish preparedness in the wake of the Corona crisis. Here we need to learn lessons. It will cost money to solve the problems created by the elected representatives of the 1990s and the early 2000s when Swedish preparedness was reduced too far. We must also, as we here and now have to be prepared to make great efforts to secure Swedish jobs and companies, in a new start in Sweden, see how we get private investment going. How do we maintain Sweden as a world-class industrial country? How do we ensure that we make the green investments that must be made to create both a living countryside and a Sweden that continues to be in the first place when it comes to creating a sustainable future also in the climate and environmental perspective? There's a lot of work ahead of us. It's been a number of hectic weeks. I have no illusions that the coming weeks will be anything but hectic. These are further steps that must be taken. It is further of reforms that are needed to maintain central social functions, maintain Swedish welfare and save what is saved can. We will do what we can to secure Swedish jobs and companies. We've done a lot. But we have a great deal of that journey ahead of us.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-634	Mr President, I would like to It became apparent from Emil Källström's speech that the January parties have done a great deal in this crisis. I already told the Minister for Finance that much of what is happening is good. This concerns the removal of sickness pay, the strengthening of the unemployment fund and the addition of funds to the regions and the local government sector. This is a matter of great urgency at this point. It is about efforts for passenger traffic in Sweden. That, of course, is also important. Where I see that there are shortcomings, it is perhaps primarily about the firm's fixed costs in a situation where they may have lost 90% of revenue but still have high costs. Let me take an example from a small family-owned retail store in Umeå with three employees. They have seen a sharp decline in demand. They have been able to lay off as a result of changes that we have jointly voted for and improved here in Parliament. This applies both to the daughter – who could not have been laid off under the original proposal, but now it can, thanks to the cooperation between us – and the other employees. It will make it easier for them. But they still stand at 53 000 SEK in fixed costs. It goes without saying that this store has little chance of surviving unless something is done. The January parties have come forward with a proposal on costs. If the landlord sets down the rent, the State must pay a partial amount. Unfortunately, however, it has been shown, and also in the case of Umeå, that the landlords are not prepared to do what they are supposed to do in this system. It's a very small system. The government is budgeting for 5 billion. When our neighbours Denmark and Norway do the same, it is 85 billion to lift fixed costs for companies. If we do not do something soon, I am afraid it will lead to mass bankruptcies and unnecessarily high unemployment. The question to Emil Källström is: When is a proposal that really and seriously raises the fixed costs of companies in the short term?
i-89ARpkdLYPasWYYUY2qsh4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the questions! To understand the system now in place and implemented in terms of rent cuts, it was about seeing and supporting something that was already happening to a large extent. A lot of property owners already took such initiatives before this came into place. Discounts and reductions were fixed temporarily. They wanted to keep their tenants. I have noticed that it is very different among different property owners. Some wholly or partly state governments have been quite nifty here. That is totally unacceptable. We have spoken of this in various channels. I also believe that it is extremely short-sighted on the part of the property owner. If this trend continues, it will be the lessee's market for negotiations on rental levels. Jakob Forssmed gave an example. Let me bring you another one. It is true that we would have to look at how this can be broadened. Many companies own their own premises. They have no rent but, on the other hand, heating costs, leasing costs and the like. We are now looking at whether further steps can be taken inspired not least by Denmark and Norway. Then Forssmed asks: When will this come? In the position that I have in this debate, it must be clear once we say a figure, a date or the extent of an initiative. It must then be prepared to be implemented at once. We're not there. If we'd been there, we'd be at a press conference giving that information. The Center Party has been clear that we are inspired by what is being done in the other countries. We see that need, and we follow it forward. I have no further information than to give in this debate other than that we seem to have fully agreed on the problem picture.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-644	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say to the honourable Member that there is no ban on giving information in the Swedish Parliament. You don't have to leave them on a press date. It is good to leave them in this House to the Members, who will eventually decide on the measures that are being presented. That's good. I interpret it as the government, the Liberals and the Center Party working on the issue, because we said Emil Källström. In such cases, it is very gratifying that you are working on this type of proposal. I think it is extremely urgent to bring this forward. This is where the great remaining lifting is to be done precisely for the costs of companies in the short term. In such cases, it is very welcome if we are the government and the cooperation parties.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-647	Mr President, I would like to In this particular case, when I say we are saying, I refer to the fact that my boss in Dagens Nyheter and Dagens Industri said that this is something that the Center Party is pushing for and that we are not only inspired by but want to see put in place. I have noted that other parties have also done so. Jakob Forssmed was one of the people who spoke about it in Ekot yesterday and also the Liberals' Nyamko Sabuni. Several have been out on this issue. It is clear that some form of consensus is forming in Swedish politics. Let's see where it goes. I am not in a position to extend our scope beyond that. A broader one than that is usually communicated together. It's usually press conferences. But who knows, maybe someday it is in Parliament's Chamber that we present those ideas. I also hope that we can have good discussions with both the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. We've had a lot of good conversations so far. I hope we can continue to do so. The consensus that currently exists in Swedish politics is very welcome.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-651	Mr President, I would like to We all worry about loved ones now. We think of those we love who are at risk, we sincerely hope that they will not be infected. We wonder when we will see them again, and we think of those who have already lost their lives in the disease. We are thinking about how many people are going to lose their jobs in the crisis and how many companies are going to end. So we think, feel, grieve and hope. We do it together with billions of other people around our world. Here is the anxiety, fear and frustration about what is not working properly. But there is also the feeling of belonging and solidarity. We help each other, and we become much stronger. A well-functioning welfare society is valuable. This is a time that ends things. It is a time that leads many to rethink and gain new experiences and insights. I believe that the crisis leads to many new political insights. This applies, for example, to the realization that the market does not, on its own, conjure up reserves of medicine. It is the realization of what it means to have fragmented healthcare and care for the elderly that does not stick together due to privatisations and under-financing. It makes society fragile and ineffective, with less ability to face a crisis. But it is also a question of understanding that the tax cuts that have been prioritised before welfare for decades, most recently the abolition of the military tax, have had consequences. Mr President, I would like to I and many others have a great deal of concern about the spread of infection in the care of the elderly. Tax cuts have led to a fragile elderly care with understaffing, stress, part-time work, many fixed-term workers and many without or with short training. All this has been topped with a prize hunt. This is particularly true here in Stockholm, where some ninety companies are active in elderly care. This makes the whole thing difficult to control and the need for action against the spread of infection large. There are examples where you have had as many as 25 different people who have come home to one for two weeks when you have had a great need for care. Staff are struggling and making great efforts, but the conditions are not the best. We in the Left Party have proposed large permanent resource additions to prevent cuts and make investments. We have proposed that all municipalities should be given the task of reducing the number of visits per user in the home care service, in order to prevent the spread of infection. If it requires overstaffing, it should be allowed to do so, and the municipalities should receive compensation for it. We have also proposed that disease control inspections be carried out throughout the care of the elderly and rapid training in disease protection and that corona teams be set up to deal with the infected elderly. Staff should not go between infected and healthy. By protecting the staff, we protect the elderly, and of course everyone should have the necessary protective equipment. It is easy to say but more difficult to achieve, and we have proposed a state investment aid to companies that switch their production to produce protective equipment. We must do everything in our power to bring down the spread of infection in the care of the elderly. Here we believe that there is a lack of action and action. The class society we live in is becoming very clear in the wake of the Corona crisis. We see it when the infection spreads mostly in areas with low incomes, where the overcrowding is large and the underlying health is worse. People with class-related diseases are at risk. We see it on who can work at home and not and on who is there to drive us to work, who cares for the old and sick and who ensures that we can shop at the store and collect our medicines. We see it on who takes care of our children in preschool and school. We see it in the underfunded welfare. We see how privatisations have prevented us from having the necessary stocks or protective clothing we are asking for, as well as having insufficient staffing and too few intensive care places. In a situation like this, it is necessary for the state to act forcefully with the necessary reforms to save jobs and viable businesses. There is broad consensus on this, and that is a good thing in itself. It is good to have a strengthened unemployment fund, which should of course remain in place even after the crisis. The withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal is also a good and necessary effort, because the spread of the disease must prevent s. It is difficult to be at home if you have a monthly salary of SEK 20,000; it is like a strong pressure to go to work even though you may be contagious. In Norway, Karen's Day has been abolished so permanently, because they think it is reasonable that people are home from work if they are sick – regardless of the corona or not. Mr President, I would like to Of course, there should be no dividends when companies take part in state aid. We in the Left Party did this in the Committee on Finance, regarding short-term lay-off, and we got it through. It is not reasonable for taxpayers – the assistant nurse, the welder, the caretaker – to go in with money to the companies, and then the owners take the money out with the other hand. The fact that there were companies that had planned it shows how wrong they have ended up. Although many good and necessary efforts have been made, some crisis measures are still absent. Young people go hungry because high school has moved to distance education and the school dining hall is closed. Too many young only meals a day are gone. An additional study grant should be introduced to ensure that everyone gets food on the table. The possibility of receiving support must be relaxed during the crisis, so that people are not forced to sell their home or car when they have to go to social services and ask for help. Anyone who cannot afford the rent – families with children at risk of being evicted – should not be allowed to be evicted. Like the affected companies, tenants should be able to get help from the state, and an eviction stop should be introduced. The fact that intellectually disabled people with their incredibly poor economy must not retain their remuneration when their daily activities shut down is just a bit incomprehensible. The lack of these particular efforts tells us a lot about who is being listened to and who is not, and it also shows how class society beats. We need emergency support for ordinary people to a much greater extent than we have seen so far. Mr President, I would like to I began by talking about the importance of, and understanding of, the importance of, a strong and coherent welfare. There is now talk of how much the government wants to do in terms of the local government sector, that is, welfare. But let us note that with the sums now mentioned, the cuts in health care, education and care will continue. This year there will be some 15 billion missing and next year some 30 billion. This means continued stress, continued sick leave and missed quality improvements. What those who are working hard in these activities need to hear now is not that the cuts will continue. What they need to hear is that they get the best possible support during the crisis – but also that they will not be left in the lurch when the crisis is over. They need to hear that after this they will face more colleagues, less stress, better working conditions, better wages and better working environment. I believe that there is great popular support for this; just listen to all those who are now praising the efforts being made and the staff who are fighting in health care, but also in preschool and school. So shoot at the resources needed! It's really needed. So let us do what we can to save jobs and viable businesses, but above all to prevent the spread of infection and protect the most vulnerable, such as the elderly! Let us use the insights provided by the crisis, and let us therefore build a stronger welfare society! It is also good for meeting any future crises.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-669	Mr President, I would like to We're in the middle of a serious crisis. It strikes at life and health, and we have staff who do all they can, around the clock, to protect the lives of sick and fragile people. We have a deep respect and gratitude for all those who are contributing to that work right now, and I think that we all in this House feel a great deal of humility in that we should try to do what we can to help that work go as well as it is at all possible. In the Corona crisis, we also see loneliness and isolation as it is for all of us to do what we can to break. It exists in our society as usual, but it exists in a tangible way at this time. It is a time that is at all right to reflect on what we should do better in the future, but the reflection is also here and now – not least with regard to the economic crisis, which has a speed and depth that we have never seen before. People see their life's work blend in front of their eyes, and workplaces that people love risk being broken. People are forced to leave communities and are no longer asked for and seen in the same way as before. They also risk long-term adverse health effects of an increase in unemployment. We know that the financial crisis and its traces in terms of unemployment and exclusion still have a negative impact on human health. What we are doing and seeing today has long-term impact. We now also risk that the entrepreneurship that has carried and carries Sweden will be broken. It is the same entrepreneurship that we now see in action when companies switch their production from cars or trucks to protective equipment. Although swords may not be turned into plowshares, alcohol is converted into hand liquor in our operations. It is this entrepreneurship that risks being destroyed if we do not manage as many companies, jobs and jobs as possible. I would therefore like to begin by saying that much of what the government has done has been good. It has been important to remove sickness pay responsibility and to strengthen the unemployment fund and broaden it so that not least more people will be able to get protection during this time. It has been important to introduce the system of short-term lay-offs, and yesterday it was announced that this will be strengthened. We have been calling for this for a long time, so it is a very welcome message. It's going to mean a lot. We have also been able to act constructively together, and in the Finance Committee we have been able to both propose things that the government has then implemented and amend some of the proposals so that they have improved. In particular, it is a good proposal from the government that companies should be able to have retroactively deferred tax payments; we in the Committee on Finance have been able to bring forward the proposal, in order to secure liquidity earlier in the process, and to reduce the interest on the deferral amount to be paid. It is good and valuable that we have been able to have that cooperation. Having said that, I am afraid that the measures that have been presented so far are disproportionate to the magnitude of this crisis, whether in terms of its speed or its depth. In the world around us, we see premonition figures and a trade decline that we have never seen before. We also see a very fast braking in Sweden. We see it in the notice numbers that the Employment Service presents and also on how many people go there. It is above all cost support that is now needed to lift fixed costs from companies so that they are not forced into bankruptcy or forced to lay off more staff than they may have already done. It is important that it is put in place quickly and that the rental aid system proposed by the government, which has proved to be too small and not really working, is replaced by or supplemented by a system more similar to that of our neighbouring countries. Then we can get better support on the ground to cope with this in the short term so that businesses, jobs and jobs are not broken down. I also think that we can do more in the lay-off system. We can further strengthen the lay-off rate up to 90 per cent and raise the salary ceiling so that more employees are covered. Above all, I have repeatedly pointed out in this House and in the Committee on Finance the difficulty of using a regulatory framework, and above all a rule, whereby companies have to terminate fixed-term employees, consultants, probationary workers and even Samhall people in order to receive lay-off support for their permanent employees. I have tried to listen to the arguments, and so far there has not been a single sustainable argument for why this rule is important in the deep recession that we are now in. It is easy to understand why this rule should be in a normal economic situation. Then it is a company or perhaps an industry that is affected, and then there are completely different opportunities in the labour market from what it is doing right now. That is why it is perfectly reasonable, and the government and parliament should have done so a long time ago, to pause that provision in 2020. It is said that it would have insurmountable consequences and that it is not consistent. But the fact is, it is. The legislation developed in 2014 – the first short-term work system, which is actually dormant and ready to be used – pointed out both in the investigation and the proposal that temporary workers should be included in the type of recession for which the scheme is adapted. And that is exactly the situation we are in now. We can see that those who are being laid off are, above all, temporary workers. They are the ones who have first applied to the Employment Service. It is for them that the government specifically justifies strengthening the unemployment fund. The kind of crisis that we are in now is not a structural crisis or a crisis that is based on economic imbalances, and in such a crisis it should be a priority to try to keep as many jobs and jobs as possible in order for people to get caught up in their jobs and then be able to go back to them. We know that unemployment, no matter how good conversion opportunities are and no matter how many training places there are, takes time to get back. For some, the road is long. Now it becomes unnecessarily long because the state forces companies to do so. They do so with direct reference to this rule. It's just to go into the Swedish Agency for Growth's website and look to understand that this rule forces this out. Sätra Brunn has done it for this reason. The splinter has done it for this reason. Voi has done it for this reason. This is exactly what it looks like on companies after companies. All temporary staff are dismissed because they perceive this to be the requirement of the legislator, and then they leave other staff on short notice. What do other countries do? After the financial crisis, their lay-off systems were changed to include temporary workers. It was done in Germany, France, Belgium, Luxembourg and Austria to see that the fixed-term workers, the temporary workers, are already vulnerable and that changes are needed. Sweden chooses to do the opposite. We also need to get other reforms in place now. I think we need to do something more to ensure that health professionals are both provided with protective equipment and are able to cope with their schedules throughout this whole crisis cycle. We have said: let us ensure that those employers who are prepared to lend to health care staff who are trained but are currently working in other sectors receive a cost recovery of 120 %. Allow the employee to receive 80 percent of his usual salary and also his new salary from the care so that it becomes profitable to make this shift. Then we believe that we can quickly get more health professionals in place. We also need to see that civil society may have its biggest tasks for a long time right now in helping vulnerable people while at the same time their revenues are folding. We must do more here. Here the government needs to do more and ensure that we get started a work that goes through all the measures that have been taken so far so that they also work for civil society. We can see that this is not the case now. For example, the credit guarantees require that the business is a company and not a foundation or organisation even if it is engaged in an economic activity. We must do much more here. Mr President, I would like to We need to do more at this point. Otherwise, there is a great risk that there is far less than we would like to restart eventually.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-688	Mr President, I would like to Every day nurses, doctors, nurses and carers now struggle to handle the corona virus. Now that it was Easter leave, many of us normally go home to the family, and the children's grandmother, grandfather, and grandfather were allowed to stay at home and take care of the contact in other ways. Many people experience isolation, social distance and cannot live a normal life. This is a health crisis and a health crisis which also has major economic consequences. It is about people who lose their jobs and are thrown into unemployment. It is about entrepreneurs who see their dream of life, their life's work, being beaten to pieces because no customers come to the store anymore or call and ask for a service. Mr President, I would like to Many of us remember the 1990s crisis well. I went to school myself, so I don't remember the crisis at close range, but where I grew up in southern Småland it was clearly present. Many of the companies that have existed for a long time experienced extreme difficulties, and people suffered unemployment. In my own family, my mother became unemployed during the 1990s crisis. What we are seeing now risks becoming just as serious as the 1990s crisis, namely that people who normally have no difficulty getting jobs will no longer have a job to go to. Those who normally find it difficult to get a job have an even lower way into the labour market and into the community of the workplace, and they find it very difficult to get anything to do at all. Mass unemployment and hundreds of thousands of bankruptcies are about broken dreams, about people who have started businesses and see their life's work disappear, about people who dream of a job, about people who do not lower have a job to come to and about people who already have a job but get rid of it and will not come back. They are excluded from early retirement and are excluded from the labour market and will never come back. Unemployment is dangerous. Unemployment weakens a society, makes people weaker and makes us collectively weaker. Mr President, I would like to That is why, in recent weeks, we have presented crisis packages following crisis packages. Yesterday the sixth was presented, if I have counted correctly. We don't do it in political conflict. We do so in broad political agreement. Now is the time for political gathering. It's not time for political bickering. And we do it because we want to secure jobs, avoid mass unemployment and avoid hundreds of thousands of bankruptcies. We know that unemployment makes a society weaker and poorer. We are now reducing employers' contributions, ensuring that the state takes responsibility for sickness pay and introduces an even more generous system of short-term lay-off. This allows people to go down in working time and still keep their jobs, as the state accounts for a large part of the wage cost. We spend money on municipalities and regions, so that doctors, nurses and nurses do not have to leave their jobs when a Corona crisis is going on around the corner. We're strengthening the unemployment fund. People who have temporary employment and who have not previously been able to qualify for unemployment benefit should now be able to get society's support and feel secure, at a time of crisis, at a time of anxiety. Mr President, I would like to The budget that we are now dealing with, which will end up on the table of Parliament and which we are now debating, is a very good budget. It is a budget that ensures that we secure jobs, that we can fight unemployment and that we can avoid bankruptcies. It's good. But we will have to do more. A number of industries have extremely serious problems. A number of industries are experiencing a blunder in demand and a blunder in customers that they have never seen before. This means that we will have to do more. Countries in our world on which we depend – the USA, Germany and the whole of Europe – have problems and are at risk of major problems, not only now but also at the next stage. Then a small and open economy like the Swedish will be hit hard. When Americans no longer want to buy Swedish products and when Germans no longer want to buy from the Swedish industry, it risks breaking directly into people's everyday lives and means unemployment. Politics must be prepared for this. I hope what I'm describing doesn't turn into truth. I hope that the outside world will recover and that the outside world will want to buy Swedish products and have the ability to do so. But we need to prepare for a scenario where this does not happen. We must prepare for the long-term, deep and lasting crisis. It is therefore a good thing that politicians, regardless of colour, have been saving in the barns for many years so that we can now use the money in the barns to face the crisis. That's exactly why we've been saving. Many of us have had to respond to criticism. It has been said: Why do you save? It is precisely about us being able to use that money now, to secure Swedish jobs, to avoid hundreds of thousands of bankruptcies and to ensure that people can feel safe in a very troubled time. Mr President, I would like to It is also about seeing the many small and growing companies and entrepreneurs who up until Corona dreamed about and thought that they would become the 2020s Spotify but who now see that the money is not there. The faith of the future has turned into pessimism. You no longer feel that the company you have dreamed of and the future plans you had can become a reality. We must also see them and make efforts for them, so that those who can become companies of the future can also become the companies that will build Sweden and our welfare in the future. Mr President, I would like to I think that Swedish politics is showing itself from its very best side in these times. It is an arena where we listen to each other, where different parties come up with different proposals on what we can do and run different types of proposals and agendas and where we together and together try to make the proposals better. We in Parliament's Finance Committee have on several occasions made the proposals better and more adapted to the crisis that we are currently facing. This is how Swedish politics acts at its very best. We respect each other. We do not look down on other parties because they are putting forward proposals that we do not like or believe in ourselves, but we listen respectfully to each other and see opportunities in the proposals that are being put forward. I welcome the proposals that are highlighted and that revitalise the discussion of what Sweden can do at this stage to secure jobs. This is good for Swedish politics. Since there are many different proposals on the table, the proposals that are becoming reality are also improving. Mr President, I would like to What is important for the Liberals is that we do what is necessary to secure jobs, to avoid bankruptcies and to avoid mass unemployment.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-709	Mr President and Mats Persson! I have noticed that in the last few days we have both identified the need for increased support for businesses. Support is needed to lift fixed costs in a much clearer way than the government's proposal and the January partners' proposal on rents. They are basically based on a benevolent landlord. Even if you have one, it is relatively limited. My first question to Mats Persson is therefore whether he can say something further about processes to get such a proposal in place. Unfortunately, this crisis is a matter of urgency. Every day and every week plays a role in bankruptcies and moves unemployment forward. I see, like Mats Persson, that together we have been able to do things. We have listened to each other and have been able to improve proposals in the Committee on Finance. I am thinking not least of some of the companies that Mats Persson highlighted, tech companies, highly qualified consultancy companies and other companies, which in some cases actually do not have collective agreements. It's not always because they haven't wanted it – I think Mats Persson and I agree that collective agreements are good. But they simply have not had time, or there have been no collective agreements adapted to their situation. They now have very limited lay-offs compared to those with collective agreements. For example, they have to lay off 70% of employees and have to reduce working hours equally for all employees. However, the number of jobs employed in different buildings can be much more flexible. I wonder whether Mats Persson is prepared in the Committee on Finance, together with me and others, to change those rules so that we have much more flexibility also for companies that do not have collective agreements. They should not have to lay off staff that are important for their future, but instead be able to keep them and lay off them. Unfortunately, today's rules are counterproductive.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-714	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed and I fully agree on the importance of short-term lay-off and that companies without a collective agreement should also be able to make use of it. In the debate, there have sometimes been calls for collective agreements to benefit from short-term lay-off. I'm glad that's not what we're going to do now. All companies, whether or not they have collective agreements, are covered by this. I am prepared to discuss everything in Parliament's Finance Committee. As I said before, we respect each other and listen to good arguments. It should be borne in mind that the entire legislation on short-term lay-off is actually part of the Swedish model. It is actually a tripartite agreement between politics, workers and employers. It is based at the next stage on agreements between workers and employers. Otherwise, we don't have a working short-term lay-off system. You have to respect that at this point. It has also been an advantage. We now see at what incredible speed agreements are signed for short-term lay-off and how many are now covered by it. When you talk to companies in a lot of different industries, you're struck by--I'm almost surprised--how many people are now using short-term lay-off as a way to reduce their costs and face this crisis. This shows the advantage of the Swedish model. When three parties agree, it goes quickly, and then it happens forcefully. In these discussions it must be borne in mind that it is based on the fact that there are agreements at the bottom. That's what makes this possible. We handle this in a constructive climate of conversation. Of course we can discuss it.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-719	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mats Persson for his reply and for the invitation to try to do something about it. However, I note that the government and the January parties are now going to produce a new bill, and so far you have not announced that you are going to make any changes to the rules at all beyond the increased level of lay-off. It is deeply unfortunate at this point. This risks leading to more redundancies than necessary. With regard to the system for those who do not have collective agreements, I think it should be, but a crisis is not the time to hammer that nail in properly. This is about trying to save jobs and not ruin the future prospects of those companies. Can Mats Persson say something more about what he or the government is prepared to do? I think that would be welcome for businesses. The situation is strange. If they had been in two different buildings, the flexibility would have been vastly greater than if they were sitting together in an office landscape. This is an oddity that exists in the legislation.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-723	Mr President, I would like to This system is very good and is used by a lot of people. The system is used by more than we thought and could dream of. It's very good because it shows that it works. Now we are doing it even more generously and thus reducing the costs for companies even more. For a normal company in Sweden with employees with an average salary, it is about a halved cost compared to today. I believe that this will mean that even more companies will make use of this. That would be very good. As I said, this is based on a tripartite agreement between policy and the social partners. You have to respect that. However, we must be prepared to discuss any changes that can be made that will make it more adaptable to the current situation. We'll see where it lands.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-726	Mr President, I would like to The Corona crisis has struck all over the world. People's lives, health and finances are at stake. We are faced with a situation that none of us has ever experienced. In Sweden, the economic consequences are very great. Varslen has grown at a record pace, and many companies have rapidly lost their entire revenue. People have lost their livelihood overnight, and small businesses have seen their lives lost. Mr President, I would like to Drastic times require drastic action. The government hasn't been handcuffed. From day one, we've been crystal clear. Money must never be a limiting factor in securing health care and limiting the spread of infection. Municipalities and regions will be reimbursed for the health costs of the virus. Large rescue packages have been developed. They provide companies with the means to overcome the crisis. More people will have their finances secured by an enlarged and expanded unemployment fund. Short-term lay-offs, reduced employers' contributions, support for small businesses, more training places and green jobs are some of the measures that have been taken to alleviate the impact of the crisis on individuals. Mr President, I would like to The security of a strong welfare has rarely been as evident as it is in these days. Our health care is nothing without all the people who work there. Rightly, we are now praising those who work day and night to save lives and ease pain. But when the crisis is over, it is not with applause that we should show our gratitude. Instead, we do so by working purposefully and in the long term to give them better working conditions and more colleagues. We have long known that women wear themselves out in health care and care. These are professions with low wages and poor working conditions. We have known that a high turnover of staff means shortcomings in quality. Looking ahead, we must learn from the cracks that the pandemic has exposed. The money that is now coming to the country's municipalities and regions is intended to secure welfare so that it is in place for all of us, not just to make it through the crisis, but for a long time to come. This long-term approach is important, and it is good that we can now tell that municipalities and regions are receiving money both here and now and in the coming years. In addition to welfare, there is yet another sector that receives long-term news, namely the media. We are raising media support for a future in which local newspapers will continue to hold those in power accountable. Mr President, I would like to There will be some time after this. It will be a time when the economy will be built up, when new jobs will be secured and the preparedness for future crises will be built up. The world after Corona will not be the same. It's up to us to make it better. When we help each other, we can fundamentally change society. The economic crisis needs to be met with a policy of hope and faith in the future. Green investment will reduce emissions, create new jobs and give everyone an opportunity to be part of the necessary transition. This is done with a policy that equalises gaps and gives every child the right conditions to grow up to safe adults. There will come a time after the crisis. But we know that it will take time and require a lot of each one. In the midst of the difficult situation, solidarity in our country is encouraging. It is the grandchild who calls Grandma for an extra time, the nursing students who immediately signed up to go into the care and those who shop for the older couple on the floor below. When it comes to it, Sweden shows up from its very best side.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-733	Mr President, I would like to Karolina Forest! It's always interesting to listen to you, I think. You painted a nice vision at the end. I think many people can share it and feel that together we can work for it. I also think that we have done so in many respects. The government has done a lot. Much has been good, important and necessary in the crisis. This applies not least to the fact that resources have been provided for health care and care, so that they feel that there are resources to be found to do what is necessary at the moment. I have a specific question. It is a matter of the government insisting that, in order to obtain short-term leave support from the public, companies should terminate their temporary employees, such as consultants, probationary workers and fixed-term employees. This puts employees against employees. I have tried to get arguments for why this is a reasonable order. I've got a little different. One has been that it is only the Christian Democrats who think this. However, this was not said by Karolina Skog, but by someone else. I have then replied that the Institute for Economic Development, almost all European countries and the OECD, also think this way. Today, I heard the argument that I am in favour of a new approach to short-term lay-offs, including temporary workers, or at least not being forced to resign. This approach was already found in the 2012 study and later in the proposal that was presented in 2014. It would have been possible to choose to start from it and to turn up the level of lay-off in legislation that is dormant and that is intended to be used in a deep recession. Now the government chose to work on another legislation that is more adapted to a normal economic situation and has made some adjustments to this legislation to adapt it to the crisis. My question remains. Why is it so important, in a deep recession, to force companies to lay off staff in order to benefit from public support?
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-738	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Jakob Forssmed and the other colleagues in the Committee on Finance for the incredibly constructive work we are doing there. I would specifically like to thank Jakob Forssmed for examining with such sharpness the proposals we are making. To tell you the truth, the proposals have largely been produced at a much higher rate than the one we usually have. It has not been referred as usual. Nor has it been prepared and rubbed as is customary. It will therefore be a great responsibility for the members of the committee to read carefully, to ask critical questions and to put us against the wall. Jakob Forssmed has. This issue is important. It is a shortcoming that is worth looking at and discussing further in the future. When the crisis began and when we began to understand that it went badly for Swedish companies, it was important to be quick. The government then chose to go forward with a framework for short-term lay-offs that was just adapted for a high level of compensation for a faster crisis and get this out quickly. Now we need to look forward and try to understand what the crisis will look like. Will it last for a long time? It may give reason to reevaluate things. I hope that we can continue to discuss this in committee in the same constructive spirit as we have done so far.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-741	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Karolina Skog is prepared to discuss this. I've been pointing this out for weeks. Yesterday, the January parties were on a press conference and said that they would produce new legislation. The announcement came: These rules remain. When I talked to the Prime Minister about this, he stood here and said: We are prepared to review all the rules. Obviously, there are reasons why this rule cannot be paused in 2020, reasons that no one has managed to present in this House. At some point you have to do that if you choose to keep a rule that actually drives people out into unemployment. I have pointed out company examples of company examples where temporary workers are now being laid off. The government itself has justified the changes in the unemployment fund because it is precisely the temporary employees who are driven out first in unemployment. The damage is partly already done, but you can partially repair it, or at least make an argument for why this rule is important to maintain.
i-4696fbf1faaad0d1-744	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed is right that we have presented changes in short-term lay-off. Many people are reviewing this regulatory framework and are proposing improvements. From what I have heard, it has been extremely clear from representatives of smaller companies around Sweden that they have said that the most important thing for them is to get the lay-off rate up. They have given it as a priority, and it has been the governing body of the work that has been done. That change has been made. It's about having your ear to the ground. That doesn't mean we're closing the door to all the other changes. But I think it was a wise thing to make that change, because so many smaller companies say that this is what they need here and now. We could introduce it this week. I think that was a good priority.
