i-8xdhbHwGR3eS3eq1T36YRY	Madam President, I would like According to Chapter 13. Section 1 of the form of government, the Constitutional Committee shall review the performance of the duties of the ministers and the administration of government matters. When there are reasons for this, but at least once a year, the committee shall, in accordance with Chapter 13. Section 2 The form of government announces to the Riksdag what it has found worthwhile to pay attention to in its review. In this report, the committee deals with certain general, administrative reviews of government work. The report covers nine dossiers, some of which are more comprehensive. I will go over the dossiers very briefly and highlight certain observations made by the committee. My party colleague, Ida Drougge, will later in the debate deepen some of the dossiers. The first case concerns the turn of the government in 2018 – 2019. There is a record of this, but it does not give cause for any statement by the committee. The second review concerns the composition of the government. Here, the committee has continued to monitor developments in the number of officials in the Government Office. The third point concerns the government protocols. Here, the committee has reviewed sub-protocols from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture. The committee assumes that the government will take the necessary planning measures to allow the time between announcement and entry into force to be at least four weeks and only in exceptional cases to be less than two weeks. We have also looked at certain administrative matters that have been dealt with at the Departments of Education and Culture. They don't give any reason for a statement. The fifth case concerns the powers of a transitional government. We could probably spend all day on this, because it is of course constitutionally interesting and social policy very important. The outgoing government after the 2018 elections served as a transitional government for almost four months, which is an unusually long period. The questions raised in the review concern a possible need to clarify the principles of the powers of a transitional government and whether the practices and guidelines developed are adapted to a situation in which the formation of government is delayed. In order to obtain an overall picture of how the transitional government exercised its powers and whether this changed over time, this year's review has been linked to a number of questions concerning the actual behaviour of the transitional government. Madam President, I would like One overall conclusion is that the transitional government was restrictive in deciding on government matters and that the amount of the case was stable over time. I would like to draw particular attention to a few issues which the committee is concerned with. The first concerns employment matters. The committee says that employment matters without political implications should be decided by a transitional government after one or several weeks, but in the case of Heads of Government, the government should be restrictive. Regular appointments of major political importance should be avoided. The committee has also looked at the government's actions in the context of EU and other international cooperation. In this context, the committee argues that a transitional government should be able to continue to act to a large extent in the way it has done. In this context, I would also like to raise questions about the power of control. I recommend that the constitutionally interested person read this section. The committee's review shows that the transitional government did not answer any interpellations or questions, nor was there a topical debate. Here the committee writes that although the starting point should still be that a transitional government should not normally answer interpellations or questions, some modifications may have to be made. Sitting a transitional government for a long period of time increases its room for manoeuvre; it is natural. However, the committee believes that such room for manoeuvre should also be placed under the parliamentary control. Item 6 deals with supplementary amending budgets. Here the committee has examined proposals with draft supplementary amending budgets that have been tabled since autumn 2014, when the requirement for special grounds for supplementary amending budgets was introduced into the parliamentary order. The committee has also examined authorities with boards of directors. Here the committee argues that if the government has decided that an authority should be a board of directors, the board must also be given good opportunities to carry out its task. In a board of directors, it is the board that is the authority's top management, and the board is accountable to the government for the agency's activities. It is therefore important that the political leadership of the ministries has regular and close contact with the government boards. The committee's review shows that there have been only a few occasions that the political leadership has met the entire board of directors at one authority. Given the responsibility of the Board of Directors, the Committee sees the reasons why such meetings should take place more regularly. We also stress the importance of greater participation by the Chairman of the Board in meetings with the Department's political leadership alongside the annual government dialogue. Finally, we have examined the government's control of government regulations. The review shows that not all departments have a procedure for verifying the obligation of the authorities to provide lists and that there are no procedures to ensure that authorities with regulatory powers are made aware of this obligation. The committee assumes that the measures deemed necessary will be taken. In the last point, we have looked at the government's control of the Commission's powers to adopt delegated acts. The review shows that these have generally been jointly prepared. In almost every five cases, however, this has not happened, and the committee stresses the importance of these acts being jointly prepared. Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee hereby reports to the Riksdag the results of the review presented in this report under Chapter 13. Section 2 the form of government.
i-b14941aa535515ba-23	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the KU's so-called autumn review, the KU10. It contains several different parts. Some checks are recurrent, others are carried out at intervals and some are due to something special that has occurred. Our observations are very much also advice and guidelines for the future. We are the so-called good accountant, who says that perhaps in the future we should think about this. Today, I intend to limit myself to two subjects in the autumn review: the powers of the transitional government and the authorities with boards of directors. After the 2018 elections, the Swedish government was subjected to a test that it has not passed since it was introduced in 1974. We can essentially say that the form of government passed this test. Sweden worked and finally got a new government. The government formation took a very long time, four months. Rules and traditions regarding what a transitional government should do were tested in a completely different way than before by the fact that the formation of a government took four months instead of normally perhaps two weeks. Simplified, one can say that the main rule of a transitional government has been: Do as little as possible, but the country must work. After all, it is a new government that has democratic support in the newly elected parliament that will exercise power, and then the country will be administered in the meantime. We have examined what the government did during these four months and can conclude that the government essentially complied with this rule. However, it can be said that there were larger and larger chafing wounds when it was prolonged. Sweden has relations with other powers, authorities need to have managements and so on. The longer the time passes, the more a government will have to decide. What is important is that a government, when it takes more power, also seeks support in the Riksdag, so that there is parliamentary support for the measures it then takes. The second part is that to the extent that a government starts to take greater responsibility, it must also be able to be subject to the parliamentary control power, i.e. answer interpellations and questions – the normal elements of the control power. This is our advice for the future. The government that sat tried to follow the routine, which was intended for the normal government formation process in two weeks' time. When it lasts over time, we can say that there is probably a legitimate space to start doing a little more, but then the control power must also work. As regards the government's governance of government agencies with boards, we can conclude that there is probably a risk that there will be a difference between theory and practice. It is never particularly fortunate that those who are theoretically responsible for something before the government are actually passed by by by the government having direct contact with the agency's official management. There we say that the board should be represented as much as possible in the dialogue with the government, because otherwise you risk that the governance model is broken by the government when you go directly to the official management. With these words, I would like to leave the autumn review.
i-b14941aa535515ba-33	Madam President, I would like In the autumn review, the Constitutional Committee will report on the change of government after the 2018 elections. I myself was not a Member of Parliament during that time, but followed the process through media reporting. I would like to say that it was a lengthy process that caused some concern in the country. After diligent work and to the relief of many, the Speaker finally made a proposal to the Prime Minister, who was accepted by the Riksdag. However, the road there was long and crooked. Despite several discussions with the party leaders, the Parliament rejected the first proposals to appoint Prime Minister. In the third attempt, on 18 January 2019, Stefan Löfven was appointed Prime Minister despite previous rejections. The fact that Sweden's political landscape has changed during this time became very clear, and it was clear that the importance of traditional block politics has decreased. In several places voices were raised that spoke of the formation of an unholy alliance. A betrayal of voters who voted in favour of one policy but received another, some felt; others felt that the cross-block agreements entered into were necessary for the country to be governed. Regardless of what you think on the substance of the matter, the matter has been handled in accordance with the rule book. Nor does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have any objection to the way in which the change of government took place. Madam President, I would like The prolonged formation of government meant that established practices were subjected to trials. The only formal limitation of competence for a transitional government is that it may not decide on extra elections to the Riksdag. However, some additional limitations are found in a memorandum from the Council of State Committee. According to it, a transitional government should only take decisions on current cases and those whose decisions cannot be postponed without significant problems. The Government can also make decisions on matters where there is a great deal of political consensus in the Riksdag. A transitional government does not normally respond to questions and interpellations from Members of Parliament, and any current debates are not held in plenary. This was also the case during the period during which Stefan Löfven led the transitional government. Madam President, I would like According to the committee, the starting point should remain that a transitional government should not, as a rule, answer interpellations and questions. However, if a transitional government operates for a long time, its room for manoeuvre increases, and more qualified decisions may need to be taken. In such a situation, according to the Constitutional Committee, even a transitional government should in one way or another be subject to parliamentary control. It should then be purely factual information requested from Members of Parliament, that is, not the political opinion of the transitional government in a particular area. Priority should be given to such questions in the form of written questions. Madam President, I would like The Government has submitted seven proposals with draft supplementary amending budgets since 1 September 2014. When presenting draft supplementary amending budget, the Government shall state the specific reasons on which it is based. Examples of specific reasons may be changing economic conditions due to unexpected economic developments or unforeseen events that, according to the Government's assessment, require rapid action. Special reasons may also be that a newly-responsive government does not have time to submit proposals for a change of policy in the budget bill, for example because of a lengthy formation of government. The requirement for specific reasons is aimed at maintaining the principle of a full and comprehensive budget. It is therefore important for the government to follow this principle. In all the supplementary amending budgets examined by the Constitutional Committee, the Government has given specific reasons. The Finance Committee and later the Riksdag have in all cases supported the Government's proposals. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the importance of the need for specific reasons to maintain the principle of full and comprehensive budgetary management. Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has also reviewed the government's governance of board authorities. In a board of directors, the board is responsible to the government. The Board also plays an important role in the government's follow-up of the agency's activities and in assessing the agency's performance. It is important for the government to clarify its expectations of boards and the aspects of their assignments that are prioritised for the Board to be given the opportunity to carry out its mission. For this to work, it is necessary that the Government informs the Board of Directors of the intention of the Government through regular and close contact with the administrative boards. Otherwise, it will be difficult for the board to be the authority's top management and accountable to the government. Madam President, I would like The review carried out by the Constitutional Committee shows that the political leadership has only met with the government board on a few occasions during the period under review. The review has also shown that the annual agency dialogue often takes place without the presence of the Chairman of the Board. It has given reason for the committee to point out that there may be reasons why the Chairman of the Board also participates in these meetings, depending on what is to be discussed. The review also shows that there are cases where heads of agencies are board members of other authorities. This is usually something that should be avoided as far as possible in order to avoid conflict of loyalty and conflict of interests. If, however, there is reason to appoint a head of authority as a member of another authority, the reasons for this should be stated, which in all cases we have examined except two. It is my hope that the review by the Constitutional Committee will lead to reasons being given in all such cases in the future.
i-b14941aa535515ba-49	Madam President, I would like In this autumn's review of the duties of the ministers and the handling of government matters, the Constitutional Committee's usual focus is on certain general and administrative reviews. Of the nine reviews carried out by the KU during the autumn, I would now like to focus on those concerning authorities with boards of directors. According to the form of government, the government governs the Reich and is responsible to the Riksdag. Decision-making in the government takes place collectively. Collective decision-making also includes the right to give directives to managing authorities. In its time in the early 1970s, the Committee considered that collective decision-making in the government was best in line with the Swedish system of independent agencies. There and then the road was chosen not to apply ministerial rule, that is, the right of a minister to decide government matters. How, then, does the government's governance of the state administrative authorities work? It is a recurring issue for the Constitutional Committee. And this autumn, after the spring's review of the government's governance of Försäkringskassan, we have chosen, among other things, to take a closer look at the government's management structure. Madam President, I would like According to the Authority Regulation, an authority may be managed by a Head of Authority, a Board of Directors or a Board. The KU's review has revealed that 39 out of 340 government agencies are so-called board authorities, where the board is thus accountable to the government. These 39 agencies include large authorities such as Sida, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Public Employment Service and the Swedish Transport Administration. The issue of an authority's governance is a strategic governance issue for the government and has been subject to periodic investigations and reviews. The Government Office has developed the work with the Board of Directors, and the Government Office's guidelines on the choice of governance for agencies indicate that authorities with a comprehensive financial responsibility in terms of budget coverage or significant impact on other sectors of society should be led by a board. The KU's review shows that it can well be questioned whether the current administrative authorities have sufficient conditions to assume the authority's responsibility to the government that is assumed. In most cases, there is a lack of regular and close contact between the political leadership of the ministries and the government boards. Although it is clear from the guidelines that political leadership should be encouraged to meet the entire board of authorities annually, this has only happened on a few occasions during the year the KU reviewed. Madam President, I would like The fact that the Authority's top management does not have a dialogue with the political leadership creates several problems. The idea is to prevent the board from becoming dependent on receiving information passed on by the head of authority. This is particularly important in terms of the Agency's activities and performance. Similarly, the follow-up of the board's perception of how the Head of the Authority performs his/her work is neglected in the absence of dialogue. Some of the review cases that KU has spent a lot of time on in recent years relate to high-profile matters in the Board of Directors' agencies Försäkringskassan, Svenska Kraftnät and Transportstyrelsen. The cases have raised questions about the extent to which the respective Chairman of the Board has been involved in the agency's activities and results. There is therefore reason for the government to reconsider the issue of government governance. As long as the administrative authorities remain in place, the Board must be given good opportunities to carry out its task. A minimum in this context should be that the guidelines and memos drawn up in the Government Office should also be complied with.
i-b14941aa535515ba-59	Madam President, I would like Just over a year ago, we stood here with a result. We had a new government, and there was an end to presidential rounds and coffee. Never before has Sweden had a transitional government for as long as after the 2018 elections. The parliamentary situation was unclear, and the whole of last autumn consisted mainly of countless press conferences where each party leader had to give his views on the matter over and over again. Madam President, I would like Every autumn, the Constitutional Committee examines procedures and working methods in the Government Office. It is about seeing how the government treats matters and whether it does so in a way that is consistent with the demands made. Part of this year's review has naturally consisted of looking at the powers of a transitional government. It is important that the country also has a government in an unclear parliamentary situation, because the world around us does not stop. Decisions may need to be taken urgently. And when a government formation drags on, as the last one did for us here in Sweden, it is also reasonable that a temporary transitional government can make more decisions as more decisions are likely to become more urgent and can no longer be postponed. Madam President, I would like Part of the parliamentary power of control is the possibility for Members to ask questions and interpellations and to debate in the Chamber. It is an important function that gives Parliament the opportunity to obtain information and debate, and it acts as a control of the work of the government and its ministers. During the transitional government's time, no interpellations or questions were answered. Nor were there any debates at which ministers took part. In the review, we agree that the starting point should be a continued restriction. However, when a transitional government sits for a longer period, there may be reason for questions of a more factual nature to be answered – i.e. when it is not the political positions of the transitional government that Members are asking for. Madam President, I would like Another part of the review concerns the government's control of government regulations. Some of our authorities have the right to issue regulations, i.e. rules that affect the lives of individuals and sometimes also the finances of municipalities. It is therefore important that the Government and the Ministries are aware of this year's new regulations. In this part of the review, we in the committee note that some departments do not have a routine to check that the authorities have left their annual list. We have also noted that there are sometimes no procedures to ensure that authorities with regulatory powers are made aware of this obligation if necessary. The review has also revealed that some authorities have not submitted a list at all or that it has been submitted after the deadline for delivery. In addition, an authority which had issued regulations has not been aware that it is obliged to submit its own list of regulations in force to the Government. Instead, the Authority believed that the list provided by another authority each year included its own authority's regulations. It is, of course, desirable for regulatory authorities to be made aware of their obligation to submit an annual list and that the departments have procedures in place to check that this is done. Madam President, I would like The last part of this year's review, which I would like to highlight, and which previous speakers from the committee have mentioned, is that relating to authorities with boards of directors. We note that several measures have been taken to develop the work with the Board of Directors. Among other things, a guide has been produced on the government's governance of government agencies, and this is positive. It is important that all authorities are given good opportunities to carry out their duties and that the authorities' top management is given good opportunities to assume their responsibilities for their activities. It is therefore important that there is regular and close contact between the departments and the administrative boards, involving all the members of the board and not just the chairman.
i-b14941aa535515ba-72	Madam President, I would like An essential part of KU's work is scrutiny. We devote autumn, and summer to the office, to examining the administrative and more institutional part of the government's work. This time of year we usually come up with a report and talk about what we have come up with. And in the spring – although it has gone on a whole year before that – we are reviewing the individual ministers' actions and sounds based on various KU notifications submitted by the members of parliament. So it is now the autumn review that we are going to report to the House. It is a solid work – 800 pages. And then all the work the office does alongside, so to speak, is not visible in that pulp. I have to say that without the extremely thorough work of the office, we would never have been able to do this. In many respects, we account for what the office has given us, and for that we are grateful. Nevertheless, there is much that we individual members of the KU have got into, and it sounds like we have the same script because we have the same script, Madam President. We are in complete agreement. For five years, the KU has been working without party political pretence and is conducting a strict legal, constitutional review of the government's actions and actions. Today we present such administrative and institutional perspectives, such as a presentation of the turn of the government 2018– 2019, review of government protocols from 2018, administrative matters, proposals for supplementary amending budgets, government governance of authorities with boards and government control of government regulations. Of course, in particular, we have looked at the way in which the transitional government manages its mission for almost four months. As has been said before, including by the Vice-President, this was a test of the work of the 1974 constitutional fathers. Was our constitution and government form for this test under completely new conditions? The result is that yes, it held in what we have now examined and yes, the government did essentially what the Constitution expected. That's something big considering it was pretty turbulent four months. All 19 government meetings and the approximately 1 400 government affairs decided at the meetings have been reviewed, in particular by the Registry. One overall conclusion is that the transitional government was restrictive in deciding on government matters and that the volume of the case was broadly stable over time. As regards the transitional government's budget proposal, the KU has no objection to the principles developed for its formulation. Nor should announcements be presented as finalized if the accounts can in any way be perceived as party political and lead to a discussion in the Riksdag. As regards employment matters without political implications, the committee believes that these should be decided by a transitional government after some or a few weeks. In the case of Heads of Government, however, a transitional government should typically be restrictive. In the first instance, extensions of previously decided appointments or temporary appointments should be considered. Regular appointments of greater political importance, such as executives, should be avoided, according to the Constitutional Committee. As far as EU and other international cooperation are concerned, a transitional government should be able to continue to act to a large extent in the way it has been. As regards the power of control, the review shows that the transitional government did not answer any interpellations or questions. In fact, there was no topical debate either. Although the starting point should continue to be that a transitional government should not, as a rule, answer interpellations and questions may, according to the committee, have to be made. If a transitional government sits for a long period of time, its room for manoeuvre increases, and such increased room for manoeuvre must be subject to the parliamentary power of control. There are always limitations to the powers of a transitional government. Pure factual data should be subject to parliamentary control. A Member of Parliament should therefore be able to call for an answer on the basis of facts. The limitations of the powers of a transitional government are few in relation to certain case groups, and we would like to highlight European issues in particular. As regards these, questions should also be asked about measures already taken and considerations taken. The same applies to other case groups when a transitional government has had to act and make decisions in cases that cannot be said to have been of a purely routine nature. In this case, the questions should be put in the form of written questions in order to avoid politicisation, which an interpellation could well lead to. Otherwise, Madam President, we would like to report our review report. We're not so proud of it. We are also proud of both the government and the parliament, which passed such a difficult period.
i-b14941aa535515ba-85	Madam President, I would like According to the form of government, the Constitutional Committee is to review the performance of the duties and administration of the ministers at least once a year and inform the Riksdag of what we have found and what is worth paying attention. Much has already been said on the subject, and there is probably none of what has been said that I cannot fully support. However, I would like to raise two points that have already been raised here, but they still deserve another word. One of the issues is recurring in the committee's reviews, one of which is of course much more rare – the formation of government in 2018 – 2019, which was well a challenging period to say the least. It may well be said that a better stress test of our democracy and parliamentarism would not have been able to fantasize together. But it worked. The end is good, all good, and we are working on as usual. In the Chamber, the committee points out that several constitutions have been announced by the government less than four weeks before entry into force and in many cases even less than two weeks' margin. The committee believes that already four weeks is very tight if individuals and authorities are to have the opportunity to set up after the forthcoming changes. Of course, this is particularly important when it comes to rules that impose charges on individual citizens. In the committee's questions to the departments concerned, we have been given reasonable explanations for the late announcements, for example that it was important that certain regulations should enter into force as soon as possible in order to avoid burdensome administrative consequences both for the responsible authority and for the municipality and for individuals and that certain changes, such as those relating to school activities, had to come into force in time to enable schools to plan their activities. The committee has found these explanations reasonable, but we nevertheless assume that the government will take the necessary planning measures to allow the time between announcement and entry into force to be at least four weeks and only in exceptional cases less than two weeks. Here the government certainly has a lesson to do, and so do we, by constantly monitoring and monitoring. Madam President, I would like So to the more unusual errands. All the turns of the government are well described in the report. I could imagine that this writing is more thrilling reading this year than it has done in many years, and I recommend reading to the interested one. It is, however, the examination and discussion of the powers of a transitional government that are most interesting. After the 2018 elections, the outgoing government had to act as a transitional government for an unusually long period. Never in modern times has it taken so long: four months against normal two to three weeks. The questions raised in the review concern a possible need to clarify the principles of the powers of a transitional government and whether the practices and guidelines developed are adapted to the length of government formation. Of course, we do not want it to do so in the future, but if it does, will our methods work? All government meetings and affairs decided at the meetings have been reviewed. The general feeling that I, as a member of the committee and the EU Board, have is that the transitional government was restrictive in deciding on government matters. It was ongoing cases that were handled, as well as cases that could not resist without significant inconvenience. It was also done in transparency and with frequent contacts between the Riksdag and the Government. We can therefore conclude that, for governance to work, the concept of running business is, in fact, required to have a rather broad interpretation and meaning. The committee formulates the conclusion well when we say that a variety of situations may arise in the event of the resignation or formation of a government, and that these may in part be difficult to predict, and we can agree with that, to say the least. Furthermore, we say that this also speaks in favour of not specifying more precisely the limitations of the constitutional competence of a transitional government. In short, a lengthy and complex government process needs extra sensitivity, consideration and responsibility for the handling of matters in particular, also in order not to reduce the room for manoeuvre for a future government.
i-b14941aa535515ba-97	Madam President, I would like Bureaucracy can be something very nice. There are those who sometimes use the word in a derogatory tone, but I will say in a few words why I think bureaucracy is fine. The autumn review of the Constitutional Committee is, in my opinion, a good example of fine bureaucracy. Thanks to the eminent efforts of the committee secretariat, the committee has, on the basis of its special audit mission, gone through both ordinary administrative measures that will always work and more unusual events, as several have mentioned. They should always be performed correctly and correctly even if there is something that is done every day or only once. Sometimes the committee has views expressed in positions, and sometimes the examination does not give rise to any specific positions. Nevertheless, it is equally important that the review is carried out. The more common work that has been reviewed this autumn includes the control of the government's handling of protocols, statistics on employees – both political and non-political employees – and the handling of administrative matters. It is a matter of ensuring that citizens' rights vis-à-vis the public are respected, of knowing the rules in force and of complying with them. I can understand why, sometimes in all workplaces, circumstances arise that are beyond our control. It could be investigators, administrators or a government. Having said that, the committee points out, however, that in a number of cases concerning new constitutions there has been too little time between the announcement of the Constitution and its entry into force. Right should be right; those affected by a new regulation should have a chance to prepare themselves. If these are examples of the bureaucracy of everyday life, the last year has undeniably brought challenges even to a bureaucrat. Bureaucracy at its best is something you can hold firmly in your hand when it blows properly, for example when a government formation takes longer than ever and Sweden for the first time has a transitional government that will present a budget bill. This part of the report, which deals with a more exceptional event, is likely to attract more interest in the coming years when we look back than the examination of the minutes. Here the committee has expanded its positions on the powers of a transitional government and, for example, how to deal with an additional amending budget. When a transitional government has first been allowed to table an unpolitical budget proposal and a new government is then appointed, an additional amending budget may be important because the policy of the new government, which the citizens have chosen, is expressed as quickly as possible even in the first financial year. It is well worth noting at these times that the committee recalls the importance of the process around an amending budget, and also an additional amending budget, being just as tight as the process around a budget proposal. I have a more personal reflection. Since I was not a Member of Parliament during the transitional government's time, the work on this report has been something of a wake-up call for me. The picture of some of us outside the Parliament House and the Government Office was that there would be some kind of chaos. What the Committee on Constitutional Affairs describes in its report is anything but chaos. It is order and order and rules that are followed – as best you can from every given opportunity. The voters' message is respected. As the committee points out, when a transitional government needs to remain so long, it may have to make more and heavier decisions. Then it is also important that the parliamentary power of control is increased accordingly. The review by the Constitutional Committee is, in short, a wonderful union of both bureaucracy and democracy.
i-b14941aa535515ba-109	Madam President, I would like It is always a particular challenge to be last in the order of speaking for a report when so much wisdom has already been said. In fact, I had intended to exaggerate on several matters, but I will focus in particular on government agencies that are governed by boards. Authorities are controlled in several different ways and with several different tools. They are governed by the law, which the Riksdag decides, and they are governed by regulations, which the Government decides on. Some of the regulations are more general and others are more specific, for example with instructions. Of course, the financial framework has a major impact, including government decisions, regulatory letters or other specific decisions taken collectively by a government. Of course, the authority's form of management also affects. The review is about a different form of management than the general rule. In 39 cases, for special reasons, it has been chosen to have a political board as the Authority's top management. This is done on the grounds that the authorities are particularly politically complex, that they affect many others widely in society and also other authorities, and that they are large economically. Then, in my personal opinion, it is particularly important that they work well. On the contrary, we see that many of the authorities in the present, and also some time back, have had greater problems with governance, results and accountability when things have gone wrong. I come back to the issue of accountability. These authorities have, in addition to the board, a head of authority, just like the other authorities, but the big difference is that it is the board that is responsible to the government. The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the activities are carried out effectively. It is the Board of Directors that shall ensure that the operations are conducted in accordance with applicable law, control and follow-up. It is the Board of Directors that will ensure that there is a check on the Authority's good management of our tax revenue. It is simply the board that is the authority's management. In many cases we see that the information is lacking. What happens then? Then a board cannot take full responsibility, and then we have seen that accountability towards them becomes much more difficult. That is why there is reason to really reflect on the report and how the government, whatever its colour, chooses to continue to use administrative authorities. Although efforts have been made to follow up with measures, we see that they do not fully work well. It has been mentioned before that the government has an annual government dialogue. But in addition to that, you should meet the authorities more often. We see that at these other contacts the board rarely attends and has the full information. In addition, a Board shall not be dependent on the Head of Authority to forward information from the political leadership of the Government Office. A lot of the issues that the board is responsible for can of course relate to the agency manager's work, so that dialogue needs to take place in direct contact with the board itself. Finally, we have noted – in itself in a few cases – that one head of one authority is on the board of another. This can be done, but then it should be clear and there are special reasons for it. It has been missed on two occasions, and that should not be the case in the future.
i-b14941aa535515ba-118	Madam President, I would like On 787 pages, the Ombudsmen have submitted their report for 2019/ 20. The individual citizen's situation vis-à-vis laws, authorities and public contexts is at the heart of the issue. Many consider the JO to be a last chance, a last resort to get some kind of redress. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with the story and, in report KU11, makes a number of statements, to which I shall come back, concerning it. Both an open hearing of the four Ombudsmen and questions raised at a customary committee meeting, in addition to the solid written story, form the basis for the position. I would like to suggest here that the official report be added to the record. Madam President, I would like In order to give a picture of the activities of the JO, I can highlight from the official report the following:
i-b14941aa535515ba-123	The areas that have increased most during the year are matters related to prison care and migration. 中 The number of new inspection cases and other cases initiated by the JO itself increased from 70 to 104 cases. I would also like to take this opportunity to make a few comments on the reports by the Ombudsmen on their own observations in their respective areas of responsibility. JO Lars Lindström describes his supervision of the courts, the Swedish Enforcement Authority, plan and construction issues, transfer guardians and the judiciary. In three decisions he has expressed criticism of slow handling. The objectives concerned annuity, sickness benefit and residence permit. Chefs-JO Elisabeth Rynning is responsible for, among other things, Prison Service, Defence, Health Care and Tax and Accounting. Most of the work has been directed towards criminal matters. Complaints have increased here, and the Authority has had to deal with some overcrowding in the field of activity. In the area of health care, the Executive JO highlights two decisions that update the balance between, on the one hand, the protection of personal health and, on the other hand, the need for protection of other people's lives and health. JO Thomas Norling oversees social services, social security, support and services for certain disabled people – abbreviated by LSS – and the labour market. In his report, he would like to draw attention to notifications of authorities that have not sufficiently complied with the requirements of objectivity and impartiality in current cases. In general, a very large part of complaint handling concerns the social services sector and the activities of municipal social services. It is about the care of young people but also about various forms of aid. Publicity and confidentiality are constantly important areas to monitor. JO Cecilia Renfors has, among other things, supervision of police, prosecutor, customs and foreign affairs. In particular, she notes that the highest number of complaints was against the police and that the number of complaints against the Migration Agency was lower than in 2016/17. She also refers to inspections carried out by her and her employees based on situations in police arrests and problems with overcrowding and treatment of inmates. As far as individual observations by the Ombudsmen are concerned. In general, the increase in the number of cases has slowed down again this year, which can be emphasised. However, the number of cases over time has increased. Today's digital reality and fast ways of communicating and acting can be an explanation for this, as well as perhaps increased awareness and knowledge among the public. Nowadays, in some or a few years as many notifications and cases as were handled for the first hundred years of the existence of the JO. Madam President, I would like The statements highlighted by the KU in the report emphasise that the oversight exercised by the JO is extraordinary. The committee stresses the importance of the proper functioning of the regular supervisory activities of certain authorities or of specific supervisory authorities. The committee also draws attention to respect for the dignity of the individual in public activities and stresses the importance of the authorities constantly working on questions of respect and fundamental principles of the rule of law. Finally, there may be reason to look back at history. The JO office is, of course, an important part of the constitutional protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual. Its history in Sweden goes back a long way – it was introduced during the major state upheaval that took place in 1809. Sweden was long alone in having an institution of this kind, but in recent decades, in particular, the idea of an ombudsman's system has spread. Every year about 40 – 50 visits from different parts of the world are made to Sweden to see how the JO works. The JO office is a Swedish model well worth highlighting, which despite 200 years of existence is strong in today's society.
i-b14941aa535515ba-135	Madam President, I would like At first glance, the official account of the Ombudsmen of Justice, this thick lunta, may not seem like a book that is read hungryly opened and reads. But I can assure you that the more than 700 pages contain much more of deeply concerned stories about human fate and the shortcomings of officials and authorities than do many novels. In fact, it should be on the nightstand of every public servant, but at some risk of endangering night sleep. Turning to the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, as we have just heard, is in many cases a final measure when the individual does not feel that he has received his right otherwise. This means that the activities of the JO mean a lot to what the committee describes as a respect for the dignity of the individual in the public service. During an open and televised meeting almost two months ago, the four Ombudsmen highlighted to the KU a number of interesting or particularly remarkable cases in principle. The report clearly showed the importance of a good foundation of values in the public administration and the need for officials just to maintain respect for the dignity of the individual in the public service. Recurrently, as is the case today, the debate from this speaker's chamber on the Parliamentary report of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen usually deals with outrageous matters in the areas of prison, social services or police activities. But I want to raise a matter that in a small macabre way is about our current dependence on IT support in soon to say everything we do. The case is about agricultural subsidies, but the JO sees it wider in that the more general is about digitalisation and digital support in public activities at all. In 2015, one person applied for a certain agricultural aid. After three years, he had not yet received a written decision. On his own request, however, he was informed orally that the application would not be granted. He then complained to the JO. The County Administrative Board in question essentially confirmed the notifier's information and explained that it was waiting for a specific IT support to be provided by another authority, namely the Swedish Board of Agriculture. Thus, there were no material deficiencies in the application or that the person concerned would not be entitled to this aid which led to the absence of a written decision. The same fate, i.e. a long-standing waiting for an IT support to become operational, affected an additional 8 000 applications which have been ready for decisions for several years. The JO considered, quite rightly, that the County Administrative Board's explanation was not acceptable. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen also stated that there was a surprising disregard for basic rules of administrative law. It could be added here that it is also a question of disregard or incomprehension in the face of a farm's need for stability and predictability. The absence of sometimes vital support can directly affect the economy and survival prospects of such a company. We've all probably sighed before or upset at cyber failure, but then perhaps most often over the fact that various development projects have become considerably more expensive than originally promised, sometimes also that they've been delayed. However, it has usually been possible to move forward with an older programme or another type of management. It is at hand to believe that the matter described is quite unique, but unfortunately this does not seem to be the case. For just a few months, the JO has received some thirty complaints where digitisation or upgrading of IT support is alleged to entail lengthy processing. There is therefore every reason to welcome the fact that the JO will investigate a number of these cases. Madam President, I would like The committee also draws attention to ombudsmen's petitions to the government and points out that the need for changes and necessary measures identified by ombudsmen must be given great importance by the government and the relevant authorities. In this context, however, it can be pointed out that the number of such petitions has fluctuated considerably over the years. Our open hearing with ombudsmen revealed that this relationship has also been discussed within the JO Office. It is not possible to comment from this pulpit on the manner in which the office of such referrals is to be held, but I believe it is urgent that such procedures be developed over time. Madam President, I would like With these observations concerning an activity characterised by skill, legal pathos and, if the expression is allowed, also with enthusiasm, I urge the Riksdag to add to the record the Parliamentary Assembly's official report.
i-b14941aa535515ba-147	Mr President, I would like to I shall also begin by calling, in agreement with the committee, for the Joost report to be added to the record. The office of the Parliamentary Ombudsman is non-political and one of the components of the parliamentary power of control. The function of the office is to protect the individual against abuse of authority and to prevent abuse of power by officials. To the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, the public writes to complain about how they have been treated by authorities and their officials, which is the office's main area of work. Some of these complaints can be read about in the thick luntan. At first glance, this brick can cause anxiety in a person like me, but quite quickly you get into the interesting cases that are raised in the various areas of responsibility. The design is very educational with an initial overview, then reference to the law in force and then the JO's assessment. In fact, I managed to read for four days about almost all cases and in most cases understand why the JO made the assessment they made. A lot of cases also inspired exercise on legislative changes. Mr President, I would like to In the official report from the JO, we now see that the case balance has stabilised. The number of cases received is now in balance with the number closed. It is gratifying that the means that the JO has received for more rapporteur posts have had the intended effect. The procedures for individual complaints concerning the same relationship with an authority have been developed to review the relationship on a more comprehensive basis and then to refer to what has been found. This saves the agency a lot of work. That, instead of investigating a notification, where there is reason to suspect that the authority has failed to act before its decision, the JO only recalls the provisions in force may be appropriate in cases where there is reason to believe that the deficiency may be due to ignorance. Such decisions can be made where the alleged error is common and when the JO considers that the matter may be due to a reminder of how the authority should act in the future. This, recalling the regulatory framework, saves a lot of time for all involved. Furthermore, the official report shows that the delegation from ombudsmen to office managers is now increasing after a few years of decline. This is positive and shows that the new employees of the previous fiscal year are starting to get fully into work. There has been a need to strengthen JO's competence in the field of IT. A procurement is now underway for an e-archive solution. In addition, an IT-responsible service has been set up. These were necessary measures, and it is satisfactory that the JO has now made these investments. As regards observations in Area 1 – the courts, the bailiff, the planning and construction area, surveying etc. – I do the analysis that a lot of cases where the JO expressed criticism is due to negligence, misunderstandings or poor communication. But there are more systematic problems, such as long processing times at both administrative and county boards. These systemic problems can be attributed, on the one hand, to the large number of migration targets that use large resources and crowd out other administrative matters, and, on the other hand, to digitalisation that takes time for the authority to implement. None of these explanations is a comfort to the individual. In the end, it is up to the parliament and the government to ensure that the authorities have the resources to obtain reasonable processing times. As in previous years, most of the work in area 2 has been related to criminal and health care matters. Complaints against the Prison Service increased during the financial year, and new supervisory cases were registered in this area in 1,041. The official report notes that the Prison Service has had problems with overcrowding and lack of space. These overcrowdings lead to the detention of detainees or to an unreasonable period of time waiting for them to be put in prison. Of course, overcrowding also leads to conflicts between the detainees. As we see an increasing level of serious crime, combined with the fact that most parties today want to impose penalties, we need to expand both detention centres and prisons. The chain of justice will never be stronger than its weakest link. It is frustrating that this problem is not being addressed at a faster pace. In area 3, a very large part of complaint handling concerns the social services area and the activities of municipal social services. I would like to refer here specifically to a case relating to the assessment of aid to highlight the problems that the administrators may face. This is a home visit to assess the need for home equipment. During the visit, the administrators suspected that there was another person living in the home when both bills issued to him and clothes indicated this. When the administrators raised this, the purpose of the visit changed, and it got a different direction, so to speak. According to the JO, in this situation the visit should have been interrupted as the new direction of the visit was not pre-notified in agreement with the applicant. I have no reason to question the JO's decision to make criticisms about this, but I still have to question a system in which subsidies paid are not subject to stricter conditions of control. Priority 4 includes police, prosecutor, customs and foreign affairs. Complaints against the Finnish Immigration Service about long processing times are still numerous and are of course due to current migration policy. In 2018 alone, more than 133,000 residence permits were granted. In the end, it is also up to the parliament and the government to ensure that the agency has the resources to make well-prepared decisions and have reasonable processing times.
i-b14941aa535515ba-165	Mr President, I would like to 中 Behind every figure in the statistics is a person who, for example, cannot or may not work and whose life is on pause while waiting for information. The order is Ombudsman Katarina Påhlsson and was given in connection with the open meeting of the Constitutional Committee with the Ombudsmen of Justice on 3 December last year. In this case, the person responsible for each figure in the statistics on migration cases was, and the Ombudsman stressed the importance of a trial being held within a reasonable time. She and her predecessor have drawn attention to and criticised several cases of slow processing. JO office is crucial to the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual in our constitutional system. Every year the Parliamentary Report also shows that the office is still needed, for each year there are unfortunately new events in which the individual's rights, freedom or dignity are reduced, distorted or even denied. The fact that the Ombudsmen have just seen the people behind every figure is therefore so important. Mr President, I would like to A person behind a figure in the statistics is the farmer whose case has already been touched on here. Three years after applying for a certain amount of support from a county administrative board, the farmer had not received a written decision but an oral rejection decision and then turned to JO. The County Administrative Board explained to the JO that it was waiting for a special IT support for which the Swedish Board of Agriculture was responsible. That was the main reason why the County Administrative Board had not decided this case as well as 8 000 other cases that had been settled for several years. This is spectacular and remarkable, but unfortunately not the only example of the unacceptable consequences of digitalisation and digital support in public activities for individuals. Mr President, I would like to It is not only for the restoration of the individual whose freedom or right has been established for when the JO office plays a crucial role. It also plays an important role in our country in safeguarding the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law, legality, objectivity and proper treatment in the exercise of public authority. It contributes to increasing the performance of the entire public system through its reviews and initiatives to us legislators. When the office detects systemic shortcomings, the Ombudsmen are not content with criticising the authority concerned but are also addressing the departments and authorities in order to draw attention to these shortcomings and the need for action. Mr President, I would like to The JO office has existed since 1809 and is the world's oldest Ombudsman institution. The JO also plays an important role in international efforts to protect the rights and freedoms of individuals. Ombudsman institutions around the world continue to visit the JO in Stockholm and continue to ask for JO's participation in international contexts. It is of course very gratifying that Sweden and the Ombudsmen thus contribute to an exchange of experiences to safeguard human dignity in Sweden and the world.
i-b14941aa535515ba-173	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are talking about the Ombudsman's report, which is the best book release in Parliament when it comes. Here we get a summary of how Government Sweden succeeds in its important work in the service of its residents. We can read about how the authorities manage to treat residents equally with respect and dignity and comply with existing regulations. All the speakers before me have said how important the JO as an institution is, and I can only agree. The KU agrees on this. The vast majority of government contacts work well. People are generally well treated, and regulations are being followed. But sometimes it doesn't get good. Sometimes the authorities do not function properly, and people can be mistreated and mistreated. Then each person can contact the JO and complain. One must, of course, know that the JO exists, and that is why it is good that the JO's official report is discussed here, that we have open meetings with the JO and that it is also highlighted in various ways in the media. Once you know that JO exists, you can complain. There's no distinction between who you are. Everyone has the right to turn to the JO. This is important for the proper functioning of the authorities. The authorities learn every time they're investigated. It is also important to maintain confidence in the authorities in the country. There is, of course, a lot that could be commented on, but I thought I would stick to two themes. Every year there have been examples of people being treated in a way that is not acceptable and even unworthy in the record. We have heard terrible stories. These are, above all, people who are completely dependent on the authorities in their daily lives or who are subject to coercive measures or detention. In particular, in order to monitor the detention of persons, there is a special unit within the JO, the so-called Opcat unit, which carries out inspections in prisons, detention centres, closed youth homes, psychiatric units and so on, i.e. places where people are locked up and subjected to coercive measures. Such activities can, of course, create situations that can be very stressful for those who work there and everyone involved. In their desperate situation, people in crisis who are locked up and under coercion can be both unpleasant and aggressive; it is part of being human. In such a situation, you are not always friendly. However, those who work in such activities must be able to deal with this, and that requires training, support, supervision and reasonable working conditions, in other words reasonable conditions to do their job. For example, one should not work alone in such situations. You simply need to have responsible management to ensure that you can get the support that is needed. This year's official report includes a review of a special youth home of the National Board of Institutional Affairs, where the Opcat unit had carried out an unannounced inspection. For several years there had been problems with serious abuses, including poor treatment of young people, many cases of unjustified violence, unskilled staff and poor support. Despite the recommendations of the JO on training and support and that the composition of staff should be reviewed, this particular case ended with the removal of management and the final closure of the entire department. It simply had to close, and this demonstrates the need to provide good conditions early on for people working in difficult situations. You should actually be able to get good support and good help from the beginning. This is an extreme case, but such support is incredibly important in all situations where you work with people. When working closely with people, conflicts arise, and situations may arise. This is especially true when you work with people in a situation of dependence, that is, when it comes to working conditions in health care, which we have had up here several times, in health care and in social services, it is crucial that the staff receive sensible working conditions, support and help so that we can continue to have good activities where people get the help they need. In the JO's official report, pictures that can show and support management in demanding good conditions for their employees, such as management interventions in psychiatry or what it might be. I think this is an important theme: dignified treatment of people and good situations. Another theme that often pops up and has been up before is public access, press, confidentiality, freedom of expression and so on. Here again, as I think we had last year, we have situations where municipalities have tried to get people not to express themselves. It was a situation where you were not allowed to wear a sweater with pressure on a preschool. In addition, the lawyers at the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils had been consulted and given advice that according to the JO is not consistent with what applies according to our constitutions. We must really hope that JO's statements spread to all municipalities and county councils and that the lawyers at SKL, the current SKR, take on board the statements made by JO. The fact that our employees in the public sector can use their freedom of expression and actually dare flag when there are bad conditions, as it was at the Sis home, for example, is crucial to maintaining the level of operations. There is much to learn from the official account. It was the best book release. Thank you, Ombudsmen.
i-EW6UN88G28dPvkdaBDmMrV	Mr President, I would like to We hand over from the KU J ustitie ombudsmen's report. It is on 787 pages and exciting as a novel and unfortunately arresting as Victor Hugo Society's accident child. In many cases, it is about individuals who have been trampled on and whose fate, adventure and future have been lost in various ways. We are arrested when we read about it but also grateful that the JO now, as the last resort, can restore these people. I am thinking of the young people in Sundby, in the Aspen section of the youth home, who got beat up. In the simple sense there are conditions that can change a person's life forever. Now they were mentioned, if not by name, at least with circumstances. This was done earlier as well. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen have an essential part to play in bringing these young people back to life and putting an end to the abuse. This is one example after another, but instead of mentioning them, the KU mentions that it is something to read and deepen, not least for officials of different authorities. The work of the JO is often event-driven. There is something that has happened, and they have received a JO notification. The JO notifications have nearly doubled. We are trying to draw conclusions and underline certain things in committee. Among other things, KU points out that JO's supervision is extraordinary, and we stress the importance of a functioning regular supervisory activity. This is something that we point out on a regular basis. Furthermore, we emphasise respect for the dignity of the individual in public activities and stress the importance of the authorities constantly working on questions of respect and fundamental principles of the rule of law, just to mention one of the most important things. Then we note with satisfaction that the JO has carried out more inspections during the year than in previous years. For example, the Chief-JO has carried out 25 inspections, and since autumn 2011, the JO has carried out 200 Opcat inspections, including 15 unannounced. The OPcat inspections are normally pre-notified, but within Opcat, which operates on the basis of the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention, there is a requirement that some of the inspections should be unannounced. You're supposed to show up and just be there. This is important. I will not prolong the examination of this, but I would like to say that the KU's perhaps most important working tool, alongside the National Audit Office, is the work that the Ombudsmen have done since 1809. We hand it over to the House – please!
i-b14941aa535515ba-195	Mr President, I would like to It is undoubtedly something of a year's highlight when the Ombudsman's report of office is preferred to the KU and we Members have the opportunity to ask questions and get answers face to face. But it is here today that we draw our respective conclusions and have the opportunity to point out what we have found in terms of the need for changes both in the conditions of the JO to carry out its mission and in municipalities and authorities, for example, to deliver what citizens can expect of them. As in the previous case management we had raised regarding the government, there are criticisms that are constantly recurring also in the JO's reviews and that therefore become extra serious. As you know, we celebrate the 100 years of democracy and universal suffrage with a four-year democracy anniversary, and we often hold Sweden's banner very high when we talk about equal rights for all, the principle of public access, the activities of the administrative authorities and the principles of the rule of law. And of course we have a lot that is fantastic in Sweden, but yet the JO every year in their reviews points to a number of recurring gaps in the system, where people do not get the treatment that they can expect in Sweden. During the fiscal year, 9 152 new cases were registered, and 8 975 were closed, showing both that citizens know that the JO is their guardian and that the JO has been able to increase the flow of cases, which is a must if citizens are to be able to have continued confidence in this important activity. The fact that it has also been possible to increase the number of inspection or initiative cases shows that the operation works well, thanks to good leadership and an organisation that seems to be developing well together. I do not want to take credit for this in any way, but I believe that the fact that the Riksdag has for some time shown more clearly an interest in the business and does not equate the concept of independence with what could almost be considered a touch terror means that both the Riksdag and the JO now feel a more mutual and clear responsibility towards each other, something that has probably had a positive impact also in terms of results. A recurring category of complaints is too long processing times with our various authorities, at all levels. The example of farmers has been up and clearly shows the effect of long-term case management by the authorities on the individual trader. Long processing times are devastating, both for companies and for individuals, as well as unpredictable and inconsistent outcome of processing. It is therefore a great responsibility of our authorities to meet the requirements that citizens can impose on them, but it is also a responsibility of the parliament and the government to ensure that the authorities have the resources and competences to carry out this work. For this reason, the budgetary effort now presented to the courts and to the municipalities is also important in this case. There is also a need to continue to focus on education and information, both in terms of core values and issues as such. Privacy issues and core values issues are also on the agenda and something that is highlighted and highlighted by both the JO and the committee. It is again about people being treated respectfully even in stressed and vulnerable situations and environments. The fact that prisoners are treated in a fair way must be the only thing that applies even though, as Mia Sydow Mölleby said, not all people are certainly in their best light there and then. But there are to be high demands on our police officers in the performance of their duties and on our legal system. This must be the case in a state governed by the rule of law. Finally, I will mention an area that is perhaps closest to my heart, namely that children and young people in particular who are in government care should have the support, protection and security that they need. Here we are talking about the most vulnerable group we have in our society. It is an area that deserves our full attention. In their inspections of the National Board of Institutional Affairs, SiS, the National Board of Health and Welfare, IVO, and the Parliamentary Ombudsman, JO, have noted a lack of competence and staffing, a lack of care content, a lack of routines, premises in poor condition, a lack of safety, poor management of staff towards young people, weak collaboration with the social welfare board, and so on, to the extent that SiS finally chose to close a department after repeated criticism from the JO's Opcat unit. The Government has commissioned IVO to conduct in-depth analyses of the supervisory results to be reported in February. The 2020 budget proposal contains a package of measures to strengthen social care for children and young people. But this is a matter that we must constantly follow and help to highlight. This is about the most vulnerable, those who have no one else to speak for them. This, if anything, shows that the findings of the JO and the need for change and necessary measures that they identify must be taken very seriously by the government and the relevant authorities and provide the basis for improved legislation and improved methods of preventing shortcomings and errors in public activities. It is also of great importance that the understandings of the JO are disseminated to our authorities and citizens so that they can thus be the engine that we require them to be in the constant process of changing society.
i-b14941aa535515ba-204	Mr President, I would like to For some government officials around the country, the JO's official story is one of the most important textbooks, and perhaps the only one, that they can access – even if they can access it digitally and not in the form of a fancy book that we get to the committee. It is extremely instructive and provides both depth and breadth. It has been explained carefully in the past, both here in this House during this debate and at the public hearing that has been held with the Ombudsmen when we had the opportunity to ask questions. There are several worrying issues that we have discussed, and I intend to highlight some and try to find the individual's perspective on the whole. First of all, I would like to say something about the state values that everyone who works in our agencies should work from outside, i.e. democracy, legality, objectivity, free opinion formation, respect and efficiency and service. This means that everyone who works in the state should respect democratically made decisions. Of course, all the decisions they make must comply with the law and all the rules. The handling and execution of the work shall be objective and impartial. They shall respect the rights and freedoms of the Constitution and enjoy them themselves as civil servants. They should always show respect for each other and the people they meet in the ministry. And as if it were not enough, they should be efficient and quick and provide friendly service to all the people they meet. Then it is not good enough to say to the individual citizen: You may not be able to get a decision that you can appeal because we do not have any IT support. Is there something that you really should think about around the country – we certainly have some to think about in activities that we know about – is whether when the IT support falls, you are prepared to sit down with paper and pen and ensure that citizens get their decisions, as the JO said at the hearing. That is what the rules say. They don't say that you should be able to make a decision if you have IT support. I think this is important. Nor is it good enough as a public employer to deny its employees the right to constitutionally protected freedom of expression, as in the example where the staff of a preschool had sweaters with a message. Some of the words I am reacting to in this particular case are the municipality's statement that preschool should be a neutral place. I think I understand what you're after. But I don't think preschool should be neutral. Many of the values that preschool and the whole public stand for are clear values for democracy and freedom. It's not neutral. In addition, it is also up to civil servants, including preschool teachers, to objectively and impartially inform parents about their activities. If there are too few people who are going to do the job or if something has happened to a child during the day in preschool, the employees are going to tell the parents. JO is critical of the municipality's actions and the violation of the freedom of expression of its staff. My consent based on this legality is that there are plenty of laws and rules that help explain how an operation should work. I think it would be better to apply these laws on health and safety at work and social and organisational health in preschool. Then you don't have to have people expressing this kind of opinion. You also know the saying, love me most when I deserve it at least. Of many stories, we understand that it is about us people when we are at our most vulnerable. Maybe we're under the influence of drugs, sick people, or we've committed crimes and we're ashamed, and we're the worst version of ourselves. Even then, we shall be treated with dignity and respect by the public, just as it is described in the state values that should be the values of the public at large.
i-vYVNHgZrMVsuKDy3pZFzB	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Constitutional Committee's report 5 on the follow-up to Parliament's application of the principle of subsidiarity. There are certainly among those who are watching and listening to this some who hear the word subsidiarity for the first time. I shall therefore briefly summarise what it is about. It is about assessing the level at which a proposal should be implemented in order to achieve the best possible impact, whether at the level of the Member State or at the level of the Union. That's what you do to find out where you get the most bang for the money in this case. The report provides an overall perspective on both observations and comments every year to see what has worked well and what may have worked less well. The report contains clear statements on the different areas and the various observations that have been made. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has carried out its task, and so we shall now give up the report.
i-b14941aa535515ba-217	Mr President, I would like to The principle of subsidiarity is one of the cornerstones of the European Union in which we, together with others, have chosen to join. I would like to supplement the previous speaker's description of the principle of subsidiarity by saying that it should be the lowest rational level of decision-making. So it should not just be the level where we get the most bang for the money, but decisions should be taken at the most citizen-friendly level that is rational for the matter in question. Parliament has worked particularly ambitiously to try to uphold the principle of subsidiarity within the framework of the European Union. We are the Parliament that has the most extensive process of ensuring that we do not hand over missions to the European Union that would instead have stayed at national or regional level. Unfortunately, one may well say, we are quite alone in having such a rigorous examination of the various issues to be examined under subsidiarity. I believe that this may be one of the reasons why so few of the cases examined by the national parliaments actually reach the level required for a so-called yellow card, in other words that the Commission needs to come back and clearly justify why they should have the authority at all. The Swedish Parliament is sometimes questioned around, especially from other countries. One wonders why we send so many motivating statements. I think it has to do with us spending time and energy actually going through the dossiers and seeing what they really mean. I believe that it is often underestimated, especially at a time when it is being called into question in some parts of the European Union that we are taking these very issues very seriously. I believe that this is important for the legitimacy of the functioning of the European Union, and I think it is important for us together that it is a well thought-out and proven decision once we hand over a task to the European Union. Mr President, I would like to In support of this, in order to achieve the number of national parliaments required, the EU has something called IPEX. It is a system of exchange of information to see which other Parliaments have begun to examine a particular case and what it might lead to. There are some concerns about this. First of all, the information contained in the system is mainly available in the national language used in the Parliament examining the matter. For example, as a Member, I am not fluent in all the European languages that exist within the European Union, which may make it difficult for me to access the information in a valuable way. It is not fully translated. Moreover, when such a process begins, the time available for this form of trial can go quite far before one sees what the result is. It will therefore be difficult for a national Parliament, after another Parliament has closed a case and had objections, to start its own process and to make it clear within the set deadline. This and a number of other issues are currently under review in the EU. The Constitutional Committee looks forward to seeing the results in the autumn of this year.
i-b14941aa535515ba-225	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Registry very much, which has once again managed to draw up the opinions of the committees in a very good way. This makes it easy for us to access the material and see the compilation and results. Perhaps someone is sitting in front of the television set watching and wondering what we are talking about in the Chamber today. This is therefore a question of applying the principle of subsidiarity. Basically, when the Commission or another questioner wants to draft a law, the draft legislative act is sent to the national parliaments. The national parliaments will then examine this and, as we have heard from previous speakers, see whether the legislative proposal is at the right level – that is, the most effective level. If it is considered that it does not do so but that it is better decided in the Member States, it gives a reasoned opinion and sends it back to the EU. Then there is a process of so-called yellow or orange cards, which will solve the knot. In the end, this leads to the rejection or entry into force of the proposal. Of 862 proposals since the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty, three yellow cards have been issued, so we understand how effective the process is. The construction itself makes objections by the national parliaments rather ineffective; it takes quite a lot to change a proposal coming from the Commission or Parliament. Moreover, when the proposals come, it is often too late to act – much because of the problem we have just heard from Erik Ottoson, namely that the computer systems do not really work. Then we cannot cooperate between the national parliaments, and cooperation between the national parliaments is something that we in the Swedish Parliament have called for. We've established that it doesn't work well enough. In addition, national room for manoeuvre is being reduced for each legislative act that comes into force, rather than strengthening the influence of national parliaments on the process. We from the Swedish Democrats are opposed to this. Nevertheless, I would like to say that this is a formally important process. Even if it does not work as we would like, it is better than not having this process at all. We must safeguard the ability of national parliaments to put forward their views at all costs and to counterbalance the federalist system that exists in Europe. We want to strengthen the transparency of national parliaments, as we have also highlighted in the parliamentary inquiry into the work of the European Parliament that came a few years ago. To return to 2018, as this case concerns: it is therefore 149 acts that have been sent to the national parliaments. The Swedish Parliament has issued 12 reasoned opinions, i.e. 12 objections. It is not much with 12 objections, but in percentage terms it is about what it usually is. However, 149 pieces of legislation are the highest since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and, of course, we can only talk about that. Is it perhaps the result of 2018 being the end of a term of office? That may well be the case. We can see the same in this House – when elections are approaching, all of a sudden all the proposals that we go up and wait for over the years before that. Or is this some form of political activism on the part of the European Union? In the years 2011 – 2013 we have seen such political activism, and that is also, of course, in the federalist ambition that exists from the Commission. But it is too early to tell. Should it be the case that we increase the activism on the part of the European Union, we are against it, and we really need to strengthen the national parliaments. We will therefore closely monitor how this develops in the future. We can also note that there are still opportunities for improvement, not least in the case of IPEX, which has been mentioned. We need to have clearer information from the Commission on time limits and the like. It is important, and it is a recurring point of view that we have on the part of the Constitutional Committee. As usual, we also note that the committees, although dissatisfied with IPEX, are very pleased with the Swedish representation that exists at the EU institutions. All of us who have visited Brussels can testify that this information works very well, even for parliamentarians who are down there. We can also note that we finally have provisions that allow you to have a Christmas and New Year break without adversely affecting the process.
i-b14941aa535515ba-235	Mr President, I would like to A great deal of this morning's parliamentary debates have been about scrutiny, and the first issue was, of course, the review of the Constitutional Committee. This report deals with another review, namely the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the government's governance of the county boards. What we in the Constitutional Committee have done is to read the government's letters on this examination and, of course, the report itself. Initially, I would like to say that the committee believes that the review by the Swedish National Audit Office provides a good basis for the government to further develop the governance of the county boards. We have 21 county boards in Sweden. They are 21 independent agencies, which operate in a wide range of areas and with a broad remit. The question of government control of county boards has been investigated on a number of occasions, and many of the investigations have highlighted the problems with the governance of these boards. The review report points out that the government does not have a sufficiently developed holistic approach to governance, but rather follows the same model as for other authorities and thus does not take sufficient account of the diversity that exists between county boards. The review report points out that governance is difficult today, as it can be found in a number of documents: in regulations, in a common regulatory letter, in specific regulatory letters and in commissions. Governance is extensive and in some cases very detailed. According to the report, the funding of county boards is also difficult to overview, as it consists of a relatively small administrative allocation and a variety of other complementary sources of funding. Part of the funding consists of contributions from other authorities and earmarked funds. Here the committee wishes to stress how important it is for county boards to be given good conditions for planning their activities and for predictability to increase. We in the committee believe that the county boards should be given greater opportunities to take account of regional conditions and conditions when carrying out missions. The Swedish National Audit Office's review also shows that there are no documented criteria for when tasks and assignments are to be given to the county administrative boards or to other authorities – it is decided on a case-by-case basis. The committee believes that the government's governance should specify more clearly which issues are prioritised for the county boards and what role they should play in the state administration. We in the committee would like to highlight the value of a comprehensive picture of the county boards' tasks within the Government Offices to enable proper governance and monitoring of the activities. Finally, Madam President, I would like to raise two issues that are closely linked and to which the committee specifically points. We stress the need for cooperation between the relevant authorities and county boards. This is a prerequisite for the county boards to be able to carry out their task as coordinator. The committee would like to highlight in particular the tasks of the county administrative boards in order to bring together emergency preparedness in their geographical area. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the committee welcomes the measures the government intends to take in response to the report. We also note that the government agrees with the formulations of problems. The committee considers it urgent that the government improve its governance of the county boards and obtain a comprehensive picture of their mission. To do this, the Government should follow the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. The Constitutional Committee will monitor the work and impact of the measures taken. I request that the Parliament add the letter of the Government to the record.
i-b14941aa535515ba-250	Madam President, I would like The role of county administrative boards is important for the whole of Sweden to live, develop and be kept together. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's governance of the county boards is therefore justified. It has also, as I understand it, been welcomed by the county administrative boards and received constructively by the government, as is clear from the letter we have today to take a position on. I would like to support the proposal in the KU report, the KU2, which proposes that the Parliament submit the Government's letter in response to the report. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office gave the title Vanan's power to its review report, and it might have its point. A habit is something that sometimes happens without much thought about it – it only happens out of routine, tradition and experience, but it generally works very well. Of course, however, it is important to keep looking to the future – how can a largely well-functioning operation be further improved? The overall competence and knowledge of each county administrative board is therefore worth highlighting. The fact that the review has been received with great interest and also discussed was not least for the Constitutional Committee when we recently visited the county boards in Västernorrland and Gävleborg, but it has also emerged from other contacts that I – and certainly also other members – have had with county boards in different parts of Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to the Government is to gather, as far as possible, the assignments to the county administrative boards in the joint regulation letter and in this formulate assignments to the county administrative boards, which today are only reflected in other authorities' regulatory letters and special decisions concerning the county administrative boards. It is emphasised that the county boards should be given good opportunities to plan their operations and that predictability should increase. Greater consideration should also be given to regional conditions and conditions. It is the case that conditions differ in different parts of the country. Some county boards have short distances and high population density. Others have large areas of sparsely populated and rural areas. Some have the most inland; others have the most coastline. Even socio-economically, it may differ from country to country. The 21 county boards are independent authorities with a joint assignment, and they operate in a number of areas. Regional development is based on close and mutual cooperation between the state, in the form of county boards, central authorities and elected regional councils. Since the Government Office is organised in departments with different branches of activity, in principle each department is responsible for any activity carried out by the County Administrative Boards. For this reason, the need for coordination is significant. Madam President, I would like The committee believes that the Swedish National Audit Office's review provides a good basis for the government to further develop the governance of the county boards. According to the committee, county administrative boards should be given greater opportunities to take account of regional circumstances and conditions. It should also be specified more clearly which issues are prioritised for the county boards and what role the county boards should play in central government. The KU points out the value of a comprehensive picture of the county boards' assignments within the Government Office. The instructions for the county administrative boards show that they must coordinate different social interests and the efforts of state authorities. The committee therefore wishes to emphasise – and does so in its position, which can be emphasised in particular – that the relevant state authorities also need to cooperate with the county administrative boards. Another point raised in the report is that the funding of county boards is difficult to overview, as it consists of a relatively small administrative allocation and a variety of complementary sources of funding. A not insignificant part of the funding consists of contributions from other authorities and earmarked funds. The report shows that the Government has granted the county administrative boards an increased allocation of certain appropriations. This has created better conditions for county boards to plan their operations. Madam President, I would like In this context, particular attention may also be paid to the task of county boards to coordinate crisis preparedness in their geographical area and to work before, during and after a crisis to coordinate and coordinate the actions that need to be taken. One example is the extensive forest fire that ravaged Hälsingland some time ago and where the role of the County Administrative Board was particularly highlighted. Another example is cooperation across county boundaries in Skåne and southern Halland, where county boards work together to master the impact of beach erosion. The Government Office has an inter-departmental working group on county administrative matters. According to the Government, this can be used to a greater extent to strengthen the overall perspective in the governance of the county boards. The Government also stresses that it sees a need for the principles that should form the basis for the governance of the county boards to be made more transparent and known. There is reason to welcome the measures that the Government intends to take in response to the review report. It also agrees with several of the problem formulations. The committee will, of course, monitor the work and impact of the measures taken.
i-b14941aa535515ba-268	Madam President, I would like Based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's governance of the county boards, we can read here in report KU2, the Constitutional Committee's conclusion that the review provides a favourable basis in order to further develop the governance itself on behalf of the government. The Swedish National Audit Office has stated, among other things, that the Government does not have a satisfactory or sufficiently developed holistic perspective regarding the governance of the county boards. Based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report, it emerges that the Government has increased the county boards' disposition rights in respect of certain material grants. This has led to the development of better conditions for business planning. The committee has stressed the importance of giving county boards the necessary conditions to plan their activities. The committee also wants to see an increase in predictability. In addition, the committee believes that greater opportunities should be given to county administrative boards when carrying out missions and that consideration should be given to regional circumstances and conditions. The committee has stressed the need for cooperation between the state authorities involved in the matter and the county boards. It is a premise for the county boards to have the opportunity to carry out their task as coordinator. In this particular context, the committee has highlighted in particular the task of county boards to act in a coherent manner for crisis preparedness in their geographical area, and to work before, during and after a crisis for coordination and a united focus on the necessary measures. As regards the Government Office's working group on county administrative matters, the Government believes that it can be used to a greater extent in order to strengthen the overall perspective of the government's governance of county boards. Two other measures that the government intends to further work on are an increase in direct funding through administrative appropriations and, as I mentioned earlier, an increase in the right of choice on the issue of substantive appropriations. In conclusion, the committee has welcomed the measures the government intends to take in response to the review report presented by the Swedish National Audit Office. A note has also been made whereupon it appears that the government agrees with several of the problem formulations. The committee has stated that it is important that the government both improves its governance of the county boards and that the government obtains a coherent picture of their mission. In order to achieve this, the Government should implement measures based on the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office. The committee intends to monitor the work and the impact of the measures implemented. With what has been said, a unanimous committee has proposed that the Parliament should put the letter of the Government to the record, which is also my request. I would like to thank the other Members and the Registry for their good work.
i-b14941aa535515ba-275	Madam President, I would like The county administrative boards are essentially the presence of the state at regional level. The county administrative boards are 21 independent agencies with a broad mandate, which makes it a special challenge for the government to manage them. It has been pointed out for a long time that the conditions for county boards to operate are not the best. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the government's governance of the county boards also shows that the government does not have a sufficiently developed holistic perspective on the governance of the county boards, which has made the governance sectorised, detailed and unclear. This has led, among other things, to the county boards having difficulty reading the government's intentions and planning their operations. The review also shows that in several respects the government controls the county boards as if they were an authority, which according to the Swedish National Audit Office has led to less clear roles and responsibilities within the county board collective. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is that the government's way of governing the county boards restricts them and their ability to conduct long-term and sustainable operations. Madam President, I would like When the Government has examined the Swedish National Audit Office's report, it has incorporated and taken into account many of the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and recommendations. It will be very interesting to see how the government will now manage and take care of the views in the further work on developing the governance of the county boards. One crucial point is that the county administrative board must have effective possibilities to coordinate between different social interests and the efforts of state authorities. As long as the development continues that each state authority is itself enough and will design its own regional geography without taking into account or interacting with the regional state level, we will unfortunately see more drainpipes and fewer rammers. Who benefits from such a development? No, this is where we need strength to reverse the trend. Much needs to be done to develop and increase the overall perspective of the government's governance of the authorities and to improve the ability of county boards to exercise the state's regional coordination mission. One important measure among others is to clear the flora of assignments and reporting requirements in the regulatory letters. Does the Government Office today really have the capacity to take care of all the reports coming from the county administrative boards? Is reporting meaningfully used to develop the business, or has it become unnecessary bureaucracy? Madam President, I would like In the continuing work of developing the role of county boards, I would like to highlight the Center Party's proposal as a subset of interesting solutions to look further at. The Center Party wants a proper decentralisation and regionalisation based on shifting functions, responsibilities and funding from central level to regions with elected assemblies. The regions should be functional regions that offer better opportunities for development and jobs throughout the country. A study should therefore be set up on the role of county boards, where a starting point is precisely to transfer parts of the powers from the state to the regions.
i-b14941aa535515ba-282	Madam President, I would like The assignments of the county administrative boards are complex. This is shown both by the Swedish National Audit Office's audit report and by the Government's letter, which is a response to the review report. The committee is united in its position, and I choose to highlight briefly two aspects which I think are important to include in the work that will continue in the future. The first is the importance of allowing the county boards to have a character that is shaped by the regional conditions. Although there are joint missions, our counties look different. This can, for example, be expressed in the context of emergency preparedness, where local knowledge is an important factor for rapid and effective decisions. The second aspect is the importance of all state actors having a basic approach based on collaboration and trust and contributing to the county boards' coordination missions. There is a need for cooperation with the municipalities and civil society in the county in question, and I think it is important that it is based on principles and approaches that involve all the actors involved, otherwise we risk getting into a detailed management directed at each authority. It can lead to far too much bureaucracy, which can prevent us from taking advantage of the work that is being done. The committee will follow the work, and I look forward to doing so.
i-b14941aa535515ba-286	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the proposal and for reservation 4. Madam President, I would like Democratic society must use its full force to do everything possible to combat terrorists and their ability to organise. At the same time, we democrats must stand up for what the terrorists hate most, namely our open democratic society. We shall stand up for freedom of speech and religion, we shall stand up for the equal value of all people and we shall stand up for equality and LGBTQ rights. On these points, we must never bow down. Then we've let the terrorists win. Madam President, I would like Today we are taking another step in the fight against terrorism. It is one, too many of us, welcome and long-awaited step. More acts that can promote, strengthen or support a terrorist organisation are now criminalised. The forms of association referred to are: - take up arms, ammunition, flammable or explosive goods or means of transport of a terrorist organisation allow local or land to be allocated to a terrorist organisation; or . provide other similar support to a terrorist organisation. The term ‘terrorist organisation' shall mean an association of persons who commit particularly serious crime or are guilty of attempted, prepared, conspiracy or complicity in such crime. The scale of penalties for the offence shall not exceed two years in prison or, if the offence is serious, in prison for at least six months and no more than six years in prison. The proposal also means that attempts at the new crime are criminalised. It will also be punishable by public calls for and recruitment for association with a terrorist organisation, by travelling abroad in order to associate with a terrorist organisation, and by financing association with a terrorist organisation. Madam President, I would like However, it is questionable whether the existing scale of penalties in the area of terrorism in all respects reflects the seriousness of the crimes. To this end, the Terrorist Crime Investigation, by means of an Additional Directive of March 2018, has also been tasked with, in particular, considering and proposing changes in the scale of penalties for offences covered by the criminal law against terrorism, with a view to achieving an increased level of penalties. We believe that the design of the scale of penalties should be considered together, and as the Terrorist investigation will be completed with its report in the near future, we do not find any reason to approve the proposal for a declaration on increased penalties. Madam President, I would like The fight against terrorism is the responsibility of all of us. Therefore, it is gratifying that during the previous term of office we were able to conclude two cross-block agreements, one in 2015 and one in 2017, which strengthen Sweden's ability to combat terrorism. Some of the measures we have agreed on include a resource enhancement of Säpo and the police to increase impact, ensuring the police's response capacity with increased ability to reduce response times and to operate in more than one location at the same time and for a long time, joint exercises between the Police Authority, the Swedish Armed Forces and Säpo and increased international cooperation. New legislation allows for operational cooperation between EU intervention teams. We have also concluded a similar agreement with Norway. In addition, terrorist travel and the reception of terrorist training have been criminalised. The penalties for serious weapons offences and serious violations of the authorisation requirement for explosives have also been tightened. Madam President, I would like With regard to the committee's proposal for a declaration that the government should urgently set up an investigation tasked with producing proposals that criminalise participation in a terrorist organisation, we agree with what the committee says: L legislation in this area must be effective but at the same time legally secure and take into account the fundamental rights and freedoms protected by, among other things, the Constitution. However, we note, on the one hand, the March 2019 opinion of the Law Council and, on the other, the ongoing dialogue between parties within the Terrorist Agreement, which is also mentioned in the bill. Given the complexity of the issue and the fact that this is a constitutional amendment, the government will set up an investigation for this purpose. We believe that this process should not be pre-empted. So we have in no way changed our position. We still believe that participation in terrorist organisations should be criminalised. But against this background there is, in our opinion, no reason for the Riksdag to make an announcement such as the motionaries are asking for. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that terrorism is not a new concept or a new phenomenon. Terrorism, however, is not static. It has changed over time, from the reign of terror of the French Revolution to airplane creations and kidnappings in the 1970s to today's suicide bombers. Having said that, it is extremely important that we, as legislators, constantly evaluate and, if necessary, also change our legislation so that it meets the terrorist of the future with the full power of open society.
i-b14941aa535515ba-298	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Terrorism is an attack on our entire society. It spreads fear and fear. Ultimately, it attacks our way of life, transparency and democracy. Terrorism therefore needs to be vigorously combated wherever it shows its face. Europe has suffered several serious terrorist acts in recent years. According to a compilation by Europol, 130 terrorist acts were carried out or interrupted within the European Union in 2018. Some of the atrocities we all remember are the attacks on public transport in London in 2005, the attacks on Utöya in 2011 and the attacks on Charlie Hebdo and Le Bataclan in Paris in 2015. Tens of thousands of people worldwide lose their lives every year because of terrorism. The attack on Drottninggatan 2017 shows that the threat of terrorism is real also in Sweden. The Swedish terrorist threat level remains elevated, and there is a risk of further attacks. The main terrorist threat to Sweden is likely to come from Islamic-motivated terrorism, although it is important to also take terrorist threats from the white power environment and the autonomous environment very seriously. During the years 2012 – 2016 around 300 people left Sweden to join violent groups in Syria and Iraq. Sweden is the country that, next to Belgium, has the highest number of people who have joined IS in terms of population. There is reason to take this development very seriously, in terms of both IS travellers returning to Sweden and the recruitment of radicalized people who already live in Sweden. According to the National Centre for Threat Assessment, there are individuals, both in Sweden and abroad, who regard terrorist attacks against targets in Sweden as legitimate and who have both intention and ability to carry out attacks. Madam President, I would like We Moderates contributed to two agreements against terrorism, 2015 and 2017 respectively. We have agreed on important initiatives across party boundaries to strengthen Sweden's security. Unfortunately, more than four years after the first agreement, we can see that the government has not given sufficient priority to implementing the measures that have been agreed. For example, there is still a lack of opportunities for enhanced control of persons who pose security threats, clearer rules on confidentiality between police and local authorities and more effective penalties for terrorist offences. It is in this context that we are debating today the report on special criminal liability for dealing with a terrorist organisation. Criminalising association with and participation in a terrorist organisation was part of the 2017 Terrorist Agreement. It is, of course, gratifying that we are now in a position to impose criminal liability on certain forms of association with a terrorist organisation. While we support the proposed regulation, we note that it is not enough. Since spring 2019 it has been known that a broad criminalisation of participation in a terrorist organisation is not considered compatible with the form of government. Fundamental changes require thorough investigation and careful consideration. That is why it is all the more important that the work can begin as a matter of urgency. Given the urgency of obtaining comprehensive legislation, it is surprising that the government has still not managed to set up an investigation into how a ban on participation in a terrorist organisation can be made possible. With the slowness of the government, there is a clear risk that proposals for necessary constitutional changes will not reach the table of Parliament during the current term of office. The Nordic and European outlook of the Terrorist Crime Investigation in its report shows that there are criminal provisions for participation in terrorist organisations in Norway, Finland, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. In addition to Sweden, only Denmark does not have criminal provisions for participation in a terrorist organisation. Pending the investigation and preparation of the constitutional issue, we believe that the space available under the current limitation rule should be used. We therefore propose that the government should return as soon as possible with proposals to criminalise participation in the activities of a military-like terrorist organisation. Finally, Madam President, the penalties proposed by the government for dealing with a terrorist organisation are too low, given the seriousness of the crime involved. The proposed penalties for ordinary-grade offences are at the same level as theft, i.e. imprisonment for up to two years. In fact, in many cases it is in danger of leading to conditional sentences or probation. Depending on developments in the outside world, the level of terrorist threat can rapidly deteriorate further. It is therefore important that there is effective and comprehensive Swedish legislation in place that can help prevent, prevent and prosecute terrorist acts.
i-b14941aa535515ba-311	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report on special criminal liability for dealing with a terrorist organisation. For those who have followed Parliament's work over the past five or six years, terrorism is not an undebated subject in this House. We have had special debates that have been called for by terrorist attacks on Swedish streets. We have had regular debates through motion reports, and we have had special motion reports on terrorism. This is a development that in many ways has been devastating for our country. We have built permanent terrorist threats into our country partly through migration, partly through segregation and partly through a passive red-green government. As I said, we have already debated this issue. In 2015, the government presented its first report, which spoke of obstacles, aggravating or something similar. Even then, the Swedish Democrats rejected more far-reaching measures. These measures have been left to the red-green government to tangle with the proposals of the bourgeois parties following the two deliberations held in 2015 and 2017. As early as 2017, the Swedish Democrats suggested, for example, that it would be easier to use camera surveillance to prevent and stop terrorists who commit crimes in the big cities. All parties voted against this. The following day the terrorist attack took place on Drottninggatan in Stockholm. The proposal for camera surveillance then appeared in the discussion that took place between the Red-Green Government and the bourgeois parties. The Swedish Democrats have been excluded from the deliberations that have taken place. That is also the reason why the awareness has been so poor and that the proposals on the table have been so bad in overcoming the problems that we are all concerned about today. For example, we have been able to read today that there are more and more security threats among asylum seekers. The link between migration and the terrorist threat is something that the Swedish Democrats have highlighted for a very long time. But the other parties have wanted to put their heads in the sand. We must be very vigilant about the fact that terrorist threats are partly a problem imported into Sweden. If you do not realise it, you have no basic prerequisite for getting to the problems that are growing around the suburbs today. We must also be able to discuss other proposals in addition to what is on the table today in terms of association. The Swedish Democrats suggested at an early stage that participation should also be criminalised. In the face of this, the government has dragged its feet. If one had followed the line of the Swedish Democrats, there would already have been criminalisation today, regardless of whether or not a constitutional amendment was required. We have already proposed this in the previous parliamentary term. Now we don't have this on the table. Even if the government were to set up an inquiry into a constitutional change that we in Parliament are deciding on, this will not be possible until after the next elections. This is the result of a slow red-green government. Everything's too late. Everything is forced by the opposition. You don't take your own initiative. In this context, we must also be able to raise our eyes and not just look at participation. There, many other countries have been far-sighted and already have legislation in place. We must be able to lift our eyes to see what we can do further to secure our country from the security threats that today have qualified education and experience of terrorist wars in Syria and Iraq. It is a question of citizenship. Today, only the Swedish Democrats and the real opposition have made proposals to be able to deprive the citizens of those who participated in, for example, IS wars in Syria and Iraq. The Red Green Government refuses to raise the issue at all. Why is it so difficult for the Red-Green Government to see what measures are needed? How many terrorist crimes are to be committed that are linked to those who return to our country before the government understands that this is a war of values? This applies to values that cannot be punished with two years' imprisonment in Swedish institutions. We must have a government that is setting its foot firmly against the threat of terrorism against our country and our people. Then we must also raise the issue of citizenship for IS terrorists. As early as 2015, the Swedish Democrats suggested that the citizenship of terrorists could be deprived of. Sweden could have had such legislation in place today and done just like Denmark and many other countries, namely cut citizenship, and said: Good luck! Have it! Sweden is no longer your home country. However, there is no such thing. It is only because we have a red-green government that has its head in the sand and refuses to take the necessary measures to secure our country from a serious terrorist threat. The Swedish Democrats have a number of reservations on the table today through accompanying motions. Stricter penalties are one of the proposals, and I would like to endorse reservation 3, Madam President. The Government proposes that this should be punished for up to two years, fines for up to two years, for quite concrete acts that are difficult to prove. If you come back to our country, you could risk up to two years in prison with two-thirds release. It'll be about a year in jail. This is what the Red-Green Government wants to guarantee all the people who have travelled to Syria and Iraq to murder women and children. Then they come out again as free citizens. It's all forgotten and forgiven, according to the Red Green Government. We are calling for stricter penalties for these crimes, penalties proportionate to the seriousness of the offences and the threat that this poses to our country. In other contexts, we have also raised legislative proposals on what exists in Norway, namely storage judgment. We think this is appropriate for the return terrorists. This means that if they continue to pose a threat to our country, they should not be released entirely regardless of whether or not they have received a time-limited penalty. We must be able to ensure that none of the individuals who are dangerous to our country continue to pose a threat by continuing to plan and carry out terrorist attacks on our land. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I just want to say that I find this sad. The only positive thing is that we have fairly clear records from history showing which parties acted and which parties chose to look away.
i-b14941aa535515ba-326	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 8. Today we are going to debate and decide on a matter that is very obvious but which is also a constitutionally very tricky issue. It is rarely we citizens need to reflect on whether the decisions taken politically lead to a breach of the Constitution. It is not an easy matter to discuss. It goes without saying that all activities that an individual chooses to do and which lead to increased terrorism should be criminalised. However, the fact that this can ultimately lead to a constitutional change is not quite as easy to discuss. About five years ago, the inhabitants of my county, Örebro, became clearly aware of this issue. IS-returner came back home to Örebro. There was a heated debate in the media and among politicians and decision-makers about how these people should be punished and what public benefits they should be entitled to. There was, in many cases, an unmanageable discussion. When I talk to the then responsible municipal councillor, certain things are clear. First of all, you knew who these people were before they left. They were known from before. They had a messy past and a messy CV. As a municipal politician, however, they are just municipal politicians. You're not Säpo. You're not a cop. You're not a judge. Madam President, I would like The task of the municipality is primarily to work preventively. Regardless of how stringent the legislation we have, we must prevent people from joining these organisations. That is why it is so important for us today, for example, to tighten up the penalties for dealing specifically with terrorist organisations. Politicians and officials in Örebro knew who these people were. They knew who recruited new people. Today, it would have been easier to prosecute those very people. Secondly, the Municipal Council mentioned the isolation in which the municipality was located. It was a one-way communication from the law enforcement authorities. Confidentiality legislation was and is a problem. It was not felt that Säpo or the police had sufficient cooperation with the municipality. It's been a while since then. We know that, for example, the working method of cooperation between authorities makes it easier to work both preventive and judicial. However, we need to monitor and monitor confidentiality legislation, and that applies in more areas than this. Madam President, I would like The terrorism must be taken very seriously. In the 20th century, Europe has suffered from terrorism from separatists in Northern Ireland and the Basque Country to religious sects and left and right extreme movements. The recent increase is totally unacceptable. There are numerous theories as to why terrorism is growing: from exclusion to racism, from distorted religious outlook to frustrated anger, from ideology to belief in doomsday or a new caliphate. All that is really required for terrorism is that someone or some are passionate about an idea and that they see violence as part of the solution and part of the strategy. Madam President, I would like For me as a center party, the individual is at the centre. It is the individual who, together with others, builds our society. The freedom to build one's own life, think and think as one wishes and express it without monitoring and intervention by the state is fundamental. However, there are certain situations in which the state must be able to assume the right to control or supervise individuals. One of these concerns the protection from crime and terror. Therefore, the state must be given the opportunity to act. The fight against terrorism cannot be waged without loss of integrity. It's a sad fact. However, in times such as these, when troubled people are calling on us decision-makers to do something to prevent new attacks, we must, after all, remain calm and reasonably balanced. We're gonna make new laws. We will make laws that protect our safety and security. But we must not rush off with measures that may be ineffective or, at worst, counterproductive. We have to make laws that last over time and over the changes in power. I therefore attach great value to forthcoming proposals from the Terrorist Crime Investigation and talks between parties within the Terrorist Agreement. No matter how many tools we create for our police authorities to protect us from terrorism and other crime, and regardless of whether we should put up surveillance cameras everywhere and have secret computer readings in every computer in the country, we still depend on a functioning judiciary and stringent laws. Strengthening the laws that exist to criminalize associations is a way to go. Then, in objective and constitutional unity, we need to look at how we can also criminalise participation in terrorist organisations – here we agree – without prejudice to the freedom of association in the Constitution. That is why the definition of terrorist organisations is so important. It is so important that we in the Center Party believe that this must be made clear by the government returning with a definition or a clear mandate in the further work on regulation of legislation in this area. Madam President, I would like What scares me most is what can come out of the terrorist attacks: that some people want to go straight into the trap of terrorists and respond with more violence. Let us punish those who violate our laws! Let us create laws that simplify this but do not restrict everyone's freedom!
i-b14941aa535515ba-341	Madam President, I would like Creating clear and effective anti-terrorism legislation is not the strong suit of the government. Since 2015, the government has tried and failed. The number of persons convicted in Swedish courts for terrorist offences is small. So far, only three are doomed. It is the prevention, prevention and detection of terrorism before any crime takes place that is the difficult thing. Getting people who commit crimes convicted in court is not the same challenge. But preventing terrorism does not add the same energy to the government as they do to invent new classifications for the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's the government's big problem. The crime must be stopped before it's too late. The government has previously criminalised funding, travel and training for terrorism. This legislation is difficult to use, as the demarcation becomes almost impossible. What is funding? Is it sending money to some relative in another country who may have a connection to something like a terrorist organization? What happens if a person decides to travel and join Daish, but on the airport shuttle regrets and gets off? Has that person travelled for the purpose of terror? Looking at a YouTube clip on how the terrorist acts are carried out, is it training for terrorism? The same criticism is being raised in the Left Party regarding the bill we are debating today. The government wants to criminalize dealings with terrorist organizations. What the government has failed to do is mainly two things. The first is the definition of what a terrorist organisation really is. It's not clear anywhere. The other is what it means to have association. What we want to do through the legislation on joint crime is in many respects already criminalised. It is a matter of punishment for public exhortation, recruitment and training. This is a really bad way of legislating, because criminal law should be predictable. What is happening now is that there is a lot of different legislation. It doesn't matter how much a politician or a government wants to condemn, criticize, lock up and throw away the key for people who commit certain forms of crime – the legislation must nevertheless be predictable and easily understood and able to be used by the Swedish authorities. That is not the case today. What is now to be criminalised and part of the relationship is to take up arms, means of transport or to lend a local to a terrorist organisation. What does it mean, then, to take up a position with? Is that holding a gun? Is that shooting a gun? What happens to a property owner who thinks he rents out an association premises to an association that may prove to be defined as a terrorist organisation? Can the person who rents the association hall be convicted of terrorist crimes according to the joint crime? Probably. We don't know, because the government can't answer that. Further criminalisation takes place in something called a lot of other similar support. In its criticism, the Legislative Council points out that other similar support may include health professionals who provide care in war-affected areas or journalists who report from troubled areas. That journalists can be convicted of terrorist crimes, it is not criticism that we can take lightly. Overcriminalising a crime does not get to the problem of the crime being committed. When the Swedish Law Council, the Swedish Bar Association, the Swedish Migration Agency, Säpo, JK, the Swedish Referee Association is so critical of legislation, I think there is every reason for the government to listen. Therefore, the Left Party proposes that the bill be rejected, and I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Madam President, I would like Since the government cannot legislate effectively, one could wish that the opposition could be a slightly more moderate and reasonable critic of the government. This is not the case, because in the right parties it is even worse. The Moderates and the KD also want to criminalize those who participate in a terrorist organisation. It is therefore the proposal that the Law Council saw along the ankles because it is contrary to the constitutionally protected freedom of association. This shows the unserious attitude of the Moderates toward law and order. The party cannot grasp the reality at all. It can only black paint Sweden and seems to be the most depressed party that can only see things in a negative way. But it cannot be taken to heart by the Moderates, as it clashes with their political strategy. It is not possible to have just one legal proposal, which the Moderates have – more severe penalties – unless crime increases. Moderate tactics are only about picking political points of each individual crime that is being noticed in the media, trumpeting out that all of Sweden is collapsing, and then it is believed that the track is swept right into the Ministry of Justice. Yes, thank you, sir. The voters are smarter than that. The Moderates want chaos, and it's not serious. It's as serious as reinventing witch-burning to show that you take people's concerns seriously. If you just listen to Moderate rhetoric, Sweden is a criminal hell, an equally lawless country, al-Assad's Syria, and makes al-Assad's Syria act as a holiday paradise. The same applies to the purely formal handling of Parliament. The Moderates don't care about the Council's opinions. They ignore the Constitution and force them to legislate directly through the Riksdag and not through investigations and referrals. They dissipate the government's gang-criminal talks, and then they complain that nothing happens in Swedish politics. There is an enormous amount of irony that the Moderates' legal policy cannot even abide by the current legal order of how we legislate in Sweden. The Moderates are not a serious opposition when they cannot even relate to the Constitution, but in their eagerness to create dystopian newspaper headlines to show how seriously they are taking on crime is prepared to throw out the whole legal system right through the door and instead create chaos. I don't like chaos. I like order, law and order. This applies out on the streets and squares as well as inside the Swedish Parliament.
i-b14941aa535515ba-359	Madam President, I would like In today's debate, we will highlight the government's proposal for amendments to the law regarding special criminal liability for dealings with a terrorist organisation. Terrorism is a constant threat. Swedish jihadists have played an active role in the terrorist activities of the Islamic State, in acts of terrorism committed elsewhere in Europe, and we have also seen acts of terrorism in our own country. In 2017, deadly jihadism came to Sweden through the act on Drottninggatan. In parallel with the emergence of jihadism in Sweden, the terror cells of Nazism have also begun to show up again. Preparations for murder and bombing are the responsibility of that movement. Terrorism cannot overthrow our society, but it can do much harm. Sweden needs to do much more to stop the emergence of terrorism. People should be able to feel confident that transparency and human rights are respected, as well as the fundamental values of democracy. No one should have to feel the fear of expressing their opinion or of participating in political or religious meetings. During the year, we have seen several examples of forces that want something other than to protect transparency and human rights, forces that want to undermine democracy. Sweden must have a strong defence against these threats. Terrorism threatens international peace and security, national security and our fundamental rights and freedoms. According to the Swedish Security Service, approximately 300 people have travelled from Sweden to Syria and Iraq during the last six years. A hundred of these individuals have so far returned. They pose a safety risk. Sweden is less equipped than other EU countries to deal with the situation. There are of course also a large number of people who have been radicalized according to Säpo but have not gone to Syria. Not all of these are prepared to commit acts of terror. But it is individuals who can support, raise money, recruit and otherwise help with logistics. It's extremely serious. Averting terrorist threats is about safeguarding the absolute core tasks of the state above all others: the lives and security of the citizens. All in all, we Christian Democrats believe that efforts to prevent terrorism need to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have for many years been pushing the issue of criminalising association with, participation in and support for racist, terror-stamped or other organised crime. Now the government is trying to take credit for banning association with terrorist organisations. However, as mentioned earlier, the day before the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, the government parties voted against banning association. It took a terrorist attack in Stockholm for the government to wake up. We Christian Democrats are not satisfied with the proposals put forward. We believe that it should be made clear that no association or assistance to terrorist organisations should be tolerated in Sweden. We in our country have long had a far too permissive attitude towards those who challenge fundamental parts of our society. Any association with terrorist organisations should be criminalised. The same year that the Government of Löfven took office for the first time, the Islamic State was proclaimed, and travel from Sweden took off seriously. That should have been the start of a massive preparatory work. Instead, we can now conclude that the government has not so far given priority to this issue, and we are where we are right now. In our opinion, the government should have been more active and made sure that we had already made the necessary legislative changes several years ago in order to counteract the involvement of terrorist organisations and to ensure the security of our country. It should be mentioned that at the end of 2015, the Riksdag announced to the government that it should be criminalised to prepare, start or carry out a trip to another country for the purpose of planning or participating in terrorist acts. We can now conclude that the government is leaving a bill, which it has taken far too long to produce. It is a first step, but not a sufficient step, towards a comprehensive criminalisation in this area. As we have previously pointed out, it is also important to criminalise participation in a terrorist organisation. Pending such criminalisation, an important piece of the puzzle is missing in the fight against terrorism. However, as can be seen from the Opinion of the Legislative Council, such a regulation must be developed in the light of the provisions of the government form on freedom of association. Careful consideration is needed. That is why we Christian Democrats and a majority in committee believe it is important to set up this inquiry urgently. It is gratifying that the majority in committee sees that this needs to be done. I note that Joakim Sandell, who represents the government side, also believes that an investigation is important. Of course, you should also have supported the investigation, as we can see that although the announcement was made in 2015, we are here in January 2020 without the investigation being launched. Madam President, I would like We believe that the proposal's definition of association is too narrow and that much more forms of association should be criminalised. As has been mentioned by previous speakers, the scales of penalties for terrorist crime do not take sufficient account of the level of blame in the actions. The penalty needs to be tightened up. With this, I would like to call for reservation 3 on more stringent penalties. We need to take the land back to secure the safety of our citizens. A proper and robust piece of terror legislation is needed. Let's get to it now!
i-b14941aa535515ba-375	Madam President, I would like This is a product of a wide range of legislative changes and sharpenings that have been made to prevent and combat terrorism in recent years. It is welcome and important. Terror is to influence politically with violence and fear, and combating terrorism is one of the most important tasks we have in a democracy. This is an issue which is much debated and which has been debated for quite a long time. There are divisions and differences of opinion in some parts. But there is also – which I think is important in this context – a great consensus on the importance of dealing with the issue and combating terrorism. What we have seen in Syria and Iraq in recent years, before IS was fought back, is one of the worst and bloodiest horrors the world has seen. Madam President, I would like Since before, we have banned the financing of training in terror, the financing of terror, the reception of education, the preparation of travel, and so on. The fact that there are more laws and tools means that it will be possible to prevent Swedes from joining in the future in the way that has been done in another country to commit terrorist crimes or to somehow support a terrorist organisation. We hope, of course, that this will never be necessary. We hoped so earlier, but unfortunately it sometimes turns out that things do not turn out the way they hope to do. Sometimes it takes longer than we want to get new laws. But it is important that it is done properly. We have seen in the past that when laws have been brought forward they have not had the intended effect, and sometimes they have not been able to be used. This law, too, is not simple in its design. It is a crucial question what is meant by an organisation. We can clearly see that there are organisations that are very clearly organisations, but there are also times where it is not as clear. Historically, we have seen that there have been groups that have been terror classed but have been seen in a different way afterwards. On the issue of participation, too, I think that we must respect the fact that it is a complex issue and that we need to look at it properly. Fundamental changes are not something we should do lightly. When the product of association and participation came, the Law Council had extremely strong objections. The assessment was that if this had been presented it would not have been able to be used and would have been annulled by the court. Finally, Madam President, with regard to the terrorist events that have taken place, there are a number of those that we remember with sadness and horror and who have been very much discussed. In this context, I would like to mention the year 2016, when there were a long series of fires in asylum homes across Sweden. It is not at all certain that this would be classified as terrorism in what we have put forward, but so there are political influences with violence in different ways. It is not just about things that are happening far away in distant countries, but there is political influence with violence even closer to where we must fight at all times. Madam President, I would like I would like to express my support for reservation No 4.
i-b14941aa535515ba-383	Madam President, I would like I have to ask a few questions to the government representative Rasmus Ling in this context. As early as 2015, the government took a grip on further criminalisation when it comes to terrorism. At that time, the picture was well known when it came to developments in Syria and Iraq with IS progress. It was also well known which legislative proposals were on the table in several other countries in our vicinity when it comes, for example, to the participation crime and the withdrawal of citizenship for IS terrorists. As I said, this is something that has been well known. Not least, it was well known because the Swedish Democrats lifted the proposals on the table already in 2015. In spite of this, we have not, today, established a breach of participation by law with the procedure of the Red-Green Government. The fact that laws cannot be used to take a long time can be exemplified by the criminalisation of terrorist travel. The Swedish Democrats suggested earlier that it should be criminalised to travel to a country of citizenship – something that the government refused to institute. But then, a few years later, the government had to change this and criminalize it. If you listen to the opposition's proposals and take them on board, the legislation will be effective right from the start. I have a question. When the bill was on the table and when the development was well known, does Rasmus Ling believe that the government has been able to act when we do not yet have a participating crime in place?
i-b14941aa535515ba-388	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government has been able to act in the fight against terrorism. Last parliamentary term, two major block-crossing agreements were made with a wide range of measures. I mentioned several of them in my speech. It was ranging from the criminalisation of travel to education, funding and so on. For the Swedish Democrats, the rule of law or the time we have in Sweden with investigations is not important in order for it to go well to the point. They are prepared to throw this overboard and move on without knowing whether it will work in reality. It is not a serious way of conducting politics. The government has been capable of action, and much has been done. I have a question that I would like to put back in relation to Adam Marttinen's reply, which I'm glad he requested. The Swedish democrats have been upset by certain acts of terror, but far from everyone. How did high-ranking Swedish democrats react to the actions I mentioned in my speech on fires in asylum homes? They posted addresses. They indirectly called for this wave to continue. This shows that the Swedish Democrats are not against political violence but treat different people and different groups differently. That, Madam President, is more than regrettable.
i-b14941aa535515ba-391	Madam President, I would like I can be crystal clear on this point: the Swedish democrats have wanted to criminalise further, in every letter, in what Rasmus Ling concluded his speech with. The government has been against, for example, when it comes to fires, violence and threats against dissidents, against refugee camps and whoever it may be. Rasmus Ling doesn't have to be worried there. Rasmus Ling still claims that the government has been capable of action. There have been several cross-block consultations with the opposition, and several legislative proposals have been made in the form of proposals to criminalise terrorism. Why have several been needed? Why have there been several consultations? Why has this need to be dealt with time and again in the Swedish parliament? Because it has been inadequate from the beginning. If the Swedish Democrats had dealt with this issue in government, we would only have had a discussion and an opportunity to take decisions on sufficient legislation, which had already been in place. That is the difference between the Swedish Democrats and the Red Green Government. You have still not set up an investigation into the law in force in our neighbouring countries. This makes Sweden extremely vulnerable to terrorism. We have not been able to curb the terror that has developed in Syria and Iraq. We have no muscles to put against those who return to Sweden. We have no way of depriving citizens of those who have joined Syria and Iraq. They will continue to be Swedish citizens and stay on Swedish streets without any major penalty. That is the result of the red-green government. It is not the power to act; it is to have had the head in the sand for far too long. It must end as soon as possible, by 2022 at the latest.
i-b14941aa535515ba-396	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member seems to think that it is possible to deal with a political area, whatever it is, by making proposals, deciding on them and then thinking that it is ready. That's not how it works. That is not how it works in the field of taxation, it does not work in the field of education and that is not how it works when we fight terrorism. No other country that has laws and rules to tackle terror has done so either. When time changes and things change, you also change laws, and before you decide on laws you prepare the way they are designed. With regard to the issue of the incitement of high-ranking Swedish democrats in 2016, among other things, Adam Marttinen claims that this has been fought back with full force. If so, why was it accepted that high-ranking Swedish democrats posted addresses online? Why has it not been reacted harder to? Why were no measures taken? I think it's most peculiar.
i-b14941aa535515ba-398	Madam President, I would like The question of how to combat terrorism is arduous. It is difficult and requires reflection. The work has been going on for a long time. I think I and the Liberals are among those who think that sometimes things have gone a little too slowly. The main part of this report is that we agree to criminalise relations now, late but yet. In the main investigation on which this was based, there was also the idea of criminalising participation. However, this was then removed, due to quite extensive criticism from the Law Council. The fact that the idea was included in the Council of Law referral was due to the existence of another legal school which claimed that it must be possible to prohibit activity despite the Constitution. We talk about freedom of association, that you are free to organise yourself in all kinds of sick associations – a lot of people write to us in the Riksdag, I can say. Let people do it! We're a free country. Let people organize themselves in all kinds of sick organizations, please! But we couldn't really imagine, nor could we imagine the writer of the investigation and the lawyer's referral, that it would be allowed to have an association that has the greatest idea to cut off people's heads and put them on iron skewers. It's a very odd association, and the act itself is very illegal. Now, however, the Law Council concluded that the freedom of association in terms of participating in military or similar organisation or engaging in persecution of minorities is not applicable in this. That is why there is now a majority in the committee, which the Liberals support. That is why the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Center Party have reservations about the urgent need to come up with a new investigation into how we can change the Constitution, whether it is necessary to criminalise terrorist organisations engaged in manifestly illegal activities and to criminalise the crime of participation. That's the thing. It is surprising that one chooses to reserve, not least from the government parties. We need to move forward here. If we are to have a constitutional amendment before the next elections, we must decide on it now and then be able to take it a second time after the next elections, so that we can get to grips with the current lack of regulation as soon as possible. The caliphate built insane – excuse the strong expression, Madam President – organisations and activities around people with severe delusions. But whether you're there to cook pea soup or peel oranges, you're involved in this, and it's supposed to be criminal. You should meet with the police who arrest you if you have the idea to get back to Sweden at all. Otherwise, there is a basis in the terrorist investigation to review the entire scale of penalties. Even between completed acts of terrorism, which are considered worse than the general devastation in general that people are engaged in in in Sweden right now, and the acts of terror that we can unfortunately read about daily in our newspapers and take part in the media, and that happen in reality and affect ordinary people, there must be proportionality on the scale of penalties. Therefore, there is an investigation that is now looking at this, and that is why the Liberals are saying: Let the investigation come as soon as possible! We intend to continue, just like those who have reserved themselves on the issue of the scales of penalties, to chase the government to come forward with this. We must have uniformity and a reasonable grading of these penalties, but the penalties must be clear and tangible. One important point that I thought some members of the committee were well-emphasised here is the importance of prevention. Even when we are talking about a specific penalty and criminalisation, as we are doing now, we must always remember that the way forward, Madam President, is that we are doing everything we can to prevent and give the opportunity to judge at all. As far as the Liberals are concerned, it is clear that the work now under way on the Electronic Communications Act, which the Head of the Säpo is highlighting in a debate article today, is of a serious nature and that this must be taken on board. There can be no difference if I send text messages that I will blow up a bomb on any street in Sweden or if I use another digital platform to send the same message. There must be technology neutrality here, and that is the entrance of the Liberals. This may not lie primarily in the area of justice, but it is very important that we keep an eye on this in order to be able to combat terrorism in the long term. To return to prevention, we liberals believe that it would be very good if the Centre against violent extremism were transferred to the police and became part of their activities to ensure that new people are not recruited into madness all the time. Whether it's left or right-wing extremists, Islamists or some other religious orientation – it usually varies over time – their work jacket in the police's work needs to be better. Then you belong with the police and not with the Crime Prevention Council, for many different reasons. I also think we need to look at this with funding. Where's the money coming from? Liberals are strongly in favour of increased transparency in the Folkbildningsrådet. We have lots of smaller authorities in Sweden with worthy and important purposes, but this activity must be given greater transparency. We need to know what our money is for. It is incredibly good that courses are organised in boat ownership, makramé and drejning, but when it comes to money that is sent out through the Folkbildningsrådet to all sorts of madness, we must have better transparency in order to put an end to this, Madam President. I support the committee's proposal.
i-b14941aa535515ba-410	Madam President, I would like I feel compelled to go up to the pulpit and condemn the horrifying claim that environmentalist Rasmus Ling made earlier in the line with me. As far as the fires at refugee homes are concerned, it was claimed that we have set up addresses with the aim of getting people to burn down refugee homes – to expose people to arson. This is a perfectly hideous statement that has nothing to do with reality. The fact that we as political parties are calling on people to appeal to building permits is not tantamount to calling on people to burn people to death in their homes. I totally reject this, and I hope that Rasmus Ling will think about the accusation he makes in this House. This does not remove the fact that the government is slow. It is clear that legislative proposals on terrorism have been tabled since the beginning of the Red-Green Government's time in the Government Office. The world around us has been clear on developments. We have seen everything that has happened, the developments and the proposals, but we still do not have an on-the-spot investigation into a breach of participation. This is a clear rejection of the Red Green Government. You haven't been able to act, end of story.
i-b14941aa535515ba-412	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the letter to be added to the file and for reservation 1 to be accepted. Last Friday a crograzzia was performed at Möllan in Malmö. In addition to the police and the municipality, the Swedish Tax Agency, Kronofogden and the Swedish Work Environment Agency also participated. Friday's raid was part of Operation Rimfrost, the special effort to overcome serious organized crime. Cooperation between state authorities and Malmö Municipality is nothing new. Two years ago, for example, the project Tryggare Malmö was launched, which aims to clear up in the black Malmö, which is a source of organised crime and extremely gang crime. Together, the authorities hunt, for example, illegal clubs, rogue property owners, illegal housing and unregistered food companies. Madam President, I would like For example, during Friday's raid, the police found cannabis behind the bar in one of the restaurants, and a wanted person was arrested and handed over to the border police. The IRS discovered ambiguities in human resources that are now to be investigated further. Tryggare Malmö is an example of how cooperation between authorities looks like in Sweden today. Madam President, I would like Organised crime constitutes a serious threat to society, and effective combating of this type of crime requires a wide range of actors to cooperate and act. It is therefore very important that the joint work of the authorities against organised crime should work well. Since 2008, judicial and non-judicial authorities have been working together to combat organised crime. Madam President, I would like Governance and coordination of public activities may not always be a kiosk roller, but it is very important. Good governance and coordination increase the opportunities for good results and lead to more efficient use of resources. At the same time, Madam President, it is sometimes a little more complicated than it seems. This is by no means an excuse, but tell me the municipal politician who does not talk about better interaction between, for example, school and social services, the regional politician who does not talk about better interaction between, for example, hospitals and primary care, or the rich politician who does not talk about better interaction between our various authorities. Madam President, I would like The Government's assessment is that the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the joint work of the public authority and the government's governance are largely functioning satisfactorily. However, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out in its report, the government's control of the cooperation authorities' participation in the joint work of the agencies may in some cases need to be clarified. The Government therefore intends to continue to monitor the work closely and, for example, consider whether there is a need to review the instructions for any or some of the relevant authorities at an appropriate time. Madam President, I would like We assume that the government will follow the joint work of the authorities in the manner indicated and that it is ready to review the direction, governance and follow-up of this work as a matter of urgency should such a need arise. We will follow this matter closely, but we do not believe that there is any reason to propose any such announcements as the committee is now proposing. Finally, Madam President, governance, coordination and follow-up are important, but it is also important that we, as decision-makers, listen to the authorities' requests for measures to improve the fight against serious organised crime. Here we need to be able to take off our ideological blindfolds. For example, in view of Friday's crograzzia in Möllan, the cooperating authorities describe the systematic use of work permits that exist, for example, to access welfare funds or exploit foreign labour in Sweden. Since the work permit is initially linked to the employer, the worker risks becoming in an unhealthy position of dependence, particularly in the case of low-paid professions. All authorities advocate a labour market policy assessment before deciding on work permits. We should listen to that.
i-b14941aa535515ba-422	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on joint work by the authorities against organised crime. I support the committee's proposal. Unfortunately, this is an overly topical subject. Sweden has very big problems with serious crime linked to criminal gangs. Over 60 areas in Sweden are classified as vulnerable. In these, the criminal gangs hold decent people in an iron grip. The gangs commit serious crimes and scare witnesses to silence. When the Moderates were in government in 2008, we took the initiative to commission twelve authorities to work together to combat organised crime. It is the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Financial Crime Agency, the Swedish Criminal Service, the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Immigration Service and the Swedish Public Employment Service that form part of this cooperation. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed how this cooperation works. During the period 2013 – 2018, the authorities have together closed 2.8 million hours of work and had costs of at least SEK 1.4 billion. The audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office has revealed many serious shortcomings. The government has not ruled the authorities clearly enough. No authority had the work explicitly included in its regulation letter for 2018. The activities shall be financed from the administrative appropriations of the authorities. The authorities are therefore to decide for themselves how much of the appropriation is to be used for this purpose. Five authorities have requested money for this without receiving it from the government. Four authorities consider the funding to be problematic. The majority of the authorities consider it problematic that the government has not clarified how they should prioritise this work in relation to other activities. Madam President, I would like This will be a problem for the whole of cooperation. If one authority prioritises this high and another low, there is an imbalance in cooperation that can adversely affect the whole result. The Swedish National Audit Office has also concluded in its review that the follow-up is inadequate in terms of both the joint work and the respective parts of the authorities. The follow-up is mainly carried out through a joint annual report prepared by the Police Authority. The government has informal dialogues with the authorities, but neither do these take place on a regular basis. There is also a lack of regular coordination between the departments responsible, and according to the Swedish National Audit Office, no department has overall responsibility for the joint work of the authorities. The authorities have had goals for the business but feel that they find it difficult to evaluate whether they have reached the goals or not. They also find it difficult to evaluate the effects and societal benefits. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion is bitter criticism of the government's work. It is poor governance and poor follow-up of the operation. It is therefore impossible to say whether the work is effective. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Government to ensure that these deficiencies are addressed. Madam President, I would like What is the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report? Well, the government finds that the time and resources spent by the cooperating authorities in the fight against organised crime have produced good results. The Government replies that some measures are being considered in view of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. In other words, the government does not take the shortcomings seriously. Some measures are being considered. There are no indications that the work has not worked effectively and effectively," says the Government in the letter. I can give you some indications regarding 2019: There have been 320 shootings with 41 dead and many injured. It was 257 bombings. Several properties have been bombed. The bombings have increased by about 60% in a year. Just over a week ago, a property on Östermalm was bombed to pieces. The same night bombings took place in Uppsala. A couple were found murdered in their villa in Vallentuna. Young man shot to death in Jordbro. Young man shot dead in the King's curve. The night of Tuesday: two bombs against properties in Husby and Kista. One person was injured, and about fifty terrified people had to flee in the middle of the night from their bombed house with glass and tin fragments everywhere. And the night of today there was another bombing in Norrköping. "Mom and Dad said it was a bomb," said a ten-year-old boy in connection with the Husby bombings. Imagine a ten-year-old boy waking up in the middle of the night from the explosion, and the parents say it's a bomb! Poor kid running away in the middle of the night! How do you think these kids are doing? They will have difficulties for a long time to come. Will they dare to sleep at home at all? It is not just because the danger is over, but it will leave a psychological mark on adults and, above all, children for a long, long time to come. It's just terrible! All the things I read are things that have happened in just over a week. Innocent people are in danger of life on a daily basis. The situation is acute, but the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government is in a state of hand. Criminals have taken over, and the Löfven One did not see this coming. I wonder how naive a prime minister can be. This has been going on for many years! The majority of the Committee on Justice believes that the government should remedy the shortcomings highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office in the report. That is why this report announces this to the government. At the end of 2019, the Police Authority submitted the Report on the Common Situation of the Authority on Organised Crime, i.e. the reporting available on the work. The report before that was submitted in 2017, two years earlier – not one year. The conclusions are that the previous picture of the situation remains. Social crime is particularly highlighted, and it is stressed that organised crime is using increasingly severe violence, often linked to drugs in vulnerable areas. The police report makes many recommendations to the government. It remains to be seen whether the government takes the report seriously and tries to remedy the shortcomings. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that much more needs to be done to combat organised crime. Last week we took a committee initiative for an extraordinary amending budget for 2020. In this welfare and security package, we already want to increase resources by 5.5 billion. Of this money 2.6 billion goes to strengthen security in Sweden. Most of it goes to the police. The government's response to our rescue package is to invest 750 million. It's very little. It won't go far. That's almost 2 billion less than what we Moderates are betting. In addition to the rescue package, we Moderates want double penalties for gang-related crimes, abolishing the quantity rebate, abolishing the youth rebate, tightening parole and expelling far more criminals. The latter, i.e. expelling foreign criminals, is very important. Some time ago, Expressen made a survey of convicted gang criminals. The survey included 192 persons, 40 per cent of whom were born abroad. The government has lost control of crime. This is easy to note after all the bombings and shootings. The government, with Löfven at its head, says they're gonna break the gangs. They have now been sitting for five and a half years and have failed completely. There's a lot of things you say you should do, but there's far too little going on. Madam President, I would like I say as Ulf Kristersson: If you can't lead the country, you shouldn't lead the country. Sweden needs a new government. We Moderates are ready.
i-b14941aa535515ba-448	Madam President, I would like The joint work of the authorities on organised crime is one of the most important in the fight against this type of crime. The fact that different authorities with different assignments go together and do what they do best and can also share information between themselves and work together allows the work to move forward. For a few years, I sat on the Swedish Parliament's Tax Committee, which is responsible for the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. There are three key players in this work that need to be given priority and given instructions to prioritise this in order for it to move forward. There are many other actors who are also involved in different ways, ranging from the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Public Employment Service. Working together can achieve good results. In the 34-point programme launched in September, an important part was to reinforce this. That was one of the points that we in the Green Party worked out. The work is largely aimed at accessing the money, which is the engine of gang crime and which leads to settlements, shootings and explosions. In addition to the twelve authorities involved, we see that more people can contribute – I can exemplify with the Swedish Transport Agency, which can help with the problems that exist with cars that are being handled illegally. Among the improvements that have resulted from this work are the fact that the police, once they have stayed known criminals, have also been able to make distance measurements through contact with Kronofogden when it came to people in debt. There have been several such examples that have been very successful and that have enabled these individuals to be accessed. In the future, it will also be important to involve municipal authorities more clearly in the work. When it comes to problems in restaurants and restaurants, problems with exploitation, cheating and illegality, municipal authorities such as the environmental administration can be with the police and together make raids. Madam President, I would like The letter and the Swedish National Audit Office's report indicate that there is potential for improvement in the governance, management and follow-up of this. At the same time, we should know that everyone involved in this also points to the importance of the work that has been done and that it has produced results. What we need to take with us is to improve governance, management and follow-up and to have clear goals for the work so that we can better monitor how things have actually gone. I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus on the importance of us continuing to do this and that we will develop the joint work of the authorities. It is an essential key for us to be able to come forward and fight gang crime.
i-b14941aa535515ba-457	Madam President, I would like Rasmus Ling is an environmental party, and the Green Party is in the government. That's why I thought I'd ask you a few questions. In the report from the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish National Audit Office says that the government has had poor governance and poor follow-up. The authorities themselves say that it is difficult to value this cooperation. It is difficult to assess whether the objectives have been achieved and whether it is difficult to evaluate the impact and societal benefits. During 2013 – 2018 this cooperation cost SEK 1.4 billion. It's a lot of money, and you don't even know if it has had any effect or social benefit. The police state in the report they submitted at the end of 2019 that the situation is unchanged, referring to the previous report, which was submitted in 2017. They say the situation is unchanged after two years. So there has been no progress in two years. And the report from the police department is the only report there is. The authorities involved in this and doing the job cannot say whether it has produced any effect or social benefit. The police, who are the only ones who have written a report on the work, say that the situation remains unchanged after the two years that have passed. Yet the government says it has produced good results. How can the government say that it has produced good results when those who work with this do not say so but say that it is unchanged and that they can see no effect at all? How can the government say that these are good results? What's the basis for that?
i-b14941aa535515ba-462	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Swedish National Audit Office writes in its report that better governance and better management are needed and that the objectives need to be more clearly defined. The government has also said that this should be done – partly in the response and partly in the 34-point programme, to which I referred earlier. The fact that there is not enough control should not be interpreted as meaning that the work is pointless or pointless, as Ellen Juntti sounds suggest. It cost 1.4 billion. Yes, that is certainly a lot of money. But there are many authorities involved, and when it results, it is well-invested money. I do not hope, Madam President, that the Moderates want to see it wasted. What, then, is the evidence that this is producing results? I'm thinking of contacts with the authorities I've been involved in. We have transparency councils where all political parties represented in Parliament sit. Then the police are very clear that this should not be read as having no effect. The work has been very useful. It has also evolved. It needs to continue to evolve, and so should it. But I am absolutely convinced that this is one of the key jobs that we need to do. I hope the Moderates don't think 1.4 billion is wasted money.
i-b14941aa535515ba-466	Madam President, I would like No, I think that this cooperation is very good, and it will continue. But I want it to produce results. In the report submitted by the Police Authority, which concerns the last two years, they say that the situation is unchanged. The authorities say that they cannot see whether they have achieved the goals, whether it has had an effect and whether it has brought any benefit to society. I think that's a very bad rating of that cooperation. Of course, I want it to work, but this must not be the case, but it must be a little better. The promise says the government will do anything to break the gangs. It's a lot, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going to go, we're going, we're When are you going to do anything at all? Now the government has been in office for five and a half years. That's a lot. That's a lot. That's a lot. It needs to start producing a little bit too. We Moderates want double punishment for gang criminals. That's what the government says no to. We want to minimize the quantity discount. That's what the government says no to. We want to remove the youth discount. You'll say no to that. You will change it a little bit, but you do not want to remove the youth discount. This applies, therefore, to adult persons aged 18 to 21. Many of them are professionals who commit very serious crimes. You want them to have a discount. We don't want that. Then we want to expel a great many more foreign criminals. Given that there are actually very many gang criminals with foreign background, it is a reasonable request: that we should not let them remain in Sweden and commit crimes. Morgan Johansson has said at some point that he intends to come back to this and that he also thinks so, but nothing is happening.
i-b14941aa535515ba-473	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of issues that are not really related to what we are now discussing. In the case of criminal expulsions, there is an investigation that will make a proposal. Then it will be handled in the Government Office and by the Riksdag. It's a process that's going on. Let's see what you find out. What we are actually discussing is that there have been problems with monitoring and that it has been difficult to measure the exact effect. This does not mean that this has been of no use. That's a really weird conclusion to draw. We will improve the work and follow-up – it is about political responsibility and what is being pointed out here – so that you know exactly which department is to convene others and how this is to be followed up. It is absolutely crucial to strengthen that work. Madam President, I would like Finally, it's about Junttis Ellen's long harang. She claims nothing's happening. I think it's a moderate guilty conscience. We have prioritised the judiciary – the police, but also other judicial authorities. Today, the police are stronger and have more tools, more employees and more funds than they have ever had before. Ellen Juntti may think that you should have done more when you had eight years and also had the responsible minister. But now we have actually strengthened this. It is not enough; it will need to be done more in the future. But that there was a change of course after the turn of the government in 2014 is beyond doubt.
i-b14941aa535515ba-478	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Justice Committee's report No 12 on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the joint work of the authorities against organised crime. The report shows significant shortcomings in the government's coordination of authorities in this work. This is happening at a time when organised crime is ravaging Sweden and where shootings and blasts are beginning to normalize. Day after day, new acts of violence occur, and the light at the end of the tunnel cannot yet be seen. At the same time, the government beats its chest. It claims that much has been achieved, that the situation is taken seriously and that what can be done to restore security is done. The fact that this picture of beauty is not correct is becoming increasingly apparent. The Swedish National Audit Office is also now taking note of this. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the joint work of the authorities requires efforts from the authorities that participate but also from the government. The government should be the leading, coordinating and follow-up force. The government should be the body that has an active interest in combating organised crime. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are concerned that according to the report, the government has delegated too much responsibility to the individual authorities and that it has been too passive and absent from the coordinating work. There has also been a lack of awareness of the experiences that could have formed the basis for future legislation. It is therefore particularly welcome that the majority of the committee in this report has pushed forward and is proposing announcements that the government should more clearly coordinate the joint work of the authorities and that the government should follow up the work in order to ensure a better basis for taking decisions on the work ahead. Madam President, I would like This is precisely something in which the government has unfortunately distinguished itself in several respects. The government in the form of various representatives has often flaunted with reforms, punitive measures and initiatives – investments far below what the opposition and individual authorities feel is needed, punitive measures that are both below what is required and what the parliament has announced to be applicable and reforms that have been fought against for years, and then paraded forward as its own. The government cannot simply copy the criminal policy of the Swedish Democrats and other parties and consider itself ready. There is hopefully also evidence from law enforcement authorities that a government party should and must take advantage of. It is good that Parliament agrees with this report and once again pushes the government forward on this important issue. In doing so, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-b14941aa535515ba-485	Madam President, I would like In today's debate, we will highlight the Swedish National Audit Office's report on joint work by public authorities against organised crime. Since 2009, twelve agencies have been working together, and in 2018, nine more agencies were linked to the work of a network. The cooperation is led by the Police Authority and has had a good effect and increased knowledge in each authority about how serious crime can be combated. In order to succeed in breaking crime, purely police and criminal action is not enough; civil action by civil authorities is often at least as effective. Once the stakes are synchronised, they have the best effect. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the joint work of the authorities and made a couple of recommendations to the Government. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the government's governance shows shortcomings in the lack of mandates in the regulations or instructions to the cooperating authorities, the lack of funding and the government's failure to monitor the work properly. There is also no coordinating function, and no department has the main responsibility for the work. Nevertheless, the Government notes that there is no reason to follow the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to any significant degree. The government's conclusions of the criticism are remarkably weak. It merely states that the Government intends to consider whether there is a need to review the instructions for any or some of the authorities concerned at an appropriate time. It is difficult to imagine a vaguer formulation. The Government further notes that the results of collaboration are difficult to measure in some respects, but nevertheless does not take on board the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to follow up the work in a more structured way. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that several of the authorities have sought money to cope with the joint work of the authorities against crime, but no one has received special funds in the budget for this. In addition, the regulatory letters do not specify how the part of the budget to be devoted to the work is to be carried out. The fact is that the regulatory letters to the relevant authorities do not have any mandates for the joint work of the authority. The authorities believe that the lack of money and governance hampers their mission. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that the shortcomings highlighted in the national audit report should be addressed. The joint work of the authorities against organised crime is certainly working at the moment, but with better governance, resources and better follow-up to tackle problems quickly it could work even better. And it needs to work better. Organised crime is growing in Sweden and has gained ground in alarming ways. This applies both to the systematic use of compensation systems and to the dissemination of culture of silence. It's about how extremism takes hold. The composite picture is that this risks having a system-threatening character. It is therefore of the utmost importance that all available measures are taken to stop this. Then it is not good enough, as the government writes, to consider whether there is a need. The Government must play a more active role in steering the joint work of the public authority. Governance of the work should not only work now but also for the foreseeable future. With twelve cooperating authorities, many of whom do not have law enforcement as their main mission, future pitfalls need to be avoided. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that this can be done by following the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. The government should therefore direct a joint law enforcement mission to the authorities, appoint a department responsible for the mission and clearly earmark funds for the law enforcement mission. It is therefore gratifying that a majority in the committee takes a different position from that of the government parties in the committee and agrees with an announcement that gives the government a clear mandate to ensure that governance is regularly coordinated and monitored and that it is also clear which initiatives are to be made in budgetary terms. Madam President, I would like With clearer governance, the fight against organised crime, which is already achieving results, will reach a higher level and improve access to and countering organised crime in Sweden. This is an important part of the work to achieve greater security in our society. With this, I call for the committee's proposal for a declaration to be approved.
i-b14941aa535515ba-498	Madam President, I would like Serious crime is in the process of ingesting the social body of Sweden. In the reports that are coming, not least on the cooperation of authorities that we are now debating, we see how new steps are being taken in the welfare sector. It is about wage guarantees, it is about fraud with CSN, it is about fraud with assistance companies. There are a lot of areas where serious crime is eating into society. If you add this to the more spectacular activity and the unimaginable development of explosions and shootings in our country, it is clear that more needs to be done. It is not enough for us to create the largest ever increase in the police force in Sweden during this parliamentary term. Effective collaboration is also needed. When it comes to the report from the Swedish National Audit Office, the government responds a little laconically, the majority who want to sharpen the message to the government. The Liberals are very much behind this. It agrees with the observation that the government has left it to the authorities to decide how to prioritise the joint work of the authority in relation to other activities. We want to see a responsibility taken on by the Liberals. The government should take the lead in this, as we point out in the report. In the absence of this, however, we in the Liberals believe that it is also important to give the police a clear responsibility to lead the work. After all, all the authorities have their missions that are important. The IRS believes that their cause is the most important. The Social Insurance Agency believes that their mission is the most important. Then you have different goals. The example I usually use is that if the Swedish Tax Agency has a number of possible suspected cases of tax evasion, tax evasion or criminality in front of it, you probably want to take what can give the most money to the state. It can feel good, because it is their mission to reduce tax errors and withdraw as much money as possible. The police can say, however, that if you go on these 5 million... instead of going on a random person who engages in tax evasion in any country or in strange shell companies that have leaked out of some Panama documents... that could mean we are taking out three branches of organised crime. They must also be fought, I would like to emphasise, but let the police say what is most important. The Swedish Tax Agency will then be better able to beat the bones of organised and serious crime, which will otherwise continue to eat into the community body. Madam President, I would like It is therefore easy to support this report, and the Liberals have the strong view that the government must take greater responsibility for coordination and so on so that the work is led forward. Otherwise, we run the risk of not getting it for the money we need in the fight against serious crime. Investing in individual authorities in criminal investigations, such as Försäkringskassan, Skatteverket or the police, risks not having an effect. There is a positive effect today, but it is possible to do even more better.
i-b14941aa535515ba-505	Madam President, I would like Mr Hunt would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. For us Moderates, foreign policy is an important issue. It is important where Sweden is in the world. International relations are important. Market economy is important. Democracy, the principles of the rule of law and human rights are important. We are fully behind this. Furthermore, this means that we also believe that the human rights of women and girls are of central importance. But from there to a particular policy is something quite different. I would also like to mention that in 1995 when the Vienna Declaration was adopted, by 189 countries, with a platform for action, at a UN conference on women's rights, Hillary Clinton, as the first lady of the United States, stated that human rights are women and women are human rights. It can't be more true than that. Now 25 years have passed since the Vienna Declaration was adopted, and the issue of girls' and women's rights is as topical now as it was then. The government has adopted a feminist foreign policy. But in a feminist foreign policy, there should be not only a will but also measurable goals and an idea of how to achieve them. What is the priority, and what is not the priority? I will come back to this later. I mentioned at the outset that all girls and women should be subject to human rights and have the same rights and freedoms as men and boys. It's obvious. But that is not the case today on earth. There are several examples that testify to the opposite. Equality is a question of freedom; freedom to choose one's life. Freedom means not being treated differently. Lack of equality limits women's everyday lives and freedom, opportunities and future. But it can also be a case of derogatory comments, reductions, in the worst cases gross violations and sexual violence and abuse. None of this is acceptable. Sweden is seen as one of the world's most equal societies. Women and men can combine family life and working life. We can choose how we want to live our lives. But it has also emerged that there are many challenges in Sweden. Every third woman is insecure during the evenings in her own residential area. Too few sexual crimes are investigated and cleared up. Victims do not feel that they receive the support they need. Honorary culture exists in the form of anti-female traditions and structures. When we get to the economy, it turns out that women work and earn less than men do, receive lower pensions, have more difficulty starting businesses and start fewer businesses. Since the 1980s, women have had higher absenteeism than men. More women than men leave work prematurely because of ill health. When opportunities for jobs and self-sufficiency are few, gender equality risks reducing. In order to be credible internationally, Sweden needs to work actively to remedy gender inequality nationally. I stress this because I lack this humility in international equality policy – the foreign policy platform. The International Center for Research on Women, a non-political think tank based in Washington, has analysed feminist foreign policy. What they have found is that it is difficult to follow where the money goes, that is, the money that goes to feminist foreign policy. It is also difficult to make a link between the use of financial interventions and their results. I would also like to mention that the International Center for Research on Women works for women's global rights. What ICRW found was that there is no independent evaluation. They also believe that there is no way of assessing whether policies have even achieved some of the objectives that have been set. They clearly say that Swedish diplomats and politicians talk about women's and girls' rights, participate in and arrange conferences, but they wonder what has become of this. What are the results? They stress the need for concrete measurements of results. ICRW cites an example in the report which I find interesting, namely that Germany and Canada granted asylum and emergency medical and psychological assistance in connection with the murders of Yazidian women. But what did Sweden do with its feminist foreign policy? What happened there in the international arena? Another event that has also been mentioned in a number of other contexts concerns metoo. What did the Swedish government do during the Metoo? How did Sweden act internationally? Now I am thinking not of speeches in the Swedish parliament but of international foreign policy. ICRW says that Sweden talks and speaks but wonders where action and results are. UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was adopted to protect and involve women in peace-keeping and peace-building work. The resolution is adopted by 83 countries including the United States. It is therefore sad to have to say that it has unfortunately been shown that UN personnel do not always respect women's and girls' rights but that they are being abused. Here we can all think of Anders Kompass, the Swedish UN official who took the initiative and actively acted in a very honorable way. This testifies to the fact that women and girls should be able to have high confidence in UN personnel and never have to doubt that they should not be abused. It's extremely important. I would also like to mention the importance of women's participation in conflict resolution. Between 1990 and 2014, 1 168 peace agreements were signed. Only 18% of these refer to women. I think this underlines how important it is for women to be included in peace work and to be included. I would now like to move from what ICRW has said to talking about Ci Holmgren on Swedish Radio. She has also tried to analyse the goals and results reported by the government. Ci Holmgren says that it is a question of vague wording that works for and strives towards. However, achieving a concrete result to strengthen women's rights also requires measurable targets such as fewer unwanted pregnancies and fewer abuse. I do not mean from a world perspective, but it needs to be properly defined. In Concord's report How feminist is Sweden's foreign policy? 12 organisations have analysed whether the government has acted in line with feminist foreign policy. Their review shows that the ambition has given some impressions while the gender perspective is lacking in several important decisions and issues. It mentions trade policy as an area. Time's running out, and I'm really gonna stop. But I think this is important, because if women are to have a chance to actually manage their finances and become independent, women need to be able to make a living. There is a great potential for improvement here, and this is an issue that is not discussed in the same way. I would also like to mention that, in its 2019 evaluation, the OECD has several valuable conclusions. It is mentioned positively that Sweden is ambitious and works for peace, conflict prevention and a sustainable and equal society. But the OECD also says in its report that in order to do more on the international stage and when it comes to feminist foreign policy, you need to involve the private sector, build partnerships and involve Swedfund. Of course, one needs to focus on doing this for a longer time, because it takes time to achieve results, and delimit what one wants to achieve so that it can be measured. Knowledge development, innovation processes and developed cooperation are needed. There is no strategic independent evaluation. I can mention more. I mention this because, if the position of women is to improve, women must have the opportunity for education, security, work and the rule of law. They must be able to become entrepreneurs, Madam President. This is missing according to three different reports that I have mentioned here and which highlight examples of what needs to be improved. In many of these contexts, Canada is mentioned as an example worth considering. This is because Canada, in its so-called feminist foreign policy, has been clear with examples, concrete objectives and measurability. Let me give you a few examples. If all school pupils leaving comprehensive school, especially girls, have basic literary skills, extreme poverty is estimated to be reduced by 12% worldwide. If women living in conflict zones are involved in the peace process, the chance of peace agreements lasting at least 15 years increases by 35%. Madam President, I would like This shows how important it is that women have the same rights as men and that girls have the same opportunities as boys.
i-b14941aa535515ba-530	Madam President, I would like In 2014, the government declared that a feminist foreign policy had been established. Now the government has presented its first letter on this, Sweden's feminist foreign policy, which describes the government's work on gender equality and women's and girls' rights globally. We in Sweden Democrats are in favour of a Swedish foreign policy line that promotes women's and girls' rights globally. Unfortunately, however, we see that several important priorities are missing from the letter. There are, among other things, areas where the government has repeatedly received justified criticism and where, despite the criticism, it has continued to pursue a direct anti-women's foreign policy. Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that the government can even call itself feminist at the same time as it approaches the totalitarian, Islamic dictatorship in Iran when the government's female representatives go there dressed in veils. Iranian women have made considerable sacrifices to have their fundamental human rights recognised while the regime continues to do everything in its power to oppress their attempts at self-determination over their own bodies and lives. The Swedish Government does not choose to actively distance itself from this by refusing to submit to the veil on the spot. Instead, they choose to actively approach the Iranian regime, including through a clear welcome of its Foreign Minister to Stockholm in autumn 2019. We in the Swedish Democrats see with great concern how Sweden's so-called feminist government makes these advances to the Iranian regime and its anti-female consequences. Madam President, I would like Other things we are concerned about are the anti-Israeli foreign policy of the government, which in the long run is directly anti-female, and the recognition of the Palestinian so-called state by the government. It is a so-called state that systematically oppresses women, but nevertheless the so-called feminist government of Sweden chooses to directly support the oppression of the anti-female Palestinian Authority. The government's symbolic political stance has caused irreversible damage to Sweden's relations with the State of Israel and the Jewish people in Sweden, Israel and the world over. In the Swedish Democrats' motion on development policy, we describe more closely the proposals that our party is presenting to really promote women's rights globally, including in Afghanistan and Somalia, for example. For example, we want to withdraw the government's recognition of the repressive Palestinian Authority as a state. In addition, we want to see the phasing out of aid funds as long as the Authority does not meet fundamental human rights requirements. Another area that we have emphasised in our foreign policy is the work of reducing and banning girls abroad. The problematic situation with girls is particularly worrying in the totalitarian Communist Party's China but also in several Muslim cultures where girls are seen as less valuable. In the light of the tools described by the government in its letter, it would be important for trade talks to give priority to increased Chinese accountability in the field of human rights. Madam President, I would like We believe that there is much to be desired by the government in terms of Sweden's accountability in relation to totalitarian and oppressive regimes such as China and Iran. Particular attention should be paid to all forms of female oppression, sexual trafficking, child marriage, abuse and other forms of violence such as female genital mutilation. It is against this background that the Swedish Democrats are very critical of the government's approach to regimes around the world where these problems are both widespread and well documented. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Institute runs a program called She Leads. It is a programme aimed at female leadership in Saudi Arabia. We want to provide resources to develop the programme and apply it to more countries in the area. Madam President, I would like Dissatisfaction with the government's so-called feminist foreign policy among Swedish voters has been widespread, as expressed in protests and demonstrations, for example, when the government welcomed Iran and the recognition of the Palestinian Authority as a state. We believe that the government's positions in several of these cases have shown a lack of judgment and inability to stand up for the values that the government claims to represent. Around the world, girls and women struggle to control their own lives and bodies. In many places they are subjected to sexual abuse, threats, violence and more – all while our so-called feminist government uses praise more than action. It claims that it stands up for women's rights, while at the same time not rejecting dictatorships and regimes that subject these women to oppression. Madam President, I would like I have much more that I could mention in this debate, which shows how our so-called feminist government has mismanaged its work globally. But out of respect for the fact that it has been a long day today, I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 11.
i-b14941aa535515ba-544	Madam President, I would like This is the first letter we have received from the government regarding feminist foreign policy. Sweden was the first country in the world to have a declared ambition to pursue feminist foreign policy. It is clear that it is an ambition that can be commendable, but it also requires content. If you go out big you have to be able to show that you have coverage for it, and that is where we have made criticisms. That might sound good. But in terms of content it will soon become clear that there is very little in foreign policy that is actually new, but it continues the work of several governments, including alliance governments, in the field of gender equality also in the field of foreign policy. It is classic Swedish equality policy in many parts. As far as we are concerned, it is of course important for foreign policy to protect democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law, to protect freedoms and rights, liberal democracy. Gender equality also comes with this as an important aspect. The government may call it feminist foreign policy, but in substance is a little new even though the concept itself was new. Now others have followed. We see and warn that a concept that is not filled with a clear content or is clearly defined risks undermining the potential added value of the concept. Then it is more a slogan in order to attract attention than a clear direction for political choices. We have nothing against the government seeking attention in an area that is important, namely women's equal rights, because women's rights are also human rights. This is, of course, a good thing. And there are elements among the activities that the government has carried out that we think have been good, such as what is highlighted with the female mediation network. It's positive and good. But we would have liked to have had the opportunity to see clear objectives for feminist foreign policy in the letter presented to Parliament and not just a general story about what you are doing. We would have liked clear objectives that would have enabled the Riksdag to carry out the task of the Riksdag, namely to review and evaluate the work of the Government. It would, of course, have been important to have a clear definition. What does the government mean by feminist foreign policy? Could everything be feminist foreign policy? If you read the letter, the answer is almost yes, but it is not quite the way we see it. We would like to see a liberal definition of feminism based on the fact that women are individuals with their own motives, dreams and rights. Women are different, just like men, fighting for different things, although there are certain common structures that women can become victims of, especially oppression and discrimination. Such an approach would land in more results than just counting heads. Of course, representation can be good and important, but it is not the only one. It's getting too shallow. With a clearer liberal perspective and a liberal feminist foreign policy, the rights of the individual would have been the starting point. By then, minorities would not have been systematically invisible, as we think has happened. This can be read more about in our reservation in the report. Since there is no clarity, we have tried to see what feminist foreign policy stands for, if it is something new and if so what. I asked Parliament's investigation service to make an analysis of feminist foreign policy, whether it had had an impact on the government's formal governance of government agencies and how to manage aid funds or work with disarmament, trade policy and security policy. It compared the period 2014 to 2018 with the period 2010 to 2014. The comparison shows that most of it is a continuation of previous positions; very little is new. Parliament's investigation service shows that it is more or less constant policy. It is about women's participation in peace processes, where the Alliance Government emphasised in particular Resolutions 1325 and 1820, women's participation and influence in peace processes, peace efforts and conflict prevention efforts. These have been fundamental objectives for both governments. Basically, the red-green government's objectives and focus areas for a feminist foreign policy are similar to those of the alliance government's foreign policy objectives and focus in policies and foreign declarations. It might be a picture of the very consensus that prevails and has prevailed in Sweden on the importance of gender equality in different policy areas. The fact that gender equality is good and that we in Sweden want to see an equal country has so far been a great consensus. But when the anti-liberal, anti-feminist wave rolls over the globe, we see the risk of surges entering our country too, so keep an eye out! Gender equality has, of course, also been seen in our policy. The Center Party had Sweden's first Minister for Gender Equality, Sweden's first female Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden's first female leader of a party in the Riksdag, so for us gender equality has been an important part. Finally, Madam President, it is important that not everything should become feminist foreign policy. For example, when you make the KEX investigation, the investigation into arms exports, a result of feminist foreign policy, it is an example of how everything can possibly be contained under that coat. That does not make it right, the work of civil society, other parties and the profile. It is important that not everything becomes a zebra. With this, Madam President, I would like to support reservation 3 in paragraph 1.
i-b14941aa535515ba-559	Madam President, I would like I appreciate that the government is writing a letter that brings together what the government is doing in the field of feminist foreign policy. The Left Party has long integrated a feminist perspective into all policy areas, so when the government announced that they would pursue a feminist foreign policy, we were happy to look forward to this. And, as the letter says, much has been done. However, there is still more to be done. For as well as the Swedish government, it is a priority to reduce taxes for those with high incomes and at the same time turn a blind eye to the low-paid women whose average life expectancy decreases, the government chooses to prioritise Swedish arms companies' exports and close its eyes to the fact that girls and women everywhere in the world are hit harder by conflicts. As well as the government chooses to give priority to cleaning grants to the rich instead of ensuring that the municipalities have a functioning home care service with decent conditions, the government makes payments of over 2 billion on the aid that instead could have gone to organisations that work for sexual and reproductive health and rights, SRHR. The government writes that a strong Swedish voice in the world requires a coherent and active national policy. It does not make sense with the policy that is actually being pursued. The letter highlights disarmament and non-proliferation and export control as part of feminist foreign policy. At the same time, in direct contradiction with Agenda 2030, arms are being exported to dictatorships and belligerent countries. When the government visits country after country that commits serious violations of human rights and are pure dictatorships in order to get them to buy Swedish weapons, it acts directly against the principles on which development policy is based. The shortcomings in the Swedish policy of coherence are most evident in Yemen today. Sweden's humanitarian aid to Yemen amounted to over SEK 300 million in 2019. At the same time, during the war against Yemen, Sweden has exported weapons to six of the nine states participating in the Saudi-led coalition bombing the country, committing war crimes and killing civilians. That the government writes about the importance of changing standards and ensuring that girls and women have the right to decide over their own body obliges. It is remarkable, then, that there is a consistent opposition to increasing the proportion of aid going to sexual and reproductive health and rights. For several years, the share of aid going to the SRHR has been between 6 and 7 per cent. At the same time, women's and girls' rights are violated and violated in many countries with which Sweden cooperates in development cooperation. Lack of access to basic hygiene, contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care, strong restrictions on abortion law and the use of sexual violence against women and girls in conflict are key obstacles to development and poverty reduction. It would therefore be welcome if the government heeded the Left Party's call for the share of aid going to the SRHR to increase to 10% – especially given that reactionary and anti-women forces that oppose abortion rights and women's right to their own body are active in many poor countries and move forward their positions. Trumps's decision to reintroduce Mexico City's policy, the so-called gag rule, which prevents the US from financing organisations working for the right to abortion constitutes a huge threat to women's rights and is a clear setback to global development policy. When women's democratic space is limited, sexual violence in conflict is a major problem and more and more people are on the run and for longer the feminist analysis should lead to more than just talk. Sweden is known as an advocate of women's rights, and I believe that our voice needs to be even stronger in these times. Sweden, as an individual country as well as a member of the EU and the UN, should therefore work towards an even clearer support and freedom of action for women's movements around the world. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment No 12. When the government decided that it would conduct a feminist foreign policy, many people assumed that it would mean an increased focus on LGBT issues. Repression due to gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or gender characteristics are linked. Unfortunately, the government seems to have completely missed that among the world's women are often gay and bisexual women as well as transgender people among the most vulnerable to both discrimination and violence. I believe that Sweden, within the framework of feminist foreign policy, should pay attention to the situation of gay and bisexual girls and women, as well as non-Binary people, transgender people and intersex people in more areas than just SRHR. In the letter, the Government notes that there is a clear link between climate and environmental work and gender equality. The Left Party fully agrees with the government on this and believes that the global as well as the local climate work must go hand in hand with the work for equality and equality. It is the world's rich people who cause climate change and have the greatest impact on the climate, while the worst affected are the world's poor. The situation is deeply unfair from a climate justice perspective. Capitalism distributes earth's resources extremely unequally between classes, between rich and poor countries and, in interaction with patriarchal structures, between women and men. That is why the Left Party has proposed climate aid which consists of new additional funds, that is to say, additional funds beyond the promised aid under the 1% target. This is supposed to escalate over three years to land at 1 billion. As the government writes, Swedish trade policy is largely determined at EU level. Extensive trade agreements affect millions of people, and unfortunately they are often in direct opposition to democracy, climate, the environment and labour law. One example is how liberalisation in the export industry often leads to lower wages and precarious employment conditions, which in turn hit women and groups that are already particularly vulnerable in the labour market. A feminist trade policy must therefore include, in addition to fair texts on human rights, binding clauses for both equality and the safeguarding of women's rights. The EU and its trading partners should commit to combating exploitation and improving women's conditions. Should the government be credible in its feminist trade policy, the Left Party believes that the feminist perspective needs to be much more pervaded in all dimensions of trade policy. Madam President, I would like As I said, we in the Left Party were positive when the government said it wanted to pursue a feminist foreign policy, but we see that much remains to be done before that really is the case.
i-b14941aa535515ba-581	Madam President, I would like I can understand why you want 10% of aid to go to LGBT people, with a focus on women. This is a laudable attitude because female LGBTQ people are particularly vulnerable. However, I wonder how Yasmine Posio views entrepreneurship. I heard no more than that the market economy can be problematic and that it is fair texts and nothing that improves women's conditions. Is that so? Or can Yasmine Posio imagine that aid can be used for women's entrepreneurship and for women to be able to develop their economy to a greater extent than they are today? If Yasmine Posio can imagine this, in what way? It is undoubtedly the case that a market economy leads to more women being able to make a living. I would like to hear a more advanced discussion on this.
i-b14941aa535515ba-584	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Cederfelt for the question. I would like to start with the 10%, because we believe that this proportion should go to the SRHR and the whole spectrum, just so that this becomes clear and clear to those who listen to the debate. The Left Party also supports support for women, both in order to be able to own their own land and inherit land, and in order to be able to start their own business, in the case of low-income countries. We are not opposed to this. On the other hand, we look with concern at when more and more money is being spent on companies from rich countries and middle-income countries to establish themselves in poor countries. These companies already have resources and will also make huge profits from what they do, by moving businesses from other countries to low-income countries. While this allows women to get jobs in low-income countries, we know that working conditions in these workplaces are not always so positive or good. They get wages that are not high enough to live on, they get to work many hours, they find it difficult to manage hygiene and so on. We need to ensure that, once we support companies to establish themselves in low-income countries, we ensure that decent working conditions are respected and respected.
i-b14941aa535515ba-588	Madam President, I would like Yes, decent working conditions are a consequence of economic development. We can see this all over the world. Good working conditions are extremely important. I'd like to ask you a little more. In fact, it may be that it is women who start, own and run the companies. How do Yasmine Posio and the Left Party view female entrepreneurship in domestic services? It is an area in which many women work under difficult and poor conditions, but with entrepreneurship women could take a different position. Is this something that the Left Party can view positively, or is it only certain forms of entrepreneurship that are accepted within the Left Party?
i-b14941aa535515ba-590	Madam President, I would like Now I didn't really follow what Margareta Cederfelt wants to come up with. She's wondering what I'm thinking about female entrepreneurship. I think that is a good thing. We are happy to start a business even in the area of domestic services – I see no problem whatsoever with that. What we see with domestic problems, in Sweden, is that people should receive subsidies to hire women to do domestic services. We do not think this is in harmony with the needs that exist in Sweden, and that is why we are against, for example, the RUT grants. We will have good and well-functioning home care with nice conditions. People are very happy to hire cleaning companies, but then they will pay what it actually costs to have them. There is no need for contributions to be able to do so. What I suspect Margareta wanted to come up with is if it is not better for women in low-paid countries to work at a factory instead of working with domestic services, where they have terrible conditions, which we know they have. These are almost slave-like forms, and human trafficking is taking place at their expense. It is clear that if you can earn a little more and have better working conditions, that is better than being some kind of house slave, but there are still no decent working conditions in the companies that have been started in the low-wage countries. Take, for example, our mobile phones, which we all use. We know that those who work to develop the materials needed in our mobile phones live in terrible conditions.
i-b14941aa535515ba-593	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to highlight the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats and, in particular, call for the approval of reservation 13. Christian democracy works for a foreign policy based on values such as democracy, freedom and human rights. Politics should always assert the unique and inviolable value of each person, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity or religion. Every human being has the right to live a dignified life, to be respected and to develop into his full potential. This applies to women and men. Gender equality is an integral part of Christian Democratic foreign policy. All boys and girls have the right to education. Every child should have the knowledge needed to shape his life and make his dreams come true. Nevertheless, we know that many girls today are being denied an education. In several places around the world, schooling for girls is not a matter of course. Discrimination, destructive notions and traditions are some of the reasons. In other cases, pregnancy due to child marriage or lack of contraception is an obstacle to schooling and education. Sexual and reproductive health must therefore be a priority area for Swedish development policy. Both Swedish and EU development aid should be used to a greater extent than today to ensure women's and girls' right to education and schooling. Madam President, I would like In most societies and cultures, the family is central to the formation of a person's values. In the family, children and adults meet with love, kindness and respect. The supporting function of the family creates the conditions for basic security and equips the individual while building community. The importance of well-functioning families is therefore central – for women and men, for children and, not least, for society at large. But a home can also be the place of intolerance and violence. In many parts of the world, people are oppressed within the framework of the family, family, or clan. Not infrequently, this is done with reference to honour or sharia legislation, and almost always women are hit hardest. Today, when we write in 2020, women and girls are exploited through forced marriage, polygamy and child marriage. They are forced to cover their faces, they are denied the right to decide over their own lives and they risk being subjected to genital mutilation or honour violence. The reality of these women is brutal, and we must therefore be clear. Stopping the culture of honour and religious oppression of women is and remains a central part of gender equality policy. Let us therefore jointly intensify the international work against forced marriage, child marriage and genital mutilation. Let us strengthen Sida's efforts at home to combat child marriage around the world. A foreign policy that takes gender equality seriously must counteract oppression and create conditions for well-functioning families where the rights of girls and women are fully respected. Madam President, I would like Women's vulnerability and the increase in gender-based violence in conflict and disaster situations are deeply worrying. Sexual abuse, rape and enslavement have become part of a cynical warfare aimed at demoralising and humiliating the enemy and creating terror among civilians. Strong action against sexual abuse and gender-based violence is therefore crucial. This work needs to be integrated into the international humanitarian operations that Sweden participates in or otherwise has the opportunity to influence. Full implementation of Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is a fundamental requirement. Knowledge of the sexual violence in wars and conflicts must be increased. Sida has a central role in this. This is also the case with regard to the funding of activities that can provide assistance to women who have been victims of sexual abuse. In this particular context, let me mention and highlight the activities of the doctor Denis Mukwege for several years at the Panzi hospital in the Democratic Republic of Congo with the support of the Pentecostal Mission and the Medical Mission. Every year thousands of women from Bukavu and the eastern part of the country are treated at the hospital. Safe childbirth can be offered, and undernourished or premature babies can be saved to life. Perhaps most famous is the part of the activity that focuses on helping women who have been subjected to severe violence and sexual abuse. Through trauma treatment, surgery and other care, thousands of affected women have been given the opportunity for a new life. In the work against sexual abuse and gender-based violence against women, the Peace Prize winner Denis Mukwege is a model worth all our support. Madam President, I would like The exploitation of women and systematic sexual abuse do not occur only in crisis and conflict situations. The Christian Democrats therefore wish to emphasise the importance of Sweden's and France's joint diplomatic offensive against prostitution, human trafficking and trafficking continuing. It's about the slavery of our time. Today it is well known that there is a clear link between prostitution and human trafficking. Together, we will therefore counteract the forces that are working for the legalisation of prostitution. I hope that together in this Parliament we can safeguard Swedish sex purchase legislation and gladly export it to other countries. No woman, wherever in the world she is, should be treated as an object. Human dignity is and remains absolute, regardless of gender and wherever in the world it is called into question.
i-b14941aa535515ba-605	Madam President, I would like One of the major Swedish export successes of recent years is the feminist foreign policy. France, Canada and most recently Mexico are all countries that have adopted a feminist foreign policy entirely according to the Swedish model. Today the government's policy is celebrated worldwide, and a number of countries have followed suit. In November, I heard Denmark's Minister for Development Rasmus Prehn proudly refer to Danish feminist foreign policy. As part of this, Denmark hosted the International Conference ICPD+25 in Nairobi with Kenya and UNFPA. The conference led to more than 1,200 concrete commitments from the major core donors such as Sweden and Denmark, but also from individuals and companies that all promised to make a difference for women and girls. The overall objective of the conference was to make sexual and reproductive health and rights available to all by 2030. Madam President, I would like The need for feminism is obvious. Differences between the conditions for men and women are visible everywhere: in the home, in the workplace, in politics and not least in the judicial system. For us to achieve the global goals and Agenda 2030, we need the entire world's population to be on an equal footing. Madam President, I would like The government put feminist foreign policy at the top of the agenda in the meantime in the Security Council. UN Ambassador Olof Skoog repeatedly repeated the question: Where are the women? It really made a difference. Sweden contributed to the inclusion of women in the Security Council resolutions on the work of peace in both the Democratic Republic of Congo and Gambia. Women took place in the peace talks on Syria and Yemen. In 2015, the government established a mediation network for women peace negotiators. So feminist foreign policy really makes a difference. I had the privilege of attending the UN Conference on Women in New York last year. It was just after Sweden had left the Security Council. Regardless of which institution we visited, we were thanked for the Swedish feminist foreign policy. On these issues, Sweden is a great power. Madam President, I would like In the EU, too, the government is running the feminist foreign policy agenda. Sweden has pushed forward the establishment of a high-level adviser for gender equality and women, peace and security within the EEAS and strengthened the advisor's office with a Swedish expert. We know that the resistance to working for gender equality is growing globally. A coordinated campaign from right-wing conservative and reactionary forces in the world wants to silence women and put us back in the home. These forces have had great success in Poland and Hungary, among others. But even in this House there are parties who would have liked the government to have abandoned feminist foreign policy and work to work consistently and structuredly against discrimination and for gender equality. Every day we have to work towards equality. We should not allow the reactionary forces to turn back time and political development. Madam President, I would like Every day more than 500 girls and women die in war and conflict situations due to lack of access to safe maternal health care and safe abortion. To this day, more hundreds of millions of women lack access to sexual and reproductive health care. The issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights, the SRHR, is absolutely vital. Tomorrow it is three years since President Trump reintroduced the so-called global gag rule, that no American aid money should go to organizations that promote abortion. The decision has forced women to give birth to unplanned children and expose themselves to illegal and dangerous abortions at the risk of their own lives. In addition, it has resulted in girls not having access to men's protection, contraception, sanitation and laundry facilities. The government has acted against Trumps's gag rule and, together with Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark in the She Decides initiative, has ensured that the impact of the policy is reduced. Madam President, I would like We know that girls and women on the run are more at risk of being subjected to violence, forced marriages, human trafficking and prostitution. Sweden's work on the issues has led, among other things, to access to SRHR and child and maternal health care, but also support offices along the large migration routes have had an impact. Madam President, I would like Female genital mutilation is one of the most terrible practices. Approximately 200 million women are estimated to have been sexually mutilated so far. Assessments suggest that an additional 15 million women will be exposed to this before 2030 if the same path continues. We must stand united against this oppression and work together with parties who have great confidence in circles where this is happening. In Kenya, I met a young woman who, along with religious leaders of the Masai, works against genital mutilation. She described to me how she was saved by the church and now does the same for other girls. Swedish churches and religions can have a decisive influence here, and it is our task to continue our work to ensure that these good and progressive forces can become part of the solution – part of the salvation. One third of all women are exposed to gender-based violence during their lives. Every day women are killed by the man they live with or have lived with. Swedish assistance to various civil society organisations is crucial for many victims of violence as a large part of the money goes to secure sheltered housing, support lines and support centres. Madam President, I would like Yesterday, a parliamentary seminar was held in honor of Fadime. She was murdered by her father 18 years ago. Women, girls and boys still suffer from honorary violence and murder. We know that the only thing that can break and change this is to change the patriarchal norms, structures and hierarchies of society. There is no other way but to fundamentally change society, and that is exactly what feminist foreign policy is for. We put a gender perspective on everything we do – on every policy, every statement and every project. Madam President, I would like I stand here as a female politician in parliament, which from a global perspective is still statistically unusual. The government has contributed to the 70 per cent increase in the proportion of women in Somalia's parliament in the last elections, in 2016, to the current 24 per cent. Madam President, I would like Sweden has established an ambassador for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, an ambassador for gender equality and another ambassador against human trafficking. This is done by the government to ensure that all people enjoy human rights fully and actively participate in and contribute to society. By continuing to pursue feminist foreign policy, we are creating the conditions for all children's dreams to be fulfilled. Sweden is at a time of great difficulties and challenges absolutely crucial in the push against the pushback. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-b14941aa535515ba-627	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, the government writes that a strong Swedish voice in the world requires a coherent and active national policy in accordance with the policy of global development. In addition, the letter highlights disarmament, non-proliferation and export control as part of feminist foreign policy. At the same time, contrary to Agenda 2030, arms are being exported to dictatorships and belligerent countries. The debate article by Sara Heikkinen Breitholtz and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde in Aftonbladet today mentions the importance of paying attention to women's situation in war and conflict and that rape is used as a weapon in conflict. This was written even though the government visits country after country that commits serious violations of human rights and that are pure dictatorships, in order to get them to buy Swedish weapons. The government is thus acting contrary to the principles on which development policy is based. It is about the Philippines, where thousands of people have been killed since President Duterte took office in June 2016. It's about Colombia, where the ink had barely dried up on the peace treaty before Mikael Damberg went there to heel JAS planes. It is also about the Saudi-led coalition that is bombing Yemen apart. Madam President, I would like I therefore have a couple of questions for Sara Heikkinen Breitholtz. Why do the Social Democrats not use the new Act on the Export Control of Armaments? It would ensure that human rights and democracy are respected. Moreover, the countries participating in the Saudi-led coalition warring in Yemen are now in a position of gold, given the January agreement. And why do the Social Democrats in the government continue to promote weapons to countries that commit gross violations of human rights, despite the fact that it goes against feminist foreign policy?
i-b14941aa535515ba-630	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Yasmine Posio! Of course, we can debate arms exports, but is this really the right forum? If we note that Sweden has, for various historical defence and security reasons, an arms export with the world's strictest democracy criterion, the question is this: does that not mean that we can also conduct a feminist foreign policy? If we want fewer women to suffer from war and conflict – and I believe that I and Yasmine Posio are completely united – it is an important priority to continue to engage in dialogue, diplomacy, the UN and the OSSE. We should prioritise the agenda with Resolution 1325, that is, women, peace and security in the UN. All of this is done by the feminist government. I understand that Yasmine Posio and the Left Party are against war; so are the Social Democrats, me and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. I also wish the world did not need weapons, but in a world where weapons are still needed, it is perhaps better that we export weapons and defend women with them.
i-b14941aa535515ba-633	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Sara Heikkinen Breitholtz is not quite able to answer my questions, which is no wonder, given that it is actually not possible to claim to be in favour of a feminist foreign policy and at the same time export war material to belligerent countries or countries where human rights are being violated. Of course, I understand that the Social Democrats are against war – I hope that all parties in this House are – but what I am lifting is arms exports, which, after all, are going on. That's a completely different thing. Our regulations may be the hardest in the world, but we are exporting weapons after all. Sexual and reproductive health and rights are raised several times in the letter, quite rightly. But it is not enough to talk about SRHR, but you also have to deliver funds to really make a difference – especially in these times, when Trump through its so-called gag rule has ensured that several organisations working with SRHR have received reduced funding. In the debate article presented today by Sara Heikkinen Breitholtz and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, they say that a feminist foreign policy needs to do something to ensure that aid money reaches women and increases support for midwives and contraception. Nevertheless, support for SRHR has been at 6 – 7 per cent for several years. Instead, the Social Democrats have chosen to retain the cleaning allowance for the rich and also reduce taxes for them. Wouldn't it, Sara Heikkinen Breitholtz, be better for women and girls in the world if instead of covering up for what you give to the rich by counting off the aid budget, you had spent the money on additional aid to the SRHR?
i-b14941aa535515ba-636	Madam President, I would like Arms exports, I think we'll have to leave that behind. Yasmine Posio and the Left Party will probably never have the same view as the Social Democrats on this issue. With regard to feminist foreign policy and the SRHR, the government is making countless efforts. Raising the aid budget and thus the SRHR efforts is perhaps something to consider, but the Swedish government is investing in SRHR consistently – in everything we do. In all parts of the aid we invest in SRHR. We are the largest core donor to the UNHCR with our 870 million. They work all the time with both SRHR and gender equality. Yasmine Posio knows that in 2018 we added another 200 million to strengthen gender equality and support for women, given UN Women and everything we do there. One can criticise the government and the work done by saying that it is not enough, but the question is: When is it enough? I share Yasmine Posios view that we can always do more – we want that all the time – and I want to assure the Left Party that it is the government's top priority. Giving women the right to SRHR is vital. We ask this question in every policy and every piece of work that the government does. You can rest assured, Yasmine Posio: We will continue to work together for more SRHR worldwide.
i-b14941aa535515ba-641	Madam President, I would like When I sat down and listened to Sara Heikkinen Breitholtz, I could see that there is at least a fundamental consensus between our parties. Gender equality in the framework of foreign and security policy is crucial. At the same time, it is important – and this is what I want to emphasise – that the focus must be on achieving real and real results for women around the world. This is very important to emphasise, because unfortunately we have seen – and we see – how the Social Democrats and the government occasionally engage in pure symbolic politics and activist campaigns. This is deeply unfortunate because it risks taking the focus away from the major and important issues of gender equality, such as reforming the UN. Without any protest from Sweden, Saudi Arabia was elected to the UN Commission on Women in 2017. This happened despite the fact that Saudi Arabia is one of the world's absolutely worst countries in terms of state-sanctioned and systematic repression of women. I have seen it myself; I have sat down in Riyadh with representatives of women's networks who are risking their own lives in order to bring about a change. Instead of approving countries such as Saudi Arabia for missions to the UN Commission on Women, a different approach is needed. For the government that calls itself feminist, it should be self-evident to play an active role in the reform of the UN.
i-b14941aa535515ba-646	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Lars Adaktusson! The simple answer to the question is yes. The Social Democrats and the government will work and are already working very actively to reform the UN at all levels. Sweden contributes large amounts of money every year, and feminism and women's rights are an absolutely key issue. The government is active both in the General Assembly and in all informal discussions. We have different conferences where we discuss gender equality. But the question of the UN and the reform of the UN is a much bigger one, where everything is covered. The answer to your question, Lars Adaktusson, is: Yes, we are working actively, constantly and constantly, to reform the UN because Secretary General Guterres launched a major reform of the UN system last year.
i-b14941aa535515ba-650	Madam President, I would like It is excellent to have that answer, but to be able to take on this leadership role requires a new approach towards Saudi Arabia. This also applies to other dictatorships, such as Iran. Instead of supporting Iranian women who have thrown the veil and faced the brutality and violence of the Islamic Republic, the Social Democrats have chosen in this respect to pursue an almost respectful or permissive line towards Iran. We saw this in connection with the Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif's visit to Sweden in August, when both the former and the present Social Democratic head of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs almost literally embraced the Iranian regime representative. Obviously, the guest's refusal to take Margot Wallström in hand was not disturbing. This is about taking the custom to which it appears that women ministers are being asked to wear a veil when they visit Iran, but not male ministers visiting our country. I think it is a pity – and it is obvious – that Sweden's approach vis-à-vis Iran risks strengthening the anti-women and anti-women regime that is there. It is not good enough for the feminist government to keep separate the issue of reaching international agreements and the respect of human rights, not least women's rights. It rhymes badly with the democratic offensive that we have now seen the government launch, and it risks, in the long run, going out on women's rights. Sweden should make a clearer mark against Iran.
i-b14941aa535515ba-654	Madam President, I would like I note that Lars Adaktusson and the Christian Democrats are calling for symbolic politics by asking the Swedish Foreign Minister to make major scenes in the reception or when we go abroad instead of conducting active diplomacy. I believe that Lars Adaktusson, the Christian Democrats and everyone in this House, Madam President, are well aware that Sweden and the Swedish Government are not subject to either the Iranian or the Saudi regime. I can assure you that neither Margot Wallström nor Ann Linde, as Foreign Minister, are looking for this. We certainly stand up for the Iranian women who have thrown the veil. I say, I'm always behind you. The fact that we would not stand up for international trade agreements to go hand in hand with human rights is directly provocative, I would say. If there is something that Sweden stands up for – among other things through the launch of Drive for Democracy, which Lars Adaktusson mentioned – it is human rights. The whole feminist foreign policy is about promoting and strengthening women's rights. It is absolutely a large part of Swedish trade policy. As feminist foreign policy permeates everything we do, at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and at every foreign agency that Sweden has, I can assure you all that trade policy is an important and active part of this.
i-b14941aa535515ba-659	Madam President, I would like I have been sitting here listening to Sara Heikkinen Breitholtz, and I have to say that I have not in any way become wiser in this debate and in the attitude of the government. I had expected some kind of answer. What I'm saying here is that I highlighted four different organisations that have made criticism – or should we say improvement proposals – but I haven't received a single comment on this. Among other things, what was mentioned was the need to set goals and to be clear about what is to be achieved. I have not received any comments on this. What was also talked about was building partnerships, or cooperation. I have listened, but I have heard nothing about cooperation. Instead, it has been about what Sweden – more or less as a single player – wants and what Sweden does. But which network is Sweden building? What also emerges from these four reports is the following: Speak is good, but it is a matter of action. What does Sweden do? What makes Sweden more robust? In what way does Sweden act? I mention this because, by acting, it is also possible to gain credibility and strengthen credibility. That is what my questions are about. In addition to talking about and highlighting what Sweden wants and does – what does this mean in concrete terms? What is it that the Swedish government wants to do with its feminist foreign policy? It's not just this fluff- fuff I want to hear about, but I want more concrete examples. I concluded earlier by mentioning a few examples, and I do not want to say that it is Canada that follows Sweden, but Canada has built its own foreign policy.
i-b14941aa535515ba-665	Madam President, I would like I can only regret if the Moderates and Margareta Cederfelt do not perceive that Sweden has any collaborations or builds networks. My picture, and this is my picture, is that I just gave a speech in which I described what Sweden is doing – together with others of course – for example in the UN, during the time in the Security Council. If you want concrete examples of exactly what Sweden has done, I can say that we have strengthened women leaders and entrepreneurs in Saudi Arabia. The Swedish Democrats even referred to this as something that was positive. We made a 35% increase in support for women's organisations between 2015 and 2016. By strengthening women's organisations, we help those who actually implement the different parts every day. By actively consulting and helping Moldova in their drafting of parliamentary law, we have contributed to the fact that 40% of all candidates for national, local or regional elections now have to be women. We have strengthened the job of women, peace and security in the EU. Sweden has promoted a new advisory function within the EU and, as I mentioned in my speech, we have contributed a Swedish expert to this function. It is a very long list of concrete things that Sweden does – of course together with others. However, I would like to emphasise that Canada has followed Sweden. In 2014, we were the first country in the world to launch a feminist foreign policy.
i-b14941aa535515ba-668	Madam President, I would like I mentioned ICRW, Concord, OECD and Ci Holmgren on Swedish Radio. What has been said from all of them is: Build partnerships and cooperation! They do not want it to be only what Sweden has done and that others have followed us. This is what it is all about. It's exactly this terminology that my line was about. In its 2019 evaluation, the OECD talked about building partnerships with the private sector and involving Swedfund. I have not heard anything about this. What it is all about is achieving long-term, sustainable results and breaking negative developments and ensuring that girls and women have an opportunity to live the life that women and girls all over the world want to live. Getting training and jobs and being able to make a living – these are important issues.
i-b14941aa535515ba-671	Madam President, I would like Sweden is building networks all the time. It's a priority. Through the work of both the EU and the UN and by increasing support for women organisations and civil society and constantly supporting and developing feminist foreign policy, the government is doing exactly what Margareta Cederfelt is asking for. I can only say that I agree with the Moderates that we need to do more all the time. As far as Sweden and the Swedish Government are concerned, if that is what Margareta Cederfelt thinks, I can only say that we have it – and that we should have it. I am extremely proud of all the work that Sweden does in the world and here. Together we can certainly develop that work, and I am pleased, I must say, that the Moderates clearly want to increase support for the feminist foreign policy agenda. Then I expect the Moderates to want to add more resources to the feminist foreign policy, more money, so that more women and girls can get the right to education and start businesses and thus actually achieve all the goals and dreams that women are entitled to just like men.
i-b14941aa535515ba-674	Madam President, I would like Thank you, those of you who have taken part in the debate, for a good debate. Ever since 1792 when Mary Wollstonecraft wrote the book Defending Women's Rights, we liberals have been feminists. She was a liberal and the first feminist. For hundreds of years we have been fighting against conservative and reactionary and now against populists and the wave of populism that spreads not only in Sweden but all over the world and that pushes back women's rights, which are both anti-feminist and anti-liberal, which resists the individual and individuals' rights and stands for unclear collectives. I can only be happy that the government wants to pursue a feminist foreign policy. Anyone who, like Liberals, has been doing for hundreds of years and, as Mary Wollstonecraft put it, defends women's rights is my friends. I wish we could stop together in this House, in this country, in our part of the world and worldwide in defence of women's rights. It is clear that Sweden, which is a country that is often ahead and has often come a little further on these issues, must be influential. We must take our place in the world and make sure that we get not only equality and a feminist Sweden but also a feminist world. Madam President, I would like The feminist foreign policy of this government has not come all the way. That's a good start. It is good to continue the proud history that Sweden has to conduct a much feminist foreign policy, regardless of the government. But you can't get all the way through. Feminism goes hand in hand with democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Those things are inseparable. You cannot be a feminist and not at the same time fight for democracy, and you cannot fight for democracy without fighting for women's rights. It is positive that this government, with its foreign policy, has fought for women to be better represented in different contexts. It is positive that women's representation has been raised time and again and again, and that women have been allowed to attend the negotiating table and have been involved in decisions that have been made and have been able to express their views and perspectives. But it is clear that before women can actually vote on who they think should represent them in parliaments in democratic order, it is not very far enough. That's good, but it's way too short. This government has not done enough to fight against those countries in the world that are not democratic, that is, those countries where women are not allowed to make their voices heard properly through democracy. You can have as many advices as you like, and those advices can each be good, and you can have as many associations as you like where you include women, for example, and that representation can be good, but before you have representative democracy where every individual regardless of gender gets the chance to vote and decide who is to represent them, you can't actually call it a feminist foreign policy that has had enough impact. Madam President, I would like I have nothing against a feminist foreign policy. The alliance government that the Liberals were involved in led in many ways a feminist foreign policy like that government now pursues. It may be good to call that policy feminist. It can be a good way to market it out in the world. But let us not glorify ourselves. Let us not swell in our self-glorification. Let us not wallow in the fact that we are so much better than everyone else. Of course we've come a long way. But we haven't actually come all the way. I would like us to go further in feminist foreign policy and create follow-up objectives and that we had not only fine words but concrete goals for how women's rights can be strengthened throughout the world. This government is failing to do so. I would like the feminist foreign policy, feminism itself, to be allowed to permeate the entire foreign policy of the government. That is not the case today. Instead, the government has rolled out the red carpet here in Stockholm to receive the representative of the Iranian regime; Iran is perhaps one of the worst regimes in the world in terms of how to treat women. Instead, this government has continued to pump aid money to women's oppressors in Palestine, for example, but also in other parts of the world. It is not a feminist foreign policy. A larger part of Sweden's aid should instead go to, for example, democracy work, to support organisations and individuals who in different ways push the issue of democracy around the world. Why? It is only when women gain real power, through their vote and over the decisions taken in parliamentary assemblies that great feminist achievements can be achieved. Of course, a larger part of Sweden's aid and efforts must also be used to ensure women's schooling around the world. Education is a human and not a male right. Education often paves the way for and creates opportunities for women to break the vicious spiral whereby generation after generation around the world is forced into child marriage. They can also get caught up in their situation because of unwanted pregnancies, insufficient knowledge of reproductive health, that you are not entitled to abortion or that you are not aware of your rights. The defence of women's rights that Sweden should be a part of and that Sweden should lead around the world requires both that we invest in women's schooling and that we invest more in strengthening democracy. Against this background, that women need an increased right to control their own bodies, we also need, of course, to prioritise sexual and reproductive health and rights, the SRHR. That work needs to be strengthened. It is only when women have the right to their own bodies that they can be said to be free in that respect. And of course, this is about freedom. We must also give priority to how we work with LGBTQ rights. In countries where LGBT rights are violated, women are often the hardest hit. There, Sweden must be perhaps the main player. We have come a long way and therefore have a great responsibility in the world. Madam President, I would like One of the things that the world has done for feminism in the last ten years and which may have had the greatest practical impact was when the countries of the world came together to bomb the Islamic state, IS, Daish. For feminism is not pacifism. In addition to what I have said about strengthening rights, strengthening education, shifting aid so that we can lift women and stop buttering up dictatorships around the world, one must be prepared to defend women's rights with arms in hand. Women are now systematically subjected to rape and sexual violence. It is used as a weapon in conflicts around the world. Sweden, which is a democratic country, has a duty to be involved in the world and to counter the evil forces that use, for example, rape and sexual violence as weapons. It was good that the world came together to bomb IS. Sweden must also strengthen its presence in the world and, at the same time, ensure that the training provided to our soldiers in Security Council Resolutions 1325 and 1820 is improved, in order to ensure that we can also contribute to a further feminist foreign policy in the field of defence. Madam President, I would like 70% of the world's poorest are women. We need to ensure that trade, capitalism and the market economy are spread so that women are given the means to lift themselves out of poverty. 65 million girls are not allowed to go to school. We need to ensure that aid goes to women's schooling and that, where necessary, we, together with others, defend the schools where women are otherwise denied. 39,000 girls are forced into child marriage every day. That is totally unacceptable. It requires our feminist foreign policy to accelerate and stop flaunting only with its good name and to wallow in self-righteousness. We must do something for women and women's rights in the world for real.
i-b14941aa535515ba-694	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The time we are living in now teaches us not to take anything for granted. Battles that we once thought we had won obviously need to be fought again. Rights that generations before us fought for are being questioned and withdrawn around the world. In today's Europe, for example, the right to abortion is at stake. Conservative forces gain ground by questioning women's right to their bodies. In the United States, the current government is pursuing a policy that on several levels actively opposes women's rights. Elsewhere, laws are passed that consolidate inequality. Women's oppression takes different forms, sometimes through law and sometimes in other ways. We see that girls and women are subjected to honor-related violence and oppression around the world. They simply never get the freedom to which they are entitled. Children are married away and deprived of much of their own life. When life is torn apart in the name of honor, we must never turn our eyes away and look in another direction, no matter where in the world it happens and for what reason. Every man's freedom is ours to defend. Madam President, I would like Gender equality needs to be won time and again, in country after country. While we see that conservative forces are moving forward in several countries and that women's rights are being called into question, there is another force. In recent years there have been feminist advances that have laid the foundations for our children and grandchildren, around the world, being given the opportunity to grow up in a world where women are given better opportunities than before. In recent decades, there has been a great deal of decisive progress on a global scale. Access to education and influence has been strengthened for many millions of girls and women worldwide. In an increasing number of parliaments, women are taking places that were not too long ago reserved for men only. In countries where abortion has previously been totally forbidden, laws are lightened, and women's place and rights on the labour market are strengthened around the world. None of this has happened by itself. This has happened because brave people have dared to take the lead and have dared to dream of equal society. They have been able to see opportunities and have the courage to stand up to conservative systems. This has been done through the women who have created new societies and demonstrated that change is not only possible but also absolutely necessary. Madam President, I would like The government stated in 2014 that we will pursue a feminist foreign policy that puts girls and women first. By declaring it, we set an example for the rest of the world, and the words have since been filled, step by step, with action. The fight for gender equality has changed the lives of many women around the world. This work is now taking on feminist foreign policy. It is based on six basic principles which should be a matter of course for all women and girls, regardless of the country in which they were born. It is about the full enjoyment of human rights. Women's rights are human rights, and it needs to shine through in all work, regardless of area. Women should be able to live in freedom from physical, mental and sexual violence. We need to work actively and with many methods to prevent violence, but also for legislation to be tightened up and perpetrators to be held accountable at all times. Women should be involved in preventing and resolving conflicts and in building a sustainable peace after the conflicts have ended. We know that peace is being built together and that women's participation is crucial for peace to last over time. The climate crisis also means that conflicts are becoming more common. Women and children are most affected and therefore women must also be more clearly part of the solution. We must ensure political participation and influence in all areas of society. Women's place needs to be in the corridors of power. More and more arenas are now opening up to women around the world, but work needs to be done in more places and in more sectors. Women must enjoy economic rights and empowerment. This applies to both the small and the large. Today men, globally, own 50 percent more than women, and together the world's 22 richest men own more than all women in Africa. This shows Oxfam's latest report, which clearly points to economic inequality and inequality in the world. Women must be protected from sexual and reproductive health and rights. The right to your own body is fundamental, and our support for movements around the world that stand up for it is absolutely central. Through the so-called gag rule, the U.S. and Donald Trump withdrew funding for organizations working with, among other things, the right to abortion. Against this, Sweden also responded with She Decides, an initiative that has since worked to raise money for these organisations to offset the withdrawals and actions of the United States. These six principles should be a matter of course and a normal state of affairs for all decent societies. But we know it's not like that. However, Sweden is pressing in all contexts. Madam President, I would like When Sweden dares to take the lead, we create space for others to follow. After Sweden has launched its foreign policy feminist line, among others Canada, Luxembourg and France have introduced a pronounced feminist perspective into their politics and diplomacy. Much work has been done. But an incredible amount remains, and it is ahead of us. There are several parts that are central to Sweden's work on feminist foreign policy in the future. There are, among other things, the work for women, peace and security that Sweden, not least in the Security Council, has done in recent years. This needs to be followed up and developed. Our efforts include strengthening women's participation in peace processes through several international bodies and developing the link between different types of peace work around the world. It's seriously putting women at the centre. In parallel with feminist foreign policy, the government is currently carrying out a democratic offensive. It is not possible without stronger gender equality work. Democracy, peace and feminism go hand in hand. As human rights increase, democracy is strengthened and the rule of law is safeguarded, it contributes to greater freedom and strengthened status for girls and women. Last but certainly not least, the vigorous work of a feminist foreign policy could never gain power if it were not for civil society. The fact that there is to push ahead with the issues, light up inequality and be heard in the debate is crucial for the success of greater equality worldwide. Therefore, it is also incredibly important that we support and strengthen the organisations that work every day for women's and girls' rights. Madam President, I would like The world is what we together make it. The policies we are pursuing here and now play a role in the development of the world. As I said, we have a great deal of work ahead of us. I am therefore pleased that we in Parliament are expressing the fact that everyone is behind women's rights in the world. I am particularly proud of the Green Party and that we are part of the government that has dared to go ahead and be clear. Now the struggle continues for the right of all girls and women to power over their own bodies and lives.
i-b14941aa535515ba-715	Madam President, I would like During Sweden's time in the UN Security Council, mentioned here, terrorists of the Islamic State committed enormous crimes in Iraq and Syria such as the enslavement of women, systematic rapes and brutal executions. Despite sexual violence and the fact that Yazidian women were used as sex slaves by IS terrorists, the red-green government that has been in power in recent years has consistently refused to recognise IS attempts to wipe out entire cultures as genocide. No mention was made of the persecution of Christians in the red - green government's foreign declarations at any time during the last parliamentary term. It was precisely during these years that IS carried out the worst and most abominable crimes of international law against Christians and Yazidians. Meanwhile in the Security Council, Sweden chose not to actively promote a special ad hoc tribunal for IS crimes, although this could have been a way forward and still is in order to bring those responsible for the crimes of international law to justice. Why is it, Janine Alm Ericson, that the government of which the Green Party is a member did nothing? What is the value of feminist foreign policy when the most vulnerable women in Iraq and Syria, the victims of genocide, did not receive your support?
i-b14941aa535515ba-719	Madam President, I would like I find it a bit difficult to focus on what Lars Adaktusson is talking about, because unfortunately I did not work with foreign affairs during the last parliamentary term. However, the fact that the Swedish government would not be in favour of IS being brought to justice is an accusation and a claim that is quite absurd. We are still sitting and working in different ways, because this is not solved, in order to bring the IS and those who have brought these terrible crimes to justice in a way that will also make it a reparation for the victims that exist. I thought I'd take the opportunity to ask Lars Adaktusson a question because I didn't have the opportunity to ask him for a reply before. I would like to emphasise that it was very good to hear that Lars Adaktusson and the Christian Democrats are really behind the right to abortion for all women in the world. But how is it that in the European Parliament he consistently voted in favour of a different policy?
i-b14941aa535515ba-721	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the last. At no time – zero times – I voted in the European Parliament against abortion or against the right to abortion. End of point. I regret that there is no shred of self-criticism or self-examination in what we have just heard about what has happened in recent years and the historical betrayal of the victims of the genocide, which is what this is all about. The women were the worst hit. It is clear that the Red-Green Swedish Government also wants those responsible for these enormous crimes to be brought to justice. I've never said anything else. But what the government failed to do was to pursue the issue of an international ad hoc court when it was able to do so when it was sitting on the UN Security Council. It has later been concluded that this is a proposal that can be supported. But it neglected the chance to pursue the issue when sitting on the UN Security Council. I have full respect for the fact that it is not possible to be familiar with all questions. However, given the seriousness of this betrayal, it would still have been dressative, Janine Alm Ericson, to show some self-criticism and some self-examination of this historical betrayal.
i-b14941aa535515ba-725	Madam President, I would like If there is reason for self-criticism and self-examination, it is absolutely something to be looked at. However, since I am not familiar with the situation and what Lars Andersson refers to, I cannot be either self-critical or self-searching. I hope that we will have the opportunity to come back to the issue once I have found out a little more. However, I am glad that we can come to the conclusion jointly that we want the guilty to be punished and that the victims of the genocide will receive redress through our continued action.
i-b14941aa535515ba-726	Madam President, I would like My question to Janine Alm Ericson is about what I've been asking about before. Is Janine Alm Ericson prepared to act in order for there to be more and more clear objectives in the government's feminist foreign policy? I am highlighting this issue because it is precisely this criticism that has been made by bodies and organisations that have examined Swedish feminist foreign policy. What they have also asked for is an evaluation. I mean an independent evaluation by an independent party, not an evaluation by us here in Parliament or by the government's related organisations. I say this because it is important to know whether a policy achieves the objectives it is intended to achieve or whether something quite different is happening.
i-b14941aa535515ba-728	Madam President, I would like I believe in the constant development of policy. This applies both to the way in which it is conducted and to the way in which it has been successful. Then I'm not sure we should have numbers to hang it on in different ways. Then there will be more of the development that we have seen here in Sweden with new public management, where we put numbers on everything. However, I think it is important that we can see that what we are doing is having the intended effect. But in this particular area it is particularly difficult. The success of Swedish foreign policy, aid policy and feminist policy is determined not only by what we do but also by how the rest of the world acts. I would like to take this opportunity to tell Margareta Cederfelt that there have been evaluations. The OECD-Dac, to which she herself refers, gives Sweden a very good rating. They also highlight the work on gender equality and that the priorities that the Swedish Government has made for our development cooperation have produced results. The Center for Global Development not only evaluates aid, but also how governments in other ways reach out to help develop other countries. Since 2009, Sweden has been very high on that list. In 2018, when the last evaluation was made, Sweden came in the highest place. It is good to ask for more clarity so that we know what we are doing. But we're very good at the ball.
i-b14941aa535515ba-731	Madam President, I would like I will come back to the 2019 OECD report, which rightly also says that Sweden is doing a lot of good things. It would be frightening otherwise, because it is about priority resources for building development. There are recipients, who expect development, and senders, ultimately the Swedish taxpayers, who expect a positive result. What I mentioned was highlighted as a major criticism. But it is also about liberalism, a market economy and entrepreneurship. It is about cooperation with the business community and getting more business started. Is the government – as I get it that Janine Alm Ericson represents here – prepared to work more, in accordance with the criticisms and proposals for recommendations that have been made, in order to take further steps towards strengthening women's and girls' positions and opportunities in life?
i-b14941aa535515ba-733	Madam President, I would like Yes, absolutely! For example, Swedfund, as Margareta Cederfelt mentioned in her previous line shift, received more money in the budget that was put on Parliament's table last autumn and that has started to apply now. We also have a new export strategy, and we clearly point out that feminist policy must also be present in trade policy. What I mentioned in my speech on economic empowerment is incredibly important. It's about power and opportunities. The body is the basic. But then it's also about economy and freedom. Of course, being free from the influence of others and not having to stay in destructive conditions or remain in rural areas where there are no visions of the future is extremely important for women to develop their lives exactly as they want. Thank you for highlighting this issue. We will make sure that we work together on this forward.
i-b14941aa535515ba-736	Madam President, I would like Cabinet Secretary Söder, Secretary of State Stenström, Minister of Economic Affairs Damberg, Minister of Energy Baylan, Minister of Trade Linde and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven – all visited Iran during the last term of office. In addition, Iran's Foreign Minister and IT Minister visited Stockholm. A total of eight trips took place in three years between Rosenbad and the repressive regime in Tehran. Is there any other country that the feminist government has visited to the same extent and sought association with? Madam President, I would like On this very day we are talking about feminist foreign policy and feminist trade policy. Is this how it should be cultivated – by hugging one of the world's most oppressive regimes for women? When Digitalization Minister Peter Eriksson met his counterpart, the Iranian IT Minister, in Stockholm in 2016, the meeting was fully focused on cooperation and trade between countries. Does the government not realise that information technology is one of the regime's tools for suppressing the people? Twitter, Facebook and Youtube are blocked in Iran. The people of the country can't access these social media. They can't use Google either. It is also impossible to launch a blog on WordPress or Blogspot, as these platforms are also blocked. The regime has launched its own digital platforms and encourages people to use them. But the Iranians realize that the applications that the regime has developed are flaws in security as well as integrity and are used to control the people. Madam President, I would like Disparities are punished in Iran. Reportedly, 273 people were executed in Iran between October 2018 and October 2019. That's an average of five people a week. These include women and minors. Amnesty reported last April how two 17-year-olds were first whipped and then executed. They had been arrested when they were 15 years old. The same month that Minister Damberg visited Iran, a woman was sentenced to stoning. Iranian musician Mohsen Lorestani was arrested last March. He was not prosecuted until October of last year. Then a rumor had arisen that he had been murdered in prison. The charge against this popular artist is that he is homosexual. According to Section 234 of the Iranian Penal Code, it is a crime associated with the death penalty. Madam President, I would like It has been 30 years since the dictatorships fell in Eastern Europe. The poem in Iran is on the ropes. The judgment of history will be harsh if no improvement is made in Rosenbad. Eight ministerial exchanges over three years are a clear position for the brutal dictatorship in Iran. But the association with the dictatorship's livestock is not a democratic minority, no matter what prefix the government itself gives itself.
