i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-4	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer has asked me whether I am prepared to support the proposal to introduce a ban on participation in and association with criminal gangs and to commission the current G round-team investigation to review the freedom of association in this respect too. She has also asked me whether I am prepared to introduce the other measures mentioned in the interpellation to combat gangs. Crime in criminal networks should be suppressed with the full power of society. We will do so on a broad front by combating both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. That's exactly what the government's 34-point program against gang crime is all about. We give new tools to the authorities, we tighten the penalties and we take action against the culture of silence. But we also ensure that we get a good and long-term crime prevention work. The legal system in Sweden has undergone extensive development in recent years. The police department is growing, and we were halfway to the target of 10,000 more police employees in 2024. Police camera surveillance has increased significantly, and the agency has also received more tools in its work. For example, this is a new secret means of coercion – secret data reading – which makes it possible to access more information than before, including encrypted data traffic. The penalties have been tightened up for serious violent and gun crimes, and the prison services are being expanded. Next year, the Police Department plans to set up another 150 cameras. By the end of this month, an investigator will make suggestions that improve the police's ability to search for weapons and other dangerous objects. We are also waiting for investigative proposals that improve the chances of taking criminal profits from criminals. In addition, we will shortly be setting up an investigation to extend the possibilities of using secret coercive measures in the area of serious and organised crime. The government also prevents young people from falling into gang crime. For crime prevention to be successful, society needs to work together at all levels. Many types of measures need to be implemented. The Government has taken the initiative to investigate how municipal responsibility for crime prevention can be regulated by law and organised at local level. The government's policy also includes long-term investments in schools and social services in vulnerable areas as well as early and coordinated efforts for children and young people at risk. But it is also about social services being able to intervene without consent in more cases and in more situations. Investigations are under way on increased penalties for, among other things, crimes related to criminal settlements, drug sales, abuse of justice and for those involving young people in crime. Crown witnesses and anonymous witnesses are also being investigated. We have also taken several criminal measures that restrict and control where convicted criminals may and may not stay. In addition, recent proposals for the abolition of penalty rebates for 18 to 20-year-olds for crimes with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment or more have been referred to. The initiative against gang crime now being implemented by the government is the most comprehensive ever in Sweden, and it attacks crime from several quarters at the same time. However, criminalising participation in or association with criminal networks would require a lot of investigative resources for a meagre result in finding gaps in criminal law. The existing regulatory framework, with participation regulation and with trial, preparation and conspiracy crimes, means that virtually all actions contributing to the activities of a criminal gang are already criminalised. It is therefore questionable whether the measure would have any effect. Moreover, in the case of participation in criminal networks, this is a constitutional amendment that would take a very long time to implement. Instead, what we need to prioritise is effective and accurate action against the criminal networks that make a difference. My starting point is that this should primarily be done within the current framework of the Constitution. We're just doing this. Step by step, we continue to tighten up and change the legislation, and our actions are hitting the criminal networks hard. In the recent bill on penalties for possession and smuggling of illegal weapons and explosives, a general starting point is that the new penalties should hit criminal networks particularly hard. What is being done in the area of criminal law also includes the investigations and measures that I mentioned earlier. The most important thing right now is to take measures that really have an effect.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-16	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. Serious gang crime has increased and worsened in recent years. We know that many are responsible for what we see today, but at the same time it can be said that developments have escalated under the Social Democratic leadership of the government and during the time of Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson as the Minister of Justice. During this time, shootings have become commonplace in many places, and over the past four years more than 150 people have been killed in over 1,100 shootings. We know that there are ten times more shootings in Sweden than in Germany among young men – ten times more! Law enforcement authorities have difficulties in maintaining law and order. It is well known, may I say, and a picture of problems on which we hope we agree. Not too long ago it was reported that gang groups had a meeting in central Gothenburg. The police went there, but no one was arrested and no one was arrested. Of course, it is incredibly worrying when, in a report after a report, you see that the judiciary, the police and society are not able to fight hard. We must create the conditions for doing just that. Let me point out another disappointing fact. In Denmark, there are fewer gang criminals in total than there are in Stockholm County. In a certain region of Sweden there are therefore more gang criminals in number than there are in our entire neighbouring country. The development of society shows that we need to work in a different way. It is not about going into rules and making small changes, it is about ensuring that we get pattern breaking tools and pattern breaking measures in place. For this reason, we from the Moderates want to make sure, among other things, to criminalise and review whether participation in gangs can be criminalised. We want to do this by including this in the Fundamental Law investigation, which looks at the criminalisation of participation in terrorist organisations. This is what the Minister of Justice says no to. The Moderates have presented a comprehensive ten-point programme, and in addition we have 40 proposals to tackle serious organised crime and gang crime in Sweden. But the Minister of Justice also says no to these proposals. I have asked the Minister of Justice whether he is prepared to include such a directive in the Basic Law investigation in order to obtain a criminalisation of participation in gangs on the ground. The answer is no. I have asked if he agrees with the other points in the ten-point programme of the Moderates to combat gang crime. I understand that the answer is no. Instead, he refers to other measures and to the 34-point programme. The 34-point program is good, but it's not enough. Another problem we see with the programme is that we do not really know what the final product will be. The whole thing will be compromised with a government party that does not share the formulation of problems on which I hope that I and at least the Minister of Justice can agree. You can only take this with the penalty discount for young people. Perhaps it was not the desired outcome and what the Minister of Justice had hoped for, if I understood him correctly earlier in the debates. So why not try it? Why not come to an agreement together on how we can combat gang crime and introduce these measures, which are model breaking?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-25	Madam President, I would like We had just such a process a year ago, when we were negotiating on this particular programme, these 34 points. The Moderates were at the negotiating table. But when we were going to finish it, when we had a new commandment and Mikael Damberg and I were going to anchor it with the Moderates, we were suddenly told that you didn't want to see us anymore. You didn't want to continue the negotiations. When we searched for you during the weekend when we were going to negotiate it was radio silence for several hours. Finally, you called and said: No, we don't want to settle anything. We don't even want to look at your offer. We do not want to continue the negotiations. That's what the Moderates do these days. When we invite you to negotiate, you will sit with us for a while, but after a while you will not be able to push it forward and will rise from the negotiating table. It's Legio now, I'd say. Even deals we made with the Moderates in the past have you broken and left. That's how the Moderates work these days. If Louise Meijer has criticism of the 34-point programme, that criticism could have been brought forward then, and we could have had a discussion then and perhaps could have reached an agreement. But you didn't. I say that the 34-point programme that we are now taking forward is the most comprehensive one that any government has come forward with. It covers a wide range of areas. Of course, the foundation is the major police expansion that we are now implementing. We're on our way to 10,000 more police officers by 2024. We've already reached halfway to that target. Right now we have more police officers in Sweden than we've ever had. We've done a lot of punitive work. Since we took office, we have carried out about fifty criminal sanctions and recent criminalisations – aggravated assault, aggravated blackmail, aggravated robbery, aggravated violence against civil servants, aggravated rape, aggravated gun crime, serious drug offences, gross illegal threats. We've tightened the penalties for murder. I could continue the entire speech by listing all the punitive measures we have done and everything we have worked on in the field of criminal law. Louise Meijer says it has no effect, but that is exactly what we have seen in recent years. The number of prison years imposed by Swedish courts has increased sharply over the last two years, by almost 25 per cent. Last year, more than 10,000 prison years were sentenced, which was an increase. Now, then, we sentence more, and we also sentence more to longer prison sentences than before. This can be seen in the correctional system – about 1 000 more detainees in two years. We have 100% occupancy in both prisons and detention centres in recent years. No government has therefore tightened the penalties more and increased criminal law more than we have done – especially, I would say, with a focus on gang crime. And we'll continue with that now, with the 34-point program at the bottom. Then the Moderates, who themselves did not even a fraction of all that we have done, say that they want to make some further marginal criminal law change here, which then apparently will do wonders. I say that the proposal you are now making would not. Almost everything that contributes to the activities of a criminal gang is already criminalised – of course the crimes themselves but also preparation for crime, attempted crime, conspiracy to crime and participation in crime. All that is already criminalised. Furthermore, what you are proposing would require a constitutional amendment, and we will not be able to do so before the next elections. What we are talking about is something that could enter into force in 2027. So we are talking about a marginal change, not more than one blow in the air, which would come into force in seven years' time. It is this discussion that the Moderates are now lifting up. I believe, Madam President, that we must act much more forcefully and much faster than that. That's the 34-point program.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-35	Madam President, I would like Proud but not satisfied was a summary from a former Social Democrat. Today, we hear the Minister of Justice being both proud and satisfied with what he thinks are measures that prevent the trend towards increased insecurity that we are seeing today. We know that insecurity has been stable in the past, but in the latest national security measurement it has increased. Then the Minister of Justice takes the opportunity in the debate to tell us everything that has been done to remedy the situation. But can't one be satisfied with what it looks like in Sweden today? Among young men between the ages of 16 and 19, there is growing concern about personal robbery. Since 2017, it has increased by 11 per cent. We know that every fifth young guy nowadays is afraid of being robbed. We also know that this is linked to the fact that there is actually an increased vulnerability to personal robbery. And not only are guys being robbed, it's also children robbing other children. This type of notification has increased by 30 per cent in 2019. During the time of the Minister of Justice, the trend has gone from insecurity to the fact that big cities with alienation areas have been characterised by the fact that now almost every small and medium-sized Swedish city feels that crime and insecurity are part of the cityscape. Let us take an example from our common hometown of Lund. In Lund we had problems with personal robbery in the city park a couple of years ago – incredibly worrying! Nowadays we see how girls don't dare to get home by themselves in the evenings, for example from student nations, because they are afraid of their safety. They have even started a non-profit initiative in Lund called Girl Shots. I think it's commendable – it's good that girls can help other girls come home late in the evenings – but that it should be needed in today's Sweden! In such a situation, to say that you are satisfied and think that what you have done is enough and that everything is already criminalised, surely you cannot do it. I also think it is wrong to say that the Moderates' proposal is about marginal changes. On the whole, these are not marginal changes. On the whole, this is about double punishment for gang criminals – hardly a marginal change. A system of search zones is hardly a marginal change. Anonymous witnesses are hardly a marginal change. Criminalising participation so that people as gangs cannot hold meetings in the middle of central Gothenburg – completely absurd – is not a marginal change. We want to provide the police with greatly enhanced possibilities to intercept and monitor gang members. We want more people to be taken care of by the LVU. We want the confidentiality between authorities to be broken so that you can share relevant information to prevent young people, but also adults, from getting involved in crime. We want to ensure that all authorities fight gang crime and that more gang criminals are expelled from Sweden. It is a pity that the Minister of Justice says that after a while the Moderates leave the table. It's not really the reality that is consistent. What happens after a while is that the Social Democrats have talked to the Green Party and that the Green Party then threatens to announce a government crisis. This is why, quite suddenly, a new proposal is coming, which could lead to less opportunities to lock up young criminals or to an increase in immigration, and then it is presented as a new proposal to the Moderates. No, the Moderates will not negotiate for worse conditions to sort out in this mess that we are currently seeing in Sweden.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-44	Madam President, I would like That was not the case at all when we negotiated the 34-point programme. We negotiated and put forward three or even four bids for the other parties, and then we took point after point. When we were about to gather an end result, we were only told by the Moderates that you did not want to see us anymore, even though you had not even seen the slips. That's how it was. It is a typical example of how the Moderates act these days. The Moderates don't want to make cross-block agreements anymore. It is not because we do not want it; on the contrary, we are concerned about it. This is something new. Last parliamentary term we were able to make such cross-block agreements. We settled with the other parties on a wide range of issues – migration policy, counter-terrorism measures, my area of armaments exports and many other things. Now, however, something has happened with the Moderates so that you do not want to settle. It may not matter to the substance of the matter at the moment. The 34-point program that we are now taking forward is full-scale in the sense that it moves the positions forward even more than we have already done. We did more than any other government during the last parliamentary term, and now we are pursuing it. We focus on things that can really be effective. We are pursuing the police deployment, as I have said, and we are making sure that the police are resourced in such a way that we will be able to cope with that upturn. We now train three times as many police officers as the Moderates did and start two new police training courses: one in Borås and one in Malmö. We are pursuing the major investment in camera surveillance. 450 new cameras have only been set up in recent years, and there will be another 150 next year. There's full speed on that part too. I'm going to get uniform cameras for officers on the outside. There's 8,000 cameras going out in that part, and we're going through with it. We are pursuing what we talked about with increased arrest possibilities, that is to say, to look at the crimes typically committed by the gang criminals and to increase the possibility of detention pending trial so that the criminals are detained. We're increasing the possibility of secret wiretaps so we can listen to the communication between the gang criminals. The latest thing we have done is this secret data reading that we now have in place and which means that you can also listen to encrypted information. We impose a restraining order in some respects. What came into force now was that, in the last few days, parole can also be combined with a restraining order that is monitored with a anklet. You simply say: You must not dwell in certain places. It could be in a square or near a former victim. You can control that, and we're in front of it. We also introduce the possibility of a ban on the stay of those sentenced to probation. They will also be monitored with a anklet. This is just a sample of everything we do. If I were to look forward to what we need to get even better at, there are two things that I would like to highlight. One is that I think we need to get even better at going on the money of the criminal gangs and taking their watches, cars, gold chains and cash. It's something that really feels for the gang criminals. Operation Rimfrost had such an element. We seized over 10 million in cash, over 30 cars, a number of fine watches and much more. We have a special investigation looking at extending confiscation opportunities even further. We want to highlight that part. The other thing that I want to highlight – and here, unfortunately, the Moderates are completely empty of politics – is to prevent crime and break the recruitment of criminal gangs. We must also be much better than we are today.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-57	Madam President, I would like I think it is clear that the Social Democrats are unable to sort out this situation. The Minister of Justice proposes things and is forward-looking in his speech, and I think that is a good thing. But the fear is that it will not be the way the Social Democrats want it to be, because it will return after negotiations with the Green Party, the Left Party and the Center Party and not have landed where the Minister now says it wants to land. That is the sad thing about this government and the current governance. You can't solve Sweden's big problems. One thing that does not concern the national as much as the municipal is this with the cameras, as the Minister of Justice himself highlighted in his speech. In Staffanstorp municipality, a neighbouring municipality to Lund, you can see that when you submit an application to the Swedish Data Protection Authority to set up and set up cameras, it takes no longer just six months but twelve months for the Swedish Data Protection Authority to make a decision. Then the hotspot that you want to guard may have escalated or been dismantled, and the crimes may have moved elsewhere. There are therefore many reasons for the Minister of Justice to review how to deal with the long processing times of the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The same is true of security guards, who are also a municipal tool in law enforcement. There we see that we have outdated legislation. You cannot apply for security guards to patrol the entire municipality, but it must be defined areas. You can see that security guards are not allowed to bring in and transport messy people to the police, for example. There are also things that need to be changed. Could the Minister of Justice consider doing two things here, i.e. reducing the length of proceedings and changing the rules for security officers?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-62	Madam President, I would like On both of those issues, Louise Meijer opens doors. As far as camera surveillance is concerned, we have already allocated increased resources to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. In addition, we have ensured that law enforcement authorities no longer need to be licensed, which means that the workload of the Data Protection Authority is eased. Now, therefore, the processing times in that authority are being reduced. When it comes to security guards, we have also set up a review on the powers and how security officers can work in the future. So those issues are also taken care of, I would say. The main question here is really: how should you do wide-ranging to get to this kind of crime? When I visit the affected areas, usually in collaboration with the police, the police in the affected areas often say three things. They say, "Yes, we need to be more." There's a need for more cops. And they say, "We need better tools. It may be about arrest possibilities, secret coercive measures, cameras and other things. But then they say one more thing, ‘ Keep in mind that it's not just about us police officers. If this is to work and we are to be able to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs, social services and leisure activities must work well, and the school in the affected area must be absolutely top class. Then we must also be prepared to set aside money for it. Then we must also have good cooperation with civil society, with sport and other associations. The whole of society must move in the right direction. It is precisely the overall impression that we have in our politics, I mean, but which the Moderates unfortunately lack. There is not much crime prevention work, and in your latest budget you are also cutting down on targeted state subsidies specifically to the school in these areas by SEK 400 million. The whole is needed – not only the law enforcement work, but also, in fact, crime prevention. It's important.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-68	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked me whether I intend to investigate whether wrong decisions on putting in palliative care for elderly covid-19 patients in nursing homes have been taken and what measures I intend to take on wrong assessments and decisions on palliative care are found in such an investigation. I would like to begin by emphasising that healthcare should be provided on equal terms in Sweden. Everyone, regardless of age, has the same right to an individual medical assessment. If a particular treatment is considered medically appropriate, the person should also receive it. So I and the government take possible abuses very seriously. The inspection of care, abbreviated IVO, was commissioned in April to analyse in particular what covid-19 means for the quality and safety of care. In Sweden, IVO is responsible for the supervision of healthcare, care and care, and the aim is both to examine possible errors and to strengthen knowledge and preparedness for the future. IVO has carried out a survey of all 1,700 special accommodations for the elderly. Based on the results, the Agency has an ongoing in-depth review of approximately 90 special accommodations. The focus of IVO's supervision has been to examine whether patients living in the country's special accommodations for the elderly receive individual assessment by doctors even during the ongoing pandemic and to examine whether patients receive care and treatment in accordance with that assessment. IVO will continue its mission and report on the results in December this year. The Commission is also examining the behaviour of various actors during the pandemic. However, I would like to remind you that, despite an often very pressured situation, the health and care staff have made magnificent efforts during the pandemic. In many parts of the country, the infection has been kept outside retirement homes. IVO estimates that the conditions for individual assessment and treatment are generally relatively good, and in particular the situation has improved during the pandemic. Review and learning for the future is important. The Government is closely monitoring the state of knowledge and, together with the expert authorities, develops possible measures. I would like to point out that the review started several months ago and that action is taken if necessary.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer, although it was a little small in terms of the importance of the question. Almost 6 000 people have so far been victims of covid-19. A large number of these have lived in retirement homes. Those who would be most protected became those who were most affected when the government failed to isolate retirement homes from the infection. Measures such as restraining orders were put in place too late, and the readiness for safe and secure care for the elderly in a social crisis was non-existent. The leaders of the Social Democrats have for a long time dismantled our country's ability to defend us as well as cope with a crisis. At the same time, we have had to witness a steady deterioration in care for the elderly. Medical knowledge has been lost, and staff without training in neither healthcare nor caring for people have been hired. In many cases, they have not even been able to communicate with our elderly. The lack of emergency preparedness became painfully evident when the sick could not be offered intensive care and when the staff did not have adequate protective equipment. The lack of quality in care for the elderly became painfully evident when it was discovered that knowledge of the most basic hygiene was lacking. The infection spread out uncontrollably, and most elderly and sick were left to die on their accommodations without life - sustaining measures. The government's inability to stop the coronavirus spread among the elderly resulted in today's eating testup in a lack of intensive care places. General, not individual, decisions have been made not to provide life - sustaining care. Someone's beloved mother, father, grandmother or grandfather has not had a fair chance of surviving the virus. But the old ones were supposed to die anyway. The virus only caused death to appear earlier. Madam President, I would like That sight gives me the creeps. It is the result of a society in complete decay. It raises strong feelings, thoughts and many questions. How could this happen? When exactly did our older ones get so little worth? Why is it accepted that staff in care for the elderly are often neither trained nor able to speak the language? Who should offer the medical skills and equipment needed in care for the elderly? Madam President, I would like How does the government view its responsibility for the greatest health and care disaster of our time? What measures does the government intend to take to prevent it from happening again?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-83	Madam President, I would like We have been through an unprecedented pandemic and a health crisis which is the most widespread since the Second World War. So many people have had to change their way of life. That's what they've done. So many people have experienced the pain of becoming seriously ill or losing a loved one. I think it has perhaps been the most difficult thing for those who have not been able to sit with their relatives either when they know that life is running out. So many people have struggled and worked hard under conditions that neither Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt, myself nor anyone else could predict would happen so quickly and actually not an entire country but to a very large extent in the region where we are now, in some surrounding regions and also elsewhere in the country. But above all, we share the pain, the difficulty, the challenge and the pandemic with a whole world. We have made many efforts to strengthen an activity that we must safeguard every day. The welfare we have built up has enabled Sweden to double the intensive care capacity during a pandemic. The National Board of Health and Welfare was forced to draw up priority guidelines if we were to find ourselves in a situation where resources were insufficient. There has been no reason to use that priority document. Intensive care has been sufficient, at the expense of patients who have had to stand back and are now waiting for treatment, for surgery and for interventions that are part of the so-called care debt we are talking about. So intensive care did an enormous job. The entire health care system did an enormous job. The general picture is that the resources in health care were sufficient for others to stand back. Everything that Sweden has done during the pandemic – the work of the government, the work of the authorities, the work of the regions and the work of the municipalities – has, of course, played a major role. We have jointly ensured the establishment of national purchasing centres to buy in the protective equipment that a whole world has been crying for at the same time. Many countries also closed, very unsolidarically, borders and said that, while someone else has ordered this protective equipment, we want to keep it in our country. Sweden did not. We have made many efforts to keep borders open. I believe that an open world could have met this pandemic better. Let us hope that, as the wave sweeps over Europe again, we have learned from what happened at the time. It created enormous problems and challenges. I think Ann-Christine From Utterstedt should think back a little about the time it was. We had interpellation discussions and debates; I think it is appropriate to call it precisely discussions. We were in a situation where everyone felt the seriousness of the moment. We knew the difficulties. We saw how all the actors involved toiled, not least all those in the care of the elderly that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt describes. Many of them are very competent. They're nurses. They're specialists. They've been working hard. To say that nurses, carers and other staff do not have the skills to do the work they do in everyday life, I find rude. On the other hand, it is quite right that no one was really prepared for the surge that came all over Sweden and not least elderly care. This staff has now been given the opportunity to receive training in hygiene practices, which have sat down.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-92	Madam President, I would like It is important to point out that I am not talking about those who are trained nurses, who know the language and who know what to do in their work. What I criticise is all those who are not educated, who do not know the language and have unfortunately contributed to the spread of the infection. I can only say that the Minister of Social Affairs and the Social Democrats once again say that we did not see it coming. Unfortunately, this is also the case. The Minister himself says that health care should be given on equal terms in Sweden. Everyone, regardless of age, has the same right to an individual medical assessment. If a particular treatment is considered medically appropriate, the person should also receive it. Nevertheless, both staff and relatives have witnessed that decisions on palliative care have been made, among other things, by telephone without doctors having even met the elderly or through a general decision that has thus applied to elderly people who have fallen ill and who have not been deemed to need oxygen on the accommodation. Moreover, oxygen is not even available as ordinary equipment in retirement homes. The decision on palliative care has thus been made without alternatives other than an open window to tip for air through. Decisions have not been taken at all according to the individual assessment to which all people are entitled. These are decisions that have not been based at all on the health of everyone, contrary to what the Minister of Social Affairs has said. This is extremely serious. About a hundred relatives have so far reported the lack of care to IVO, the Inspection for Health and Care. They feel that they did not understand what palliative care meant. The decision to put care into the final stage of life shall be taken in agreement with relatives. That too has broken. IVO is currently reviewing elderly care management of covid-19. The Corona Commission is doing the same. I ask again, Madam President, because I do not have a clear answer from Minister Hallengren: how does the Minister intend to deal with it all if one or both of the reviews show that wrong decisions on palliative care have been taken?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-98	Madam President, I would like As usual, I note that the Swedish Democrats and Ann-Christine From Utterstedt have always known everything about what would happen and have had everything in place. Perhaps it would be appropriate for the Corona Commission to call Ann-Christine From Utterstedt, because all the answers already appear to exist and all the conclusions have already been drawn. I think that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt should be too good to draw conclusions in the Swedish Parliament that really no one else can draw yet. The Health and Social Care Inspection examines 1 700 retirement homes, where there are 85 000 people and where 100 000 employees are employed. However, the sweeping summaries drawn by Mrs From Utterstedt in this speaker's chair seem to me to be very remarkable. But we'll see about that. We can put Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt's script next to the Corona Commission report in a month's time. You should always be very careful to draw general conclusions from the individual cases you see. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt quoted the speech I had just given, so nothing really needs to be quoted. It's about the Health Act. The government has made no exceptions to the Health Act. The National Board of Health and Welfare has made no exceptions to the Health Act. But we have had a pandemic, and we suspect that there are contexts, cases, perhaps regions, perhaps municipalities and perhaps housing where you have not done what you should do. Therefore, the Inspection for Health and Care, which is the Government's supervisory authority, has been given the Government's task not only to generally monitor healthcare and care, but also specifically to monitor how the right to receive individual assessments has taken place during the pandemic. That is exactly what is being examined. Nobody sweeps anything under the carpet. The inspection has identified some ninety retirement homes where deficiencies have been detected. It goes on to clarify what has happened. I do not think it should be said then that 1,700 retirement homes have done in one way or another. If we are serious about the staff in Swedish elderly care doing a good job and that we want more people to work there and have the right conditions, I think we are doing elderly care a great disservice for the future if we draw such very safe conclusions. Some ninety retirement homes are very much. No one says it is not serious, but we also need to know what kind of shortcomings have occurred and why they have occurred. Not least, the discussion in Stockholm has become very attentive. Today, I cannot answer what has to do with having a very large number of actors, not having switched home services to the municipal level or having procured various activities. Perhaps Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has an idea about that too? I think we should wait for the report from the Inspection on Health and Care before drawing too strong conclusions. When it comes, of course, we will draw conclusions. If we can act at national level, we will. If it is to be dealt with at regional or local level, it must be done. The guidelines of the National Board of Health and Welfare are established. The Health Act also applies in a pandemic.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-106	Madam President, I would like Given our country's emergency preparedness – or a non-existent one – the government has not done its job properly either. We are faced with the fact that almost 6 000 people in Sweden have died in the suites of covid-19. In comparison with our Nordic neighbours, we are completely unique, and our death rates are among the highest in the world. At the same time, the spread of infection is again increasing. The lump in the stomach is growing, and uncertainty creates even more questions. How prepared is the government this time, that is, in the face of the second wave? Do we have enough protective equipment available? Are the staff in the care of the elderly now sufficiently trained to cope with basic hygiene, such as washing and spreading their hands, and being able to handle protective equipment properly? Madam President, I would like How will our elders be protected this time as the second wave spreads? Are they again standing at the edge of the eating testup or will they be offered the care they deserve this time and, as we have noted here in the debate, are entitled to?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-109	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt nevertheless points to the seriousness of her last speech and does not just rumble. We're in the middle of a pandemic. We will learn everything possible from what has happened in Sweden and in other countries. Unfortunately, there is no conclusion. There is no country that has handled the infection without negative consequences. I think I have answered a number of interpellations and written questions from Ann-Christine From Utterstedt as I have tried to describe, as far as we can draw conclusions, that it may be that we were very different met from the beginning. We had a lot of infection for a few weeks before the pandemic really broke out and before it was known around Europe. This happened during the time when the Swedish people travelled a lot and we had a social spread, something that was not the same in our neighbouring countries. Geographical proximity does not always provide all the answers. Spain and Portugal can testify to this, as can Germany, Belgium, Austria and Italy. Many of the new EU Member States from the former Eastern bloc are now also seeing the spread of the disease. Let us hope that, as a population, we can take new steps to maintain the restrictions that apply and that we will not do our utmost to find different loopholes. Of course, the staff who worked hard throughout the spring have benefited enormously from the hygiene training that has been offered. 200 000 have taken part of it. Of course, you have completely different routines in place when you know that you are dealing with a pandemic called covid-19 than you had in March. It is, however, about all of us. We must follow recommendations and restrictions. Municipalities and regions must be quick to pay attention to outbreaks and take the measures they are able to take. In this work we shall continue to help each other.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-114	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that the authorities for which I am responsible do not cooperate with actors who have extensive links with Islamism, and whether I intend to take any initiatives to examine the impact on the implementation of the Government's democracy strategy that authorities in the implementation of tasks that are part of the strategy interact with actors that have extensive links to Islamism. Let me begin by pointing out that public funds should only go to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society, as formulated in the Constitution and in the international conventions on human rights. Madam President, I would like It is in everyone's interest to safeguard the legitimacy of public authorities' contacts with civil society. Therefore, the government has also taken a number of measures. In its decision on guidelines for the Council for Education 2020, the Government has stated that the Council will provide an in-depth assessment of the so-called "democracy objective", which states that the state grant will support activities that contribute to strengthening and developing democracy. In addition, work is under way to review the democratic conditions in state grant regulations and the application of these conditions. In 2019, the Democracy Condition Investigation submitted its report to the Government. The report contains proposals for a clearer and uniform democracy condition for state grants to civil society organisations. The proposals also cover the regulation on state aid to adult education. The report has been referred and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. As regards the role of the Swedish Media Council, which intends to develop, among other things, the forms of enhanced collaboration of media and information literacy initiatives, known as MIK work, the Authority develops the implementation of the assignment independently.
i-AzmwXubja1B3bXJyq6oscJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Lind, for the answer to the interpellation! The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly raised in this House the issue of state actors over which the government governs and how they contribute to legitimising organisations linked to Islamism in Sweden. The study association Ibn Rushd, mentioned in this interpellation, is such an organization. It has links with the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood, links that are evident, among other things, from the study association's statutes and from where its assets will end up in a possible dissolution. In addition, Ibn Rushd has repeatedly invited various Islamic hate preachers and created a platform for them in different ways. There have also been other ways of interacting with actors who are part of the Muslim Brotherhood network. It should be clear to the government, I think, what you're doing on Ibn Rushd's side. Sweden cannot afford a government that is so slow-started and naive that it does not take strong action against this in time. Madam President, I would like Despite all Ibn Rushd's links to Islamism – and with the good memory of the government – the National Education Council distributes tens of millions of SEK a year in state contributions to this Islamist-linked organisation. For this, the Folkbildningsrådet and the government are strongly questioned, not only here in the Swedish parliament but also by established researchers such as Magnus Ranstorp, Aje Carlbom and others. A number of municipalities have also understood the problem of Ibn Rushd's links to Islamism. This year, among other things, Gothenburg's tad and Eskilstuna municipality stopped the grants at municipal level for this reason. The government is now trying, with very limited credibility, to signal a tightening up of which organisations are to receive state grants intended for adult education. In her response to my interpellation, Amanda Lind points out that this year the Swedish National Education Council has decided to tighten state grant conditions and that the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet's office will be strengthened with a particular focus on developing control and follow-up. It is about this type of action. This is good. However, it is not certain that this will lead to any real change in the interaction with and support for Islamist-linked organisations. Madam President, I would like If the government is serious about extremists not receiving state subsidies, it should reasonably be followed by consistent and credible action. As more and more municipalities withdraw the grants to Ibn Rushd and established researchers repeatedly sound alarms about the study association's Islamism, what do authorities that the government is responsible for then? Well, as I point out in the interpellation, this year the collaboration with Ibn Rushd is being deepened through the Swedish Media Council, an authority for which Amanda Lind is responsible. I therefore wonder: Why is the National Media Council, an authority for which Amanda Lind is responsible, deepening its cooperation with an Islamist-linked organisation rather than stopping and checking what it is you are really doing?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-123	Madam President, I would like I have also stood in this House in the past and debated with Jonas Andersson on issues relating to the importance of democracy conditions for our civil society and the importance of having a good follow-up on where state subsidies and all other public funds go. I would also like to emphasise that the work on strengthened and clarified democracy conditions, which we are now pursuing on the part of the government, is very important. I take it very seriously. I see that living civil society is an important ingredient in our democracy. That is also why we have state support for civil society and the reason why many municipalities support civil society. Here I think there is a dividing line between the Swedish Democrats on the one hand and the government and the majority of the parties in this House on the other. The Swedish democrats want to make draconian cuts in support of public education in their budget. On the contrary, I believe that we should safeguard support for peoples' education. The study associations are making an important contribution to including different voices in our democracy. But then it is particularly important that we ensure that aid does not go to extremist forces. Those who receive support, such as study associations, should have an activity that meets the democratic values we have in society. We have not had sufficiently clear and uniform conditions for democracy. The follow-up has certainly failed. I am pleased that we have now given money to museums, so that they can strengthen their work with the grant, and that we are now working intensively on the conditions of democracy. For me, this is a reason to protect state aid and to protect the rich civil society. We must also safeguard the legitimacy of state aid; there should never be any doubt that state aid should not be able to go to anti-democratic forces and that human rights should be respected. Examination is good, and I welcome the debate. This is linked to our being able to have an open democratic society. One should be able to question things, as the Swedish Democrats do. But then you have to be prepared for counterattacks too. I think it is important to point out that the Folkbildningsrådet is an association that distributes state aid to peoples' education and has a great responsibility for monitoring. Ibn Rushd has been reviewed in this case. A number of development areas have been identified that this study association needs to work with. I think that's good. It is a rather young study association that needs to take steps further. Although I am not responsible for the study associations in the government, I follow this work closely. I think these are important points that have been made. There are areas of development that I really hope and assume Ibn Rushd takes very seriously. But I do not, like the Swedish Democrats, want to use this as a reason to pull away the bones of peoples' education, because we need it in our society. We also need to include Muslim civil society in the democratic dialogue and in the education of the people. I assume that Jonas Andersson will do the same.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-129	Madam President, I would like We note that an authority for which Amanda Lind is responsible, the Swedish Media Council, has this year initiated a collaboration with the Islamist-linked study association Ibn Rushd, as I said in the previous speech. This is done within the framework of a network that works with media and information literacy, MIK. As the State Media Council has carried out this collaboration within the framework of a government mission to help implement the Government's democracy strategy, this is particularly worthy of attention in this House, I think. The government's democracy strategy must therefore be implemented with the help of Islamist-linked organisations. That's madness, Amanda Lind. Madam President, I would like In 2018, it became apparent that Ibn Rushd has initiated a collaboration with the media house al-Jazira, which is based in Qatar. Participants during the Ibn Rushd-supported conference Muslim Family Days were offered a kind of journalistic education in collaboration with the media house. al-Jazira, in turn, is a platform for the Muslim Brotherhood's ideas and for its spiritual leader, Yusuf al-Qaradawi, personally. al-Qaradawi has had its own program format in al-al-Jazira's Arabic-speaking part, full of different Islamic moves. It is very remarkable that, through the State Media Council, the government is now, in a way, taking the help of these Islamists to implement its democratic strategy. Madam President, I would like In written questions to Amanda Lind, me and my party colleague Björn Söder have discussed the Swedish Media Council's collaboration with Ibn Rushd. As a result, the National Media Council has stated in a newsletter about MIK that it is false that Ibn Rushd has links with the Muslim Brotherhood, although the connections are well documented and have been proven over and over again by established researchers. Even more serious about the newsletter is that the agency problematizes that critical written questions are asked in the Riksdag about the Swedish Media Council and Ibn Rushd from MPs like me and Björn Söder. That is why I have two questions. How does Amanda Lind see the government's democracy strategy through the Swedish Media Council being implemented with the help of an organisation that has clear links to Islamism? Does Amanda Lind see how serious it is for a government agency for which she is responsible to problematise members of parliament's performance of their democratic tasks?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-133	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, I welcome all kinds of debate. Of course, when you present an opinion, you also have to be prepared for counterattacks. This also applies to the debate on the activities of Ibn Rushd, where different voices have been raised. The Folkbildningsrådet has carried out a review and found a number of development areas that this study association needs to address. Having said that, it is an eligible study association. The State Media Council is an authority that has to act independently. I will not comment here in the speaker's chair either on writing in newsletters or on the fact that the media and information literacy work chooses to cooperate with one of the eligible study associations in Sweden. The authority is free to do so. Again, I would like to point to the Government's decision on guidelines to the Folkbildningsrådet for 2020. The report should provide an in-depth assessment of the so-called democracy objective. A Board meeting has also recently decided to continue the review and review the criteria. That's good. We need to ensure that there is security in the fact that the funds distributed by the state go to actors who fulfil social and democratic values. Having said that, I also defend a living, free and independent civil society. I note that Jonas Andersson does not answer my question. Is it important to include Muslim civil society in the democratic debate in the activities of study associations? How does Jonas Andersson view it? Is it not also an important component of the democratic dialogue and to strengthen civil society through the important role of study associations to meet many different people in our country and to support them in a democratic organisation and community?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-140	Madam President, I would like It was not clear to me that Amanda Lind asked me a question in the last speech. That's why I didn't answer. Now the problem is that it is Islamism that we are dealing with here. It is not some kind of moderate version of Islam. This government is involved in funding an organisation that has well-established links with Islamism and the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood. That's the problem. In an interpellation debate in September with Amanda Lind's government colleague Anna Ekström, I asked how the government views the Islamic Muslim Brotherhood. The answer didn't work. I didn't get an answer to my question. The question was completely ignored by the government. I do not think that we can have it so that the government ducks for such important issues when the authorities for which the government is responsible cooperate with organisations in the Muslim Brotherhood network. Madam President, I would like I want to give the government another chance to answer the question. How does the government view the Muslim Brotherhood? Is it a reasonable partner for Swedish authorities?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-145	Madam President, I would like I can answer that question. No, I do not see the Muslim Brotherhood as a reasonable partner for Swedish authorities. I want to repeat what I am clear about. We must safeguard state support for civil society. It should only go to those organisations that fulfil the democratic values that exist in our society. We are now working to develop uniform strengthened democracy conditions. We strengthen the possibility of control via increased support to museums in order for them to be able to work with their grant. The Folkbildningsrådet tightens up its routines. I think that is absolutely necessary. It is not to do what the Swedish Democrats want, to pull away the bones of peoples' education widely in Sweden and to devalue the value of including Muslim civil society and Muslim organisations in the work. Having said that, it is extremely important that things do not go wrong. That is something I will stand up for 100% in this House, too.
i-BQbQ83ZaGHo2JVwUCAfv4E	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister for Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister for Education Anna Ekström and Minister Anna Hallberg. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-151	Madam President, I would like In a press release from last week, Minister of Education Anna Ekström says: ..................................................... Seriously — A Fast Process? Last December, the Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg concluded that SCB can no longer publish school results at school level, which led to the Swedish National Agency for Education having stopped publishing data on 1 September this year. This has led to the School Inspectorate no longer knowing which schools are in the country, which is an almost absurd state. On June 17, this year, the government commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to try to solve the problem. So from the announcement of the judgment, it went over five months before anything happened. That is why I wonder why the Government did not act last December when the verdict came.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-154	Madam President, I would like If you're going to be really careful, there was a judgment in December, but it took a few months for that sentence to take effect. I can assure Lars Püs that this is an issue that the government has taken very seriously. We have worked very intensively. During a spring in which, in all honesty, we have put other things aside to deal with a terrible pandemic, the issue of school statistics has been very high on the agenda. We have acted by ensuring that Skolverket and SCB have received assignments. Before that, of course, we did investigations at the Department to ensure that this mission was really needed. A few weeks ago, Madam President, we have already been able to come up with a very quick regulation which means that we have a school register in place – all of this because we have a school system in Sweden where school results, children's grades, are business secrets.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-157	Madam President, I would like Rather, I get the feeling that you have tried to put the blame precisely on the free schools, as Morgan Johansson did on Twitter a few months ago, when it is actually the case that the free schools have been very clearly critical of the judgment of the Administrative Court of Appeal. Would it not then be more appropriate for you to admit that you have misjudged the effect of the judgment and now acted in panic so that, for example, the School Inspectorate can know which schools there are?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-159	Madam President, I would like I advise Lars Püs to decide: have we acted in panic or have we been tough? The system that we have to act on is a system that sometimes leads to completely unreasonable results. As a result, we get grade inflation, and that leads to our keeping school statistics secret. I am deeply critical of this system and I criticise the system and the parliament that maintains this system rather than the individual free schools.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-163	Madam President, I would like Put that fucking baton away or I'll shove it up in you. This is not from a gangster movie, but is what a female police officer heard in the multicultural Angered during an intervention. Although more police officers are employed, low wages, poor working conditions and precarious living have led to fewer and fewer police officers working in external service. In 2015, the figure was 9 226. At the end of 2019 it was 9,049. Not only that, four out of ten seats at the Police College are empty. The number of police per capita in Sweden is less than two thirds of the EU average, while Brå's latest security survey shows that almost every other Swedish person is concerned about crime in society. Since 2018, the Swedish Democrats have proposed an extra SEK 6 000 wage investment per month for each individual police officer. However, the government and the other parties in this House have voted against it. My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is: when will the government update the police profession to the degree necessary to keep police officers in external service and get competent applicants to the Police College?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-167	Madam President, I would like One of the most important issues the government is working on is to increase the number of police officers and police employees. We're opening two new police colleges. At the last admission, 1 300 people were admitted to police training. That's a record number. We've never had so many people applying for police training. But this takes time. We come from a situation when we trained very few police officers in Sweden. Now we have increased this greatly, and although we are only halfway to the goal of getting 10 000 more police workers by 2024, we are ahead of the forecast. To succeed in this, we must continue to invest in the police as we do. We must continue to work with good working conditions. Happily, one might say that the average salary of a police officer has increased by $1,000 a month since this government took office. But the work will continue. We're going to reach the target of 10,000 more employees. We will increase security throughout the country with more colleagues but also good working conditions for the police who work for example in external service.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-170	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that the government is investing in the police, and I hope that is something we will see in the forthcoming budget. Another thing I wonder about is that today the police have a huge communications department with 200 employees. This can be compared to Svenska Dagbladet, which has a total of 160 employees. In addition to the large communications department, the police also buy PR services. What I wonder is why the core business is not given full priority, because it is surely the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs to ensure that the police use their resources adequately.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-173	Madam President, I would like I note that the Police Authority has never had as many employees as today. There have never been as many police officers employed as at the mid-year end, and we will continue to increase the number of police officers in Sweden. When it comes to how the police use their resources, they will receive SEK 1.9 billion next year to continue the expansion of the police. It is the police who must decide how to use the resources. I thought there was broad political agreement that we should not politicise the use of police resources but that the Police Authority is best placed to determine how resources are used.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-175	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ibrahim Baylan. A good business environment is crucial for our country's prosperity, and one important issue is the application of its laws and regulations. Here, the authorities and the government, with their instructions to the authorities, have a great responsibility for the work being done with legal certainty, quality and a good degree of service, etc. The Swedish Agency for Growth recently submitted the Simplification Report to the Government. It contains many important and useful observations, including concerning staff and hotel permits. What we can see, however, does not address matters such as governance, management, leadership and regulatory simplification as a sustainability and culture issue in its report. My question is how the Government and Government will work concretely on the Swedish Agency for Growth's report Simplification journey for better governance, service and increased entrepreneurship.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-179	Madam President, I would like I thank Jonny Cato for an important question. Last year, as new Minister of Economic Affairs, I just initiated this simplification journey by going around the country and meeting entrepreneurs, organisations and researchers to see just where the problem lies in the regulatory framework that we have and how we will work together to try to improve an already international measurement very good business climate and make it even better. This resulted in precisely the mission to the Swedish Agency for Growth, which Jonny Cato talked about, to concretise and return to the government with proposals. Now they've done it. We are analysing the Swedish Agency for Growth's report, and I see that we are also moving forward and making concrete proposals for changes both in regulations and perhaps also in laws. I am more than happy to do so, both with the Center Party and with other parties here in the Riksdag, so that the companies get long-term opportunities.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-182	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. It is a good initiative that the government has taken. But it must also lead to concrete results and changes for the country's entrepreneurs. We in the Center Party wonder how the Government sees in ascribing greater mandates and powers to the Rule Council to strengthen the regulatory simplification work.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-184	Madam President, I would like I have absolutely nothing against that – quite the contrary. We are having such a discussion, and there are also some concrete proposals. However, as Jonny Cato knows, we have experienced the worst crisis in our modern history, and very much of the work has had to stand aside in order to save businesses and jobs and therefore the workers in our country. Of course, this work will also continue because we are still in the midst of the crisis. But, believe me, we will continue, together with business organisations and trade unions, to improve the business environment in our country.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-187	Madam President, I would like I also have a question for Ibrahim Baylan. The other day, nine new road maps for fossil freedom were submitted to the Government's Fossil-free Sweden initiative. The target is zero emissions in Sweden by 2045. There are now a total of 21 roadmaps for fossil freedom, including from the construction sector, aviation, agriculture, the forest industry, the concrete industry, the steel industry and most recently from the transport industry. Today, a seminar was held on the theme of a fossil-free transport sector. All of this is very important. But the roadmaps are running in a bit of a different direction. Among other things, according to many road maps, we want very much biofuels, which we know is a limited resource on which we cannot rely alone. Now everyone is wondering, what happens now? What does the government intend to do with all these road maps? Is it only seminars, or is it also going to be a workshop so that we get reduced emissions for real?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-191	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for an urgent question. Of course it has to be a workshop, and it's a workshop. I have to say that I am proud of the way in which the Swedish industry and industry have responded to this challenge, to ensure that we become the world's first fossil-free welfare country and get rid of emissions while at the same time creating sustainable growth and therefore sustainable jobs. Of course, we are taking these roadmaps into the work of the government, and we are developing changed regulations and new resources, but also new forms of collaboration to bring about new innovations. If we can show that this is quite possible – to get rid of emissions and, at the same time, to strengthen the economy – we will also be a pioneer country. Madam President, I would like There is so much going on that is so promising. Just take steel without coal. It was previously considered unrealistic. But it is becoming a reality thanks to the cooperation between the government and the Swedish industry.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-194	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that the Minister for Economic Affairs has just mentioned resources. We in the Left Party have set aside SEK 4.5 billion for the next three years to make sure that these roadmaps are about to become a workshop and that there will be a real reduction in emissions. I see that there are a great many seminars on these road maps, and that is a good thing. But we do not need more seminars, we need action for real. I would therefore now like to know what the government is doing with these 21 fossil-free roadmaps that are now in the Government Office. You can't just arrange seminars on them, can you?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-196	Madam President, I would like I believe that dialogue is very important in order to find a common way forward on a very complex but necessary issue to resolve. We are working and have presented the biggest budget and the biggest investment in climate action ever. Many of these measures involve concrete measures to help Swedish industry and society change at such a rate that we become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It's not just talk, it's also workshop here and now.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-198	Madam President, I would like Finally came the message this weekend that the prosecutors are getting the money they have requested. It is announced in any case that it will come in an additional budget. It is incredibly remarkable that the government could not shake up SEK 50 million in a reform space of SEK 105 billion. It is still remarkable, however, that the opposition in the Riksdag required a heavy pressure for the government to finally realise this, and the message was given only a few hours before the party leader debate in SVT's Agenda. Now the fire is out temporarily. But the government still lacks a long-term plan for how to expand the Prosecution Authority, which is an important part of the Swedish judicial system. The fact that it went wrong is evidenced by the fact that the government has now changed its mind. But I would like to ask Minister Damberg: did you forget about the prosecutors, or did you ignore their desire for the budget where there was zero crowns to the Prosecution Office?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-201	Madam President, I would like The Prosecution Authority receives SEK 1.7 billion each year in grants, so it is not that it is zero SEK to the Prosecution Authority. Since 2014, we have expanded the Prosecution Authority by 30 percent in the long term. Thus, it has increased its activities by almost one third over the years. So there has been a massive expansion of the Prosecutor's Office. But it is true that we need a long-term plan for the development of the whole judiciary. It must not be the case that the Prosecution Authority becomes a bottleneck for the major investments that we are now making on, for example, the Police Authority. As we expand the Police Authority, there will be more people working to fight crime. Then the prosecutors, the prisons and the judiciary also have to go along, and long-term commitment is required. I believe that this government has shown that it is serious about major efforts in the whole legal chain to combat crime in Sweden.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-204	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with the Minister for the Interior in what he concludes by saying in his speech. With this, I would also like to point out another shortcoming in the government's budget. It's like an accident rarely comes alone. There is one other authority where there are many prosecutors who are doing an extremely important job, not least linked to financial crime, namely the Economic Crime Authority. They also received zero crowns in increased space, even though they requested 70 million crowns and said that it is of crucial importance. Will there be an additional budget there too, Mikael Damberg?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-205	Madam President, I would like I can tell Andreas Carlson that we will continue to invest in the whole chain of justice. Then both the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency will be important parts of such a long-term strategy to fight back crime in Sweden. I can see that this budget is very large – SEK 105 billion – to restart the Swedish economy, create 75 000 new jobs and invest heavily in the judiciary but also in other parts of society that are required in the midst of a pandemic. It is also important to say that we are in a special situation where major investments are needed to cope with the coronapandemine.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-208	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Education Anna Ekström on the development and situation of the special school. I visited Linköping the other day, where you have a fantastic business around upper secondary school and the individual program. But we quickly got to grips with the lack of qualified teachers and the lack of experienced educators who know the pedagogy of the special school and that many of the government initiatives do not really meet this target group of staff in the school system. This also unfortunately confirms the national picture that the Swedish School Inspectorate, the Swedish National Audit Office and others have pointed out for a long time, namely that the quality is lacking, that the support is lacking and that the training opportunities are lacking. The question to the government is: How should we secure the competence of special school so that the students there will also meet the best teachers?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you for lifting a school form in this Question Time that we are talking about far too little, Roger Haddad! The Swedish school should be available for all children, also for those children who need to attend what we today call special school. The government is very aware of the different, let us say, challenges and problems that we have ahead of us in the field of special education and special education in general. Then what have we done? Yes, thanks to the collaboration we have with the Centers and Liberals, we have continued a major investment in special pedagogy support in the form of both competence development of existing staff and special investment in special teachers and special pedagogics. We have also set up a large study that has made a proposal that is about increasing the opportunities to ensure that there are resource schools in Sweden for children who really need it. It is also a question of ensuring that there is a possibility for specific teaching groups. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Roger Haddad for his good cooperation in this area.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-216	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Many of these proposals have, of course, been pursued by the Liberals for a long time, such as reviewing inclusion and securing the right to resource school and teaching groups. A few years ago, we also contributed to the reintroduction of special teacher training in higher education. Unfortunately, we still see the consequences of the old policy, but in this case it is about the staff who may not be teachers but need special school skills. Many of the national initiatives do not cover this target group.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-218	Madam President, I would like I'll take that question with me, Roger Haddad. We must continue to discuss these issues in our joint cooperation on school funding. I would like to take this opportunity not only to thank Roger Haddad but also to mention a young student who has attended special school. His name is Rasmus Westlund and he is fighting stubbornly for us to stop saying "special school" and start calling the school what it is, namely a school. Thank you, Roger Haddad, for putting the issues of special school importance on the table of Parliament! That's where they belong.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-220	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Home Secretary. For more than ten years, twelve authorities have been working together to combat organised crime. Since 2018, a further nine agencies have been added, and the Report on Organised Crime in 2019 describes both work and development. Crime against paying parts of the welfare system is high and shows no signs of slowdown. Several of the cooperating authorities describe violations of welfare systems as the most serious crime here and now.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-223	Madam President, I would like In order to get to grips with gang crime in Sweden, it is absolutely necessary that several authorities work together. This is also why the government has changed the instructions to all of these twelve authorities so that it is now included in their instructions to work together against serious organised crime in Sweden. One of the focus areas is welfare crime. We see that these gangs not only make money from drugs but that many of the gangs also have a bone in welfare crime. That is why we have given these authorities the task of carrying out a pilot project linked to incorrect civil records, because the basis for welfare crime is often incorrect civil records. It is the IRS that leads that work.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. These criminals are looking for all the gaps that can be found in our community building. This leads me to the conviction that we need to work in a completely different way when we build the systems, transfers and benefits – that is, the welfare system. Simplicity and agility must never be an invitation to finance crime. How does the Government view the need to spend more clearly on the money to strangle the financing of crime?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-227	Madam President, I would like I think that money is a very important way to strangle and weaken gang-criminal environments in Sweden, and that is what the Swedish Police Authority means. That is why we must continue to work not only with the state authorities but also with the municipalities. Take a municipality like Södertälje, who is consistently and clearly working to ensure that criminals cannot take advantage of welfare services. This is done in order to create not only a safer city but also a better condition for all children and young people growing up in Södertälje. We have much to learn from Södertälje's work in this area.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-228	Madam President, I would like Because of covid-19, we all have to change our lives and help reduce the infection. The pandemic affects different sectors of society differently, and one example is that the recommendations for number of visitors differ for different traders. Some may have several hundred visitors, while others, especially in the cultural and sports sector, have very clear limits to 50. The differences between cultural and sporting events, amusement parks and flea markets on the one hand and restaurants and supermarkets on the other are incomprehensible and illogical. We are now also seeing an increase in the spread of infection, including in my home town of Uppsala.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-230	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what we have already changed, so nowadays it is the same rules that apply to restaurant activities and troubadours. We've removed that inconsequentiality. However, several illogicalities remain in the system because Swedish legislation is currently based on the Order Act. It is not designed to deal with a situation where we will reduce the spread of infection in society. The Public Health Agency has been tasked with reviewing a wide range of examples of exceptions for activities where one has raised one's hand and said that one can conduct the business in a safe manner. The Public Health Agency has now been given our task to assess whether there are further exceptions to the Order Act. In addition, the government will investigate whether we should completely depart from the law of order as a basis for legislation in this area. It will take a little longer, but in order to get more logical legislation in place, I think it is absolutely necessary to carry out a review of the legislation.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-232	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It is clear that justice and equality are also important in the work against the pandemic. It is also clear that we have had a great deal of focus and discussion on just some of the players, such as culture and sport, while others have been completely forgotten. For example, flea markets are such an actor.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-234	Madam President, I would like As far as culture and sport are concerned, we know that there is a proposal waiting to be made on the subject of sitting audiences. In fact, it is waiting for the Swedish Public Health Agency's assessment – it has previously been said that it is possible to conduct events with a sitting audience up to 500 people. The Public Health Agency asked us to wait to implement those exceptions, and that is why we have not taken that decision. However, we have commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to analyse, for example, flea market operations in order to determine whether there are additional exceptions to make so that the operations can be carried out in a safe manner.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-236	Madam President, I would like We are seeing an unprecedented decline in the European and Swedish economies this year. In response to this, the EU countries, and not least Sweden, have provided a great deal of stimulus. Unfortunately, less is being done to improve the basic conditions for economic growth; on the contrary, we have even seen deteriorations in, for example, the EU's internal market under the coronapndemin. This is serious, because it is particularly important that the free movement of goods and services works now that the economy is in a very need of recovery – and hopefully development. The government rightly regularly highlights the internal market as one of the real merits of EU membership and, among other things, justifies Sweden's relatively high membership fee with access to the internal market. Making it work better must be one of the most important EU issues for a Swedish government.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-238	Madam President, I would like It is certainly one of the top priorities, particularly in the recent period of the pandemic. The Swedish Government, and not least me as Minister of Trade, have been very active in making the internal market work. When it closed down as much as it did at the beginning of the pandemic, Sweden was one of the loudest voices to make the internal market work again. Now it's more functional, but we're not happy. We must constantly work for this. Sweden is perhaps one of the strongest voices to make the single market take the next step, not only in the pandemic, but also, for example, in making e-commerce work, as well as in digital services and the entire service sector. Sweden depends on this, and we are driving progress forward. I would like to say that the pandemic has awakened us in terms of the importance of the internal market and that we are now taking major and important steps forward to make it work better, not least in terms of digitalisation.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-242	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Last week, the Dalarna Student Union demanded that international exchange students be moved from outside Tjärna Ängar in Borlänge due to the extensive insecurity that prevails in the area. It has gone so far that students have completed their courses early and left Sweden because they did not feel safe. One thinks of Sweden as an island country and expects to take part of Swedish traditions and culture and to live in a good environment, has an exchange student commented in the media. How does the Minister of Education see that students turn their backs on Sweden because of the policy that is being pursued, which means that Sweden is no longer perceived as an island country?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-245	Madam President, I would like This question would actually be answered by Minister of Higher Education Matilda Ernkrans, and one can also question how much it really has to do with university politics. I'll be happy to answer anyway. Had Matilda Ernkrans been here, she would probably have said something like that Sweden is a country that is very attractive for students who come from abroad. We have many who want to come here, and we have many who want to study at our programmes. The fact that Sweden has a higher degree of openness on campus than many other countries – we have chosen to welcome people to campus under the coronapandemy to the extent possible when it comes to dealing with the spread of infection – also means that Sweden is an open and attractive country. We have not seen any problems in recruiting students abroad. It may be because Sweden is a good country to live in, that Sweden is a country to be proud of and that our colleges and campuses are something to be really proud of.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-248	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Hallberg. Now that the spread of infection is increasing again within the EU and the Member States are again introducing internal and regional closures and restrictions, it is essential that the borders between Member States remain open as far as possible. It is essential that the EU learns from March and April this year, when the borders were closed very quickly and both goods that were important for the handling of covid-19 and all other trade were prevented. The freedom of movement as a fundamental foundation in the EU was effectively impeded in the spring. The EU suffered criticism for passivity and too slow action, but now has good opportunities to act more proactively and to ensure effective fight against infection without this affecting the free movement and the internal market and, of course, without risking the spread of infection. In what way are the Government and the Swedish Government now acting in order not to make the same mistakes as last spring?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-252	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for a very urgent question! We should not repeat the mistake that took place last spring. We in Sweden, as I mentioned earlier, have consistently been in favour of openness in relation to borders. We are also leaning on the evidence-based evidence available from the European Disease Control Agency and from our own public health authority, which says that border closures are not an effective means of combating the spread of infection. The Commission has also said this. The Commission says that if borders are to be closed now, a common approach must be found to restrictions and to the level to be taken. On the Swedish side, we are pushing for there to be no border closures at all. We don't have a lockdown yet. However, we have new shutdowns which are worrying, although we do not have production units that are closing down. What we are doing now is trying to get the industry and production facilities to be open and to find solutions for this.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-256	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. We Christian Democrats have been fighting for a long time to change the law so that the Customs Administration can seize stolen goods on its way out of the country. At the Parliamentary Question Time in May, the Minister for the Interior stated that the government was working to give the Customs Agency increased powers to stop stolen goods. When will this become a reality? Among planned proposals in autumn 2020 there is only one proposal related to Tullverket. It says that it will be given increased powers for the Customs to decide on the detention of consignments. I understand that the Swedish Customs will have additional opportunities to stop mail, for example, which is something that I do not think theft leagues use in the first place. The mission should instead be about stopping stolen goods in cars or trucks on their way out of Sweden. Madam President, I would like I therefore wonder: When will the government have completed its work, and when will it come up with a bill regarding Tullverket's expanded mission to stop stolen goods? The Home Secretary already promised in February that the powers would come.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-260	Madam President, I would like Maybe faster than anyone can imagine.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-262	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Sweden has a long and proud history of a strong and competitive industry. While the current pandemic poses challenges for Swedish industry and exports, there is a huge opportunity for further development of the Swedish industry. At the same time, the world is in a climate crisis that is also binding. Swedish industry has a unique opportunity not only to contribute to the global transformation but also to lead in many cases to a strong transition. My question to the Government is: How does the Government view the change in the climate of industry, and what incentives, measures and steps can the government support in this issue?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for an important question! Swedish industry is important. It has been important, it is important and it will become even more important in the future. It doesn't belong to history. One of the most important roles that I believe we have is to solve together some of humanity's great challenges. Now during the pandemic, we have helped to ensure that Swedish employees in industry have remained at work through short-term work – unlike in the financial crisis, this has saved a few hundred thousand jobs. When we look forward, it is about how we strengthen our competitiveness at the same time as we change. Then the conversion becomes very central. We work very closely with the Swedish industry to show that this is not only possible but also a natural step that means that we become more efficient and cleaner. It also creates export opportunities for our country and thus also new, sustainable jobs and new, sustainable growth. Sweden will be the first fossil-free welfare country in the world. There the industry has a very important role, and I am very pleased that the industry wants to play that role.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-271	Madam President, I would like When my parents brought me to the BVC, they were recommended not to speak Finnish. You didn't know any better then, but God, I'm so glad they didn't listen to that advice--I'd be so much poorer today if I hadn't brought my second mother tongue with me. Recently, in the debate, we saw how this old ignorance was revived when the Christian Democrats' government proposed that mother tongue education be abolished on the grounds that quality is not up to date. I agree that the quality of native language education needs to be improved. Not least, we must ensure that our national minorities bring with them an adequate language with which to work and train in higher education as well.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-275	Madam President, I would like The usual thing is that you make a little bragging and talk about how much good you have done in different areas. When it comes to the native language, I am incredibly proud that we in Sweden have a right to mother tongue education. It is precisely for the reasons, Madam President, that Annika Hirvonen Falk highlights. Students are given the opportunity to develop their mother tongue, the language they speak at home, the language to speak with Grandma and Grandpa, Grandma and Grandpa. But students also have a greater opportunity to learn and develop in the Swedish language if they master the mother tongue they have at home. Swedish mother tongue teaching is well motivated. It plays an important role, and it plays a major role in Swedish schools. The government has absolutely no plans to reduce that importance. But, Madam President, we have problems. We have a great shortage of teachers, including in this area. The government is working hard to strengthen the availability of trained teachers in this area and in others. Increasing digitalisation gives us an opportunity to extend access for children to qualified teachers. But more needs to be done.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-280	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. In the repercussions of the current epidemic, many industries are struggling for their survival. In the past, we have mentioned, among other things, the cultural event industry, which has actually been directly banned from business or has had direct consequences due to political decisions. Another sector that I would like to put in the same basket is the travel industry, which I regard as part of the national and global infrastructure. 83% layoffs and 50% layoffs were the figures last week. In order to avoid the bankruptcies of all these entrepreneurs, I wonder whether the Minister for Economic Affairs is prepared, as well as the cultural and event industry, to direct support to the travel industry.
i-UPUy2Vn4euJw99bqHCLyjH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annicka Engblom, for the question! Since the pandemic began, the government, often in close dialogue with the business community, has developed a large number of programmes to support the Swedish business community, because we want to save viable companies but of course also Swedish jobs. This means that in over a dozen amending budgets we have launched aid programmes of various kinds, credits, guarantees and more of nearly 800 billion. For a country of our size, it is an enormous effort that the Swedish people together as taxpayers are now making. We have, of course, directed some of this support to the most difficult companies, and the travel industry and the travel companies have had difficulties. They have received short-term support to lay off their employees. In addition, we have now come forward with an extension of the employment aid that is so important for several of these companies. We help each other, even if it's tough times.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-287	Madam President, I would like Nearly 6 000 people have so far died in Sweden in the suites of covid-19. A large number of these have lived in retirement homes. Those who would be most protected were least protected – this because the government was unable to stop the spread of the disease. Compared to our Nordic neighbours, we are unique, and our death rates are among the world's highest. Now we're facing a second wave, and worry is growing. I would therefore like to ask Minister Damberg: how will our elderly be protected this time? Are they again standing at the edge of the eating testup or will they be offered the care they deserve and actually have a right to?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-289	Madam President, I would like One of the most painful effects of the coronapandemine is the deaths we have seen in elderly care and linked to home care in some parts of Sweden, not everywhere but in some counties that were hit very hard by the spread of infection at the beginning. We have done a huge job by supporting the municipalities financially so that they have the resources and muscles to make investments and skills develop staff so that you do not get the infection into the business. We have also built up warehouses and operations that provide support in protective equipment, which was a problem. We've expanded the sampling operations all over the country. We are much better equipped now than before, but the danger is not over. If we do not push back the spread of infection in society now, we risk getting the infection back into care for the elderly and home care. That is something that we share a responsibility to counteract.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-293	Madam President, I would like Equivalence is the most important challenge facing Swedish schools. All pupils should be given the opportunity to succeed in school based on their circumstances and needs, regardless of their background. We're not there yet. The level of education of parents is still the factor that largely determines whether students will succeed in school or not, and we Social Democrats can never accept that. That is why it is so good that the government's budget for the equivalence of schools increases to 6.2 billion – money that can be used, for example, to hire more special educators. Although we are now pleased to see that the results of knowledge are increasing in Swedish schools, equality must follow. My question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström is therefore what further reforms are needed to ensure that Sweden once again has the most high-performance and equal school system in the world, because that is where we are going again.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-296	Madam President, I would like That's where we've actually been, and of course we're going back there. Like Pia Nilsson, I am very pleased that in the budget we have managed to continue to extend the equivalence grant, which is now at 6.2 billion. We invest in teacher salaries, not least in vulnerable areas, and we invest in homework and holiday school in these coronatimes. I am also very pleased that we in Sweden have managed to keep our schools open to such an extent during the terrible pandemic. The Pandemine has hit everyone in our country hard. But thanks to our open schools, we have managed to ensure that many children and students have both grown up safely and gained knowledge. In the future, however, we must be better at counteracting the school segregation that leads to inequality. The Parliament will soon receive a number of proposals on combating the causes of school segregation. Then it'll be up to you to prove it. Thank you for the question, Pia Nilsson, and thank you for your future cooperation, dear Swedish Parliament!
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-300	Madam President, I would like The turnover of the travel industry has decreased by 90 per cent. 3,500 jobs have been lost, and many are short-term. They're worried, and they're on their knees. In 2019 there were 10,000 million international trips. But now it's a dying travel industry, and it really looks like it's getting worse. Without tourism, many countries, poor countries, can be seen to be weakened. This should be a priority. A pandemic without support has bankrupted many travel companies, and a great many have lost their jobs. The Minister for Industry just said you want to save business and jobs. But the travel industry is struggling to survive. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore why the government does not give a greater share to the travel industry? Why don't you take this fight seriously? Or do you have a problem with the travel industry?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-304	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is undoubtedly a difficult time. It's for the travel business. It is, in fact, for every activity in our country that people have to do with each other. And that is because we are in the midst of a global pandemic, which, unfortunately, at the beginning of autumn, is about to increase quite sharply again. This means that people will travel less. It is against this background that we have announced that we will extend some of the support that Alexandra Anstrell spoke of. The conversion aid is designed precisely to mitigate the effects. However, it is a little illogical, Madam President, when the Moderates, when we present our budget, say that we are wasting money, that it is a far too large budget and far too much money, and now stand in Parliament's pulpit and say that it is done far too little. What's it gonna be? Is it too much or is it too little? I believe that we are helping each other in a very difficult situation, and we will continue to do so, regardless of the industry.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-308	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. In the newspapers we can read about Somali citizen Abdulhakim who for years focused on robbing and cheating Swedish pensioners, about a Syrian 36-year-old citizen who abducted and subjected a 9-year-old girl in Timrå to sexual abuse and about Adan, also Somali citizen, who sexually molested underage boys in Upplands Väsby on various occasions. None of these have been sentenced to expulsion. For six years this government has been in power. The fact that foreign citizens are not expelled to a sufficient extent when they commit crimes is not news. You've had six years to change the way things look. The fact that an investigation has been set up is good but far too late. This should have been done years ago. Only 20% of convicted foreign rapists are expelled. Even when it comes to convicted foreign murderers, it cannot be assumed that they are expelled.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-312	Madam President, I would like Swedish legislation is clear: When it comes to serious crimes, you can be sentenced to expulsion. Unfortunately, not all expulsions can be carried out because Sweden is bound by international conventions or there are enforcement obstacles. It is not good but nothing that Sweden alone can influence. However, we are working hard to persuade countries that can accept to do so in the case of expulsions. It is true that the government has set up an investigation. The ambition is to tighten up the legislation, which will allow us to expel more people who commit crimes in our country. The government is now waiting for the results of the investigation.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-315	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. There is an investigation that has suggested that there should be compulsory preschool from the age of three. Many parents of young children, however, put coffee in their throats this week when they read in the newspaper that eleven Social Democratic MPs, including two members of the party board, require preschool to be mandatory from the age of two. Many people wonder what this is, and there have been many comments in various places. All of us who have the privilege of having children know that children are different. Some children do not fit into large preschool groups at all, and especially the weak children have problems. Is this something that the Minister of Education can write off, or is there really an idea of making it compulsory and forcing all two-year-olds to attend preschool?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-320	Madam President, I would like Swedish preschool is fantastic. Initially, it was built to ensure that both mother and father could work, but nowadays it's primarily about giving children a safe upbringing and a good start to lifelong learning. But imagine that every time the Christian Democrats bring up preschool it is about that it does not work and that it should not be for everyone! I think Swedish preschool should be for everyone. I want to see a public preschool where you're entitled to preschool from the age of two, just like we do today. I would also like to see how we can ensure that those groups that today do not take advantage of preschool are given more opportunity to do so. However, compulsory preschools are not on the government's agenda, and that is not what the government is working on.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-325	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. This issue has been discussed in the past, and it has been raised earlier during Question Time. The pandemic we have been living with for a long time is permeated in my world by a word: inconsistency. We allow large collections in shopping centres and shops, but we can certainly not allow more than 50 people in the audience in large arenas such as Tele 2, Friends or Skellefteå Kraft. However, they will fix this without assistance. The government has raised 11⁄2 billion to make sure that all clubs will manage their finances, but we see a popular movement and an ice hockey industry in free fall.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-327	Madam President, I would like Yes, the situation is serious. We are in the midst of a global pandemic. It is important to remember that. I think that, deep down, we all wish the pandemic were over. It torments people and takes human lives. It also prevents us from living our lives in the way we want, for example, to visit a hockey game, preferably where their own team wins. Unfortunately, we are not there, but we are still in an alarming situation where the infection is also increasing. We do our utmost, both through the laws we have and, when they do not fit, by changing them and making them more flexible, in a way that can be combined with preventing the infection. We are also going in with large resources of taxpayers' money to mitigate the effects, but I do not think anyone here believes that we will be able to remove all the effects. Unfortunately, that is not possible, however much we would like it to be.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-329	Madam President, I would like Last week, the Government referred the report of the Migration Committee. The consultation bodies include organisations such as the Asylum Court Centre, Amnesty International, the Refugee Groups' Council and the League of Ensamkommande. More than a dozen of those invited to think are organisations that have openly driven an agenda for a more generous migration policy. Another body appointed by the government in the referral procedure is SMR, i.e. the Swedish Muslim Council. The SMR has previously received strong criticism for association with the Muslim Brotherhood, Islamists who, among other things, advocate special legislation according to Sharia. This makes me a little curious. What influence does the government believe that this type of organisation should have over Swedish foreigner legislation?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-333	Madam President, I would like Anyone can respond to referrals from the government. I am absolutely sure that Members of Parliament do not in any way wish to restrict the possibility of receiving views from different organisations with different perspectives before decisions are taken. The proposal we are now sending out for consultation has very important elements. We move on to a temporary residence permit as the general rule. We propose that permanent residence permits can only be granted after three years and only if certain requirements, such as supply requirements and language requirements, are met. Supply requirements shall also apply in the case of family migration. There are major changes in Swedish migration policy. We are also making changes for the unaccompanied refugee children who are here and have been affected in the midst of a pandemic so that they can stay in Sweden a little easier if they get a job. It is reasonable, then, that organisations that have knowledge of their reality also have the opportunity to express themselves.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-337	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Trade Anna Hallberg, and now we are going to talk about exports again. Sweden is a highly export-dependent country. No less than 1.4 million Swedes have a job to go to thanks to our foreign trade. However, the current pandemic and, unfortunately, the protectionist currents in the EU and the world that we have heard of earlier today have reduced exports. Unfortunately, we also see an increasing number of notifications in several industries. In my neighbouring municipality of Fagersta, for example, the industry is relatively severely affected. Now we have to restart the economy and Sweden and make sure to increase exports again. We must also do as the Secretary-General of the OECD said last week: building back better, not just doing as before, but getting even better. How can Swedish exports contribute to our economic recovery and make the world better?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-341	Madam President, I would like Now we have a great opportunity – a window. Sweden will work its way out of the crisis and build something new. With the industry we have and the sustainability focus in our business community, we have great opportunities to come out with our products and services on the international market and attract investments. Exports and investments are crucial for creating jobs and welfare and securing welfare throughout the country. We are now making an extra effort on the part of the government. We set aside extra funds for investment promotion. We also have major investments in Vinnova and Rise, because we need to work more broadly to attract investments, focusing on academia and the business community in collaboration. I see a great opportunity that Swedish industry and Swedish sustainable solutions will be winners next year, with the efforts that the government is now making in the budget that we have presented.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-343	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. The Coast Guard is doing a fantastic job here in Sweden as well as on Frontex missions. When the Coast Guard goes on Frontex missions, this means that fewer coastal guards remain in Sweden, and it may be that some unit becomes stationary. The Coast Guard has just received new law enforcement information. They have wanted more money to be able to solve the mission with new tasks and staff both within Frontex and at home, but in the government bill there is no additional resources. How does Minister Damberg think the Coast Guard should do its job without any extra money?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-346	Madam President, I would like Coast Guards today have a stable economy. This has not always been the case. I have made several visits to the Coast Guard, and they really appreciate their international missions because they feel that they are making a big difference, for example, in maintaining the EU's external border. They also deal with the issue of staff development in a very advanced way in the international missions. It is a way to both attract and maintain staff and become even better on their mission in Sweden. I have not heard any signals from the Coast Guard that they would like to refrain from their international missions at this time. I will follow the role of the Coast Guard in the future. We have just presented a new proposal linked to civil defence, in which the Coast Guard receives additional powers but also important roles, not least in order to guarantee Swedish border in the event of war or increased preparedness.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-349	Madam President, I would like No one knows how many people are staying illegally in Sweden. Criminals use fictional identities and false addresses to usurp contributions and commit various crimes. The problems linked to the lack of control over population records have become huge, and a national census is needed to curb this. Pilot projects within the Swedish Tax Agency, to which Minister Damberg referred, are not enough. The authorities need to know how many and who are in the country. Yet the government and the cooperation parties reject a national census. Why?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-351	Madam President, I would like It is true that the Government is making great efforts to give the Swedish Tax Agency more resources to work on these issues and contribute to pilot projects. They work hard to get the coordination numbers in order, which are abused in society. Much is therefore being done in this area to clarify these issues. The point is that I have read some of the Moderates' proposals on this issue, and I still have not understood how the Moderates' proposals would in any way resolve the issues raised by the questioner. In what way would this proposal solve the question of knowing exactly who lives in Sweden? I have not seen such proposals from the Moderates, but I look forward to further clarity later. We are working hard on this issue, and we will do it together with several authorities, but also with our municipalities, which have huge problems with, for example, civil record-keeping crimes. There is new legislation in this area that the government has introduced.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-355	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. The minister said that sexual violence against children is increasing. It also goes down in the ages and occurs both physically, with the children known perpetrators, and online, where it is increasing catastrophicly. There is almost no limit to what perpetrators can do to get in touch with children. It's done through chats, games and Snapchat – there's so much. There are many organisations working against this together with the police. During the Metoo movement Save the Children received SEK 1 million from the Swedish National Agency for Education to produce material to be used in school. The material was developed by students, researchers and educators to be as good as possible. It needs to come to students, parents and educators. Unfortunately, this material did not come forward, and one might ask why. Is it too expensive, or what could be the trouble? My question to the Minister for Education is: Why does the material not come forward? You can get free digital, and you can get a teacher's guide. Yet it does not come out, and I think it needs to come out.
i-KtCeFkyGTGyUxmnfy27N5L	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström, for the question. Sexual violence against children should not occur, not in school or anywhere else. Here are important tasks for student health. There is also an important curriculum assignment for the school to make sure, through knowledge of source criticism, how to behave online, nlabel and other things, that children can avoid getting into situations where they are exposed and that they also get knowledge of how abuse and things that have happened incorrectly should be reported. It is quite right that Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström says that we commissioned several different organisations to develop different initiatives in connection with the metoo. Now I stand in the embarrassing position that I cannot answer Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström's question directly. Of course, I should not reply – I know that Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström has no right to reply – but I say as it is: I will return to Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström, either by sending a written question to me or by other means. Thank you for asking, and I'm sorry for the poor answer!
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-363	Madam President, I would like I am concerned about the development of the social pillar and the more or less large steps taken by the EU in areas for which Sweden has a well-functioning model. Discussions are taking place on common minimum wages, where I think it is important that we jointly protect the Swedish model. Most recently, this concerns transparency in wage setting. Here too, Sweden has come a long way. For the Swedish part, there is a risk that the parties' autonomy and self-determination will be eliminated by EU legislation. Wage formation and employers' obligations to pay mapping should be regulated at national level, not by EU directives. My question for this reason is: Will the Swedish Government stand up for the Swedish model and actively work against directives from the EU that put it out of play?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-366	Madam President, I would like The simple answer to the question is that this Swedish government will always act to defend the Swedish model in an EU context. I note that the Moderates are always concerned about any discussion of additional social rights, whether in Sweden or in Europe.
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-368	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Damberg my question. We are now seeing an increase in the pandemic, of which the cultural and event sector and the sports sector are very aware. They have worked for a long time with a full focus on the safety of infectious diseases. These sectors are heavily bleeding economically; they have in principle been banned from business. They are forced to take major economic social responsibility to prevent the spread of the pandemic, while shopping centres and public transport are crowded with people. The government's meekness risks destroying the sector's ecosystems for many years to come. Sport in Sweden has significant problems with the fact that the exemption from the entry ban does not include elite athletes. In practice, at least 20 EU Member States have derogations. It has a lot of repercussions for Sweden, not least in terms of the possibility of organising international events in the future. When will the exemption in Sweden be almost the last EU country for elite athletes regarding the entry ban?
i-6e2ec5faf8e46cf7-372	Madam President, I would like It is not the case that the government is slow to act when it comes to culture and sport. We are acting on recommendations from the Public Health Agency, which does not want us to open up to activities at this particular time. We have a proposal which I hope we can implement shortly. We have also given great support to the sectors to help them in the difficult situation that this entails. With regard to the entry ban, Sweden is acting strongly within the EU in order to have clear common rules on the EU's external border. It's something very important. If it does not work, Sweden is prepared to act on its own to clarify the regulatory framework, but we can come back to that at a later date.
