i-925becd649952333-2	Mr President, I would like to Every five years, the Riksdag makes a long-term five-year decision on Sweden's defence policy. The basis for this is the security policy that we are laying down, and that is the first issue we are debating today. Then this House will debate the direction of defence policy, and tomorrow this House will decide by vote. This work has been preceded by several years of work in the Defence Committee appointed by the Government and Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, where all eight parties have been involved and where a lot of time has been spent analysing the surrounding world and development and – to some extent – travelling around the world to meet military and defence forces as well as experts and academics. Of course, we have also met a large number of all these here at home in Sweden. It is a thorough work that the Defence Committee has done. We have not agreed on everything, but we have been able to agree on a great deal. Above all, we have been able to agree on how, in any case in the broad sense, we view developments in the world – that it has become more uncertain over the last five years, that the risk of conflict has increased, that democracy is shrinking and that people are threatened not only by military conflicts but also by civil disasters, by cyber attacks and by the fact that all the advanced technologies in our modern society may sometimes stop working. All these threats must be taken into account in the overall threat picture, because the threat picture is not just military. It is for this that Sweden needs a security policy – a broad security policy, Mr President. Sweden needs a security policy that is also long-term, stable and predictable. This is important for Sweden's security given the geographical location we have and the part of Europe that we find ourselves in: on the edge of the Baltic Sea, where much of the military tension in our part of the world exists. This is why it is usually called that Sweden's security policy line has been established for a very long time. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. Sweden will contribute to long-term stability and security in our part of Europe. That is how it is usually called when it comes to the security policy line that Sweden has. As we move forward with a new defence decision, all eight parties agree that we cannot rule out a military attack on Sweden. All eight parties agree that defence appropriations need to be increased; then there are differences in how much and perhaps above all in how fast. The government parties – the Social Democrats and the Green Party – have in January been able to agree with the Centre Party and the Liberals on how to proceed with funding for the next five years. Mr President, I would like to Normally, if we even make changes in security policy, we will do so after careful consideration and in a broad consensus. But just over a week ago, the whole sea suddenly began to storm. At that time, the Centre Party and the Liberals received a majority in the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. What, then, was the majority, Mr President? Kerstin Lundgren said that a NATO option means that you should act so that you have an opportunity to apply for membership or become a member of NATO. We will do like Finland, where there is total political agreement, and we hope that we can have it in Sweden too," said Kerstin Lundgren. She stressed, however, that it was not Parliament that established the security policy line, but the government. Hans Wallmark said that a NATO option is an important signal to the outside world that NATO membership is in Sweden's security policy toolbox. The members of the committee still kept away from saying anything other than that it is the government that establishes the security policy line. If it were the case that we wanted a NATO option, we could think about what it would be for. Are we going to join NATO or not? The four bourgeois parties now tend to claim that they want to join NATO. But the fifth party – the Swedish Democrats – who joined this NATO option usually claims that Sweden should not join NATO. Roger Richthoff said that the Swedish Democrats clearly say no and that they have not changed their mind – Sweden should not join NATO. We want to enter into a defence alliance with Finland, was the Swedish Democrats' and Roger Richthoff's statement. On top of all of this, Mikael Oscarsson of the Christian Democrats explained that this was an important step to raise defence spending to 2 percent. But still, no one said that it is anyone other than the government that establishes the security policy line. Then, Mr President, the Moderate Leader Ulf Kristersson appeared on his Facebook and wrote confidently: 中 Suddenly, according to Ulf Kristersson, there was the parliament's security policy line and the government's security policy line. Everyone will have to think about how well this serves Sweden's long-term security. My view is that the security policy line is set by the government and that one country cannot have two security policies; it can only have one, and that is the government. This majority, which is therefore in favour of the so-called NATO option, makes it clear for various reasons, Mr President. It is not uncommon in politics that we sometimes land on the same point, even though we have taken completely different paths there and have completely different purposes for it. This can be done in many cases, in municipal politics and even here in Parliament. But security policy is a bit too important for you to accidentally land on one and the same point and then come up with something that you seem to agree on, even though you really are not and certainly do not have the same goal. I think that all bourgeois Members and Swedish democratic Members should think from now until tomorrow's vote if you really are to support the majority proposal that exists with regard to the NATO option from the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the committee's entire proposal in the report, except for the very point of decision on the NATO option. In this respect, I would like to express my support for the reservations expressed by the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party.
i-925becd649952333-20	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a constitutional monarchy and a parliamentary democracy. Ultimately, the protection of the kingdom is about protecting human rights and freedoms, freedom of opinion and our way of being like Swedes. That is why we are safeguarding Sweden's independence and our country's defence. Parliamentary democracy means a division between the elected assembly and the exercising power. The government governs the kingdom and establishes the foreign policy line. But it is foolish for a wise government not to listen to the Riksdag and what a clear majority says. In the form of government, one of the Swedish constitutions, it is stated in Section 4 of the Swedish Parliament that is the main representative of the people, and in Section 6 that the government governs the kingdom and is accountable to the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to There is reason to recall this basis for political science in the run-up to the security debate that is now to be held, in order to anticipate what might be said about a so-called NATO option. If the Riksdag agrees with the committee's proposal, it is something that the government must relate to. How it does that will be a crucial question. The fact that there are different views on security policy cooperation and ultimately a Swedish NATO membership is no secret. Me and the Moderates have the greatest respect for that. For this reason, I am also in favour of the four-party reservation, reservation 10, which exists and in which the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals express themselves on the very value of Swedish NATO membership. It is quite different from the majority that has gathered behind the so-called NATO option, ultimately through a motion for a resolution by the Center Party. It is not, however, a new thought and certainly not a hog shot. The government itself raises the issue in its proposal, and as a member of the Defence Committee, I can confirm that it has been up for discussion during the more than two years of deliberations that preceded the drafting of the orientation decision that is currently being debated and on which decisions are to be taken. As highlighted, the relationship between Sweden and Finland is special. A rapprochement has taken place between the countries in recent years and enjoys broad participation here in Parliament. We are even talking about cooperation beyond peace terms. The defence committee and now also the government also indicate that an armed conflict in the immediate area will inevitably affect and drag with the countries around the Baltic Sea. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out or, as the report states, the committee shares the government's view that the security situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and in Europe has deteriorated over time. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood. Sweden and our neighbourhood are part of a military geographic whole. In this context, it is wise for Sweden to make the same public mark as Finland, that membership is part of the safety policy toolbox. It is a decision we make ourselves, independent and independent. In Finland, such an option has existed since 1995. In our eastern neighbour there is still a majority against the idea of NATO membership, in its parliament, in its present government and with the people. Yet this mark has existed for 25 years and will certainly do so for the foreseeable future. It is therefore natural that Sweden, independently and in no way as demands or requests from other countries, marks the same type of preparedness. This would be through the kind of decision that a majority in the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has now supported. Given the size here in Parliament, with the exception of two so-called savages among the members, it gives 204 members for a NATO option and 143 members against. It is not exactly a close or narrow parliamentary majority – quite the contrary, Mr President! Mr President, I would like to Sweden deepens and intensifys its international cooperation. That's good. Safety is built together with others. In view of the defence decision that is now to be made, the government itself has stated as a motive for establishing and locating new units that it facilitates help and support from the west. We are talking in Sweden that in the event of an armed conflict we should stop and stop an enemy, and fight pending. Waiting for what? Of course, help and support from others. That is why we are deepening cooperation. This is why the Swedish Parliament has supported so-called host country support. And that is why Sweden declares our willingness to support and assist others in the event of crisis and war, just as we assume that others can support and assist us in the event of crisis and war. Mr President, I would like to However, with the present system, we can never know. We can hope, believe, wish and wish. But we can never know. Only membership of NATO can give us binding security guarantees and, important enough, a genuine common defence planning. It is for this reason that we are calling for a Swedish NATO membership that represents a policy of increased security and helps to safeguard peace in the Baltic Sea region in contrast to a line of uncertainty and uncertainty. The government itself notes in its proposal: a tt Sweden can provide and receive military and civilian support is crucial to create a real opportunity to act together and coordinated in the event of a crisis or war. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, let me say this from the Parliament's speaker's chair, commend Björn von Sydow and thank him. As Chairman of the Defence Committee, he has contributed with great integrity and solid knowledge to the production of two reports that form the solid basis for our future defence decision and the direction that will apply in the coming years. Over the years, the preparation and conclusions of government representatives have been almost undermined. The final year, 2020, has lost unnecessarily much time in conversational activities under Peter Hultqvist's leadership. But here we are, finally. I call for the Moderates' reservation 1 on the overall security policy assessments and for the rejection of reservation 11 by the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party on a NATO option.
i-925becd649952333-35	Mr President, I would like to Given the media debate and media reporting that has been, as well as statements by Hans Wallmark, and by Ulf Kristersson, I must of course take the opportunity to ask Hans Wallmark: Is there a parliamentary security policy line? Is it Hans Wallmark's words or Ulf Kristersson's words that apply?
i-925becd649952333-36	Mr President, I would like to I thought I was very clear. It is, of course, the case that a wise government has to relate to what a parliamentary majority speaks about. I would therefore like to put the question back to Kenneth G. Forslund: if a parliament representing 204 Members expresses something – a clear majority, that is – how does a government relate to it?
i-925becd649952333-38	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark is clear, but what should we think about Ulf Kristersson's words on his own Facebook page, where he writes that there is a parliamentary security policy line. Don't those words apply? Mr Wallmark points to 204 Members. There are 204 members from five different parties with at least three different approaches to the relationship with NATO and what a NATO option should mean. Is this a sound and responsible basis for conducting this policy? And how does Hans Wallmark mean that a government should be able to interpret a decision in parliament? It's not just any decision. It is not about which direction we should drive in the streets or how high the social welfare standard should be or something like that, where we can certainly have different opinions and different objectives with what we decide on. The second may be such important issues, but this is serious in another way. There are five parties with at least three different interpretations. How do you figure this out, Hans Wallmark?
i-925becd649952333-42	Mr President, I would like to This is not the first time the issue of a NATO option has been debated and decided in the Swedish Parliament. The Social Democrats have done so together with the Left Party, the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats. Does Kenneth G. Forslund mean that they have had the same political basis for this rejection? Has there been a single bloc made up of the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats? I would like to say that there are at least three lines, perhaps four, represented in that block. Therefore, I think that one should probably relate to the parliamentary majorities that arise. If you then have, Mr President, a decision supported by 204 Members against 143, then there is reason for a wise government to react to that. Furthermore, Mr President, I hope that we will see other social democrats and environmentalists who are also arguing on the substance. The interesting thing about both Kenneth G. Forslund's speech and the change of line we now have is that the very idea of a NATO option is not affected at all. I find that boring. I believe that a NATO option, properly managed, would be an opportunity and not a problem for the Socialist Party.
i-925becd649952333-46	Mr President, I would like to It is important to contribute to relaxation in the military strategic area where Sweden is located. Therefore, it is important not to upset the balance of our neighbourhood. On the other hand, there is reason to ensure that they are able to work preventively to reduce the risk of military aggression against Swedish territory aimed at adversely affecting the country's national freedom or the Swedish people's right to self-determination. For many years, we Swedish democrats have been advocating that Sweden enter into a defensive defence alliance with Finland. Sweden and Finland face the same security policy situation in view of the countries' common geographical situation. A defence alliance with Finland would therefore, according to our analysis, be a very good option for creating security in our part of the world. In recent years, cooperation with Finland has intensified, and only on 8 September this year, Parliament agreed to introduce a new law on operational military support between Sweden and Finland. The purpose of the law is to strengthen the national defences of the countries and their ability to act together militarily. The decision means, among other things, that the Government is given the right to take certain decisions to grant or receive military support within the framework of the cooperation. The conditions for Finnish military forces to provide Sweden with military support are also improved by certain legislative changes. When Krister Bringéus in 2016 investigated Sweden's international cooperation in the field of defence and security, it emerged in talks with Finnish representatives that the idea of a Swedish-Finnish Defence Association was expressed from a Finnish perspective, and at the end of last month the news reached us that several leading Finnish politicians are now opening the door to a defence alliance with Sweden. Sweden and Finland have strong cultural and political ties and a long common history. A defence alliance would increase the threshold effect and create new strategic depths, which would strengthen the defence capabilities of the countries. Mr President, I would like to Since the committee's decision in the report we are discussing today in this House, the debate has gone hot. The issue of a Swedish NATO option is not in itself the least controversial. It does not change Sweden's security policy line. This one's fixed. The NATO option does not mean membership of NATO, as the government has tried to assert more or less in debates. However, the NATO option means that we must meet the demands made by NATO on a potential Member State. This in itself means that we prevent some parties from using the Swedish defence as a budget regulator. For a NATO option to be credible, the country's defence needs to meet the size and standard required for a membership application to be granted. Such an option can thus constitute an important argument for an increased rearmament of the Swedish defence and further hamper any future disarmament. The NATO option also means that we are now harmonising Sweden's and Finland's position on freedom of action on the NATO issue, which means a further rapprochement and signals a willingness to deepen cooperation that will strengthen the possibility of concluding a defence alliance in the long term. In order to facilitate the formation of a defence alliance, it is important that our countries formulate an equivalent approach to a NATO option. We therefore believe that Sweden, like Finland, should make a clear NATO option. This option means, as in Finland, that the foundations of Sweden's foreign, security and defence policy include a national scope and choices. This includes an opportunity to ally militarily and apply for membership of NATO. However, we would like to emphasise strongly that as long as Finland is outside NATO, Sweden should also do so. Furthermore, there is no question of membership of NATO with less than clear support in a referendum. It is a reasonable balance that Finland also does. The fact that the government, as the Minister of Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs did in a debate article in the Expressen last Thursday, claims that harmonisation with Finland's security policy would constitute an obstacle to cooperation is an absurd analysis that is completely unfounded. Similar systems and similar conditions to be able to make safety policy decisions in harmony with Finland strengthen both countries' room for manoeuvre and security in a potentially changed situation. A Swedish NATO option helps to strengthen, not weaken, Finland's option. All in all, this makes us raise the thresholds for an attacker. At the same time, Sweden will continue the extensive NATO cooperation based on a partnership, and we will continue to participate in training and training activities on our own premises. Mr President, I would like to It is worth repeating: our decision to support the proposal for a NATO option does not mean that we have changed our mind on the issue of Swedish membership of NATO. This is also clear in the report, where we have rejected by a majority the motions calling for Swedish membership. But it is not only with Finland that we want to deepen defence and security cooperation. In view of the deteriorating security policy situation in our part of the world, we also want to continue to deepen our cooperation with other Nordic countries within the Nordic Defence Cooperation Nordefco. There are opportunities to continue to deepen cooperation regardless of whether Sweden and Finland form a defence alliance and Norway, Denmark and Iceland are part of another defence alliance. The 2025 vision for Northefco cooperation states that states will improve their defence capabilities and cooperation in peace, crisis and conflict. The objectives to be achieved by 2025 include minimising restrictions on military mobility within and between the Nordic countries, creating the conditions for an increased exchange of situational information in peace, crisis and conflict, and strengthening Nordefco as a platform for crisis consultations between the national defence ministries. We welcome this and, as the committee says, such enhanced cooperation, in addition to having a security policy value, contributes to more efficient use of resources and increased operational capacity. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only support reservations 6 and 13.
i-925becd649952333-65	Mr President, I would like to The NATO option supported by the Swedish Democrats a week or so ago, which was a surprise to some, is not something that Finland has asked for in some of the contacts we have had with them. Sweden and Finland are partner countries to NATO, also at the highest level. Our countries are highly regarded as NATO adapted and hailed by NATO, and NATO regularly comes to Sweden and Finland and studies how we work. They also say that we are more NATO-adapted in our activities than many of NATO Member States. What is it that the NATO option would solve for problems, Björn Söder, and does it weigh up all the questions that this winginess creates in our surrounding world?
i-925becd649952333-67	Mr President, I would like to The question marks created by the wing, as Kenneth G. Forslund says, are largely created by himself, his party and the government, who are beginning to speculate on what this will lead to. In short, that is exactly what the report on NATO option says. This means that there is freedom of trade. Making our security policy line or attitude more similar to that of Finland means that we have the possibility to be part of the Defence Federation more easily in the future, if we have an equal view of it. This creates an opportunity in the future to make decisions based on the conditions that will prevail in the future. This gives an increased playing space, and it also gives an important signal that we have that possibility. Furthermore, the NATO option means that we must meet the requirements that membership would require. This means that our defence capabilities are forced to be equipped and that, as both Kenneth G. Forslund's own government and former Social Democratic governments, but also bourgeois governments have done, it is not possible to use the Swedish Armed Forces as a budget regulator. It has been milked from money to finance various reforms, but it is over now. In order to become members, we must meet a certain minimum level, and we see this as very positive. It creates greater room for manoeuvre, and this makes our security policy more like Finland.
i-925becd649952333-70	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Björn Söder, for your answer. I do not quite agree with that, of course. I do not think that the NATO option creates new opportunities for us who have not existed before. The most interesting thing in Björn Söder's argumentation is that it means that we have to start meeting the various membership requirements, for example 2 per cent in terms of defence grants measured in proportion of bnp. Another requirement for membership, Björn Söder, is that there should be a popular anchoring. Should Sweden begin to meet that requirement too? Is Björn Söder going to start campaigning out in Sweden for Sweden to possibly join NATO? I find it a little difficult to see that development before me, given that the Swedish Democrats tend to think that Sweden should not join NATO. Roger Richthoff said last week that this view is solid. But how long is that view, Björn Söder? You are a party that has changed its mind on all issues except migration policy. To the extent that you have changed your mind there, it is, in that case, from a tough to an even tougher migration policy, but otherwise the list of policy areas in which you have reversed and changed your mind is a long one. When will you turn to NATO and advocate NATO membership as well?
i-925becd649952333-73	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps one should be a little careful to blame us for changing politics. I think that the Social Democrats are a very good example of a race-turning party that is doing everything to retain power, because that is the most important thing in the world of Social Democrats. Then you are prepared to change politics from one day to another. Just as Kenneth G. Forslund says, conditions are created for us to reach the 2% target, and we must be at that level because membership would require it. We see this as an incredibly positive effect. I thought I was clear in my speech, Mr President, that we stand by our view of Swedish membership. It creates flexibility for the future. As stated in the announcement, it is a firm call to the government to deliver so that there are no practical obstacles. This means that if the Swedish people would one day say yes to join, depending on what the international situation looks like, there are opportunities to join. If there is a strong popular opinion in that situation, and if the result of joining NATO is that we can save our country and our freedom, we are prepared to re-evaluate our position. But we demand that there should be a popular anchor. I think there might be if there were to be a deterioration in the future.
i-925becd649952333-76	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's security policy aims to guarantee its independence and independence. In 2004, the defence decision was taken on the basis of the assessment that the security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region was characterised by calm, stability and cooperation. Russia had developed good cooperation relations with the EU and NATO, while Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland had become members of both the EU and NATO. The tension had decreased dramatically in our neighbourhood. The defense decision five years later had to be postponed after Russia's war with Georgia, and before the next defense decision, the Putin regime carried out the illegal annexation of Crimea and the war in eastern Ukraine. This is still going on, and to it has been added the war in Syria. Democracy has been backsliding since 2005, as well as respect for human rights and freedoms. Geopolitics have come back, and we can see a shift of political, economic and military power towards Asia and, in particular, China. The influence of the United States is challenged and questioned. Standards, cooperation, institutions and values that have shaped our part of the world after the Second World War and are based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law are being undermined. The driving force behind this development is Russia and China. Russia systematically violates and challenges the European Security Order and its key principles. China shows a similar attitude in the South China Sea. This has been facilitated by the current administration in the United States, and we hope that the new one will change it. International law is the basis for the rule-based world order that we follow. The UN is a cornerstone of our security policy as well as the European Convention. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's membership of the EU is a foundation for our prosperity but also for our security. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. No European state alone can meet all the serious and complex challenges of today's security policy or have an impact as a global player. It requires strengthening the EU's capacity to respond and act as a global foreign and security policy actor. Sweden has a joint security policy. We have expressed a broad consensus on a unilateral declaration of solidarity. We do not remain passive if a disaster or attack is taking place against any other EU country or any Nordic country. We expect them to act accordingly. Added to that is the Nordic Declaration of Solidarity. Nordic cooperation complements existing cooperation within the EU and NATO. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has increased its ability to provide and receive assistance through the host country agreement. We have strengthened our Nordic cooperation through Nordefco, and we are now working very closely with Finland, which includes operational planning, also in order to be able to face crisis and war. The Center Party wants this capacity to be developed to include EU and NATO countries. There is no doubt that Russia's action is the greatest threat to the security of our region. An attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out, and a conflict or an attack on someone will be an attack on all of us. The fact that we are now deepening cooperation between Sweden and Finland shows that it is not enough to practice together; it also requires the ability to plan and manage operations. This insight is also behind the government's ambition for national operational planning together with Denmark, Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States and NATO. The Center Party sees it as natural to seek membership of the only organisation capable of carrying out complex operations, NATO, on the basis of that understanding. We decide when and how, but we would like to see us start and land this process together with Finland, so that the entire Nordic region can collaborate within the same structure. This would increase predictability and thus raise the thresholds for conflict. For us, like our Baltic friends, this would be conflict retention and strengthening our common security. Mr President, I would like to We are seeking broad political consensus. For the Center Party, it is clear that a referendum on our security policy cannot be held. I request the approval of reservation 10. Mr President, I would like to The Finnish report on foreign and security policy in 2020 makes it clear that the increased activity and presence of NATO and the US in the Baltic countries and Poland will increase the stability of the Baltic Sea region. It is also clear that Russia's power policy has contributed to increased tensions, that the region's military strategic importance has increased and that weapons systems of increasingly advanced technical capabilities are placed in the immediate vicinity of Finland. Added to this is China's increased interest in the region, including the Arctic. According to the report, Russia's objective is a European security structure based on spheres of interest. It is in our common interest to vigorously counteract such developments on our continent and in our region. Mr President, I would like to Our ever closer cooperation in security policy with Finland, as the Swedish EU membership once did, challenges the Swedish security policy line. The line is solid in that Sweden is not in fact part of any military alliance, only a political alliance with solidarity obligations. However, we are pursuing a joint security policy with ever closer operational cooperation not only with Finland. We are developing cooperation within the EU as a complement to NATO's strategic capability. Our unique cooperation with Finland affects the Swedish freedom of action itself. One result of the previous defence decision was the investigation we then agreed on about Sweden's defence and security cooperation. The government then rested as otherwise its security policy line on the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. The investigation Security in a new era chose the government to put aside without further action. We regret this, for it should have – like the previous investigation by Bertelman – been the subject of a broader political discussion. The Center Party has asked whether the government has considered itself to have broad parliamentary support for its security policy line based on the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. The government must have judged it enough. In other ways, the Center Party cannot interpret the fact that the government once again chose to stand alone behind the security policy part of the total defence bill. The government claims that the security policy line is solid and that the military alliance freedom still serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. But surely the government should also see that something has changed and that the old line does not serve our, our Nordic neighbours' or EU states' safety well? Today, our security is based on a host country agreement with NATO, a very close cooperation and an enhanced partnership with NATO. Tomorrow it is based on operational cooperation with NATO and not just Finland. These extensive collaborations, combined with our own declaration of solidarity, bring us so close to NATO that we can hardly fail to be identified with the Alliance – without having either the effect of cooperation or the solidarity protection that membership would entail. Mr President, I would like to The foundations of Finland's foreign, security and defence policy include maintaining national freedom of movement and choice. This includes an opportunity to ally militarily and apply for membership of NATO. Decisions are always reviewed in real time taking into account changes in the international security environment. The interoperability achieved through cooperation with NATO ensures that there are no practical obstacles to possible accession. This is about the so-called NATO option, which has a combined support in the Finnish Parliament. With ever closer cooperation between Finland and a Sweden whose security policy line completely rejects NATO – until recently this line has also rejected a NATO option – Sweden would in practice devalue the value of the Finnish option and our security. The Center Party wants to strengthen it and our common security. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Swedish Parliament's majority now chooses to invite the government to follow Finland's example; Sweden will state that our security policy line includes an opportunity to apply for membership of NATO. This is the position of the Center Party for several years, and we are pleased that it now seems to be receiving support in the Riksdag. It is the government that is to receive the announcement, and it is our hope that it will be done in a better and more forward-looking way than happened with the two above-mentioned investigations. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation 14 under paragraph 5 on international military and civilian operations. The development of our territorial defence must not lead us to isolate ourselves and unilaterally target ourselves inwards. We must be ready to contribute where we can make a difference and contribute to peace and security, long-term development, democracy and human rights.
i-925becd649952333-94	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren is clear, I think, that it is the government that lays down the security policy line. But what does Kerstin Lundgren himself think about the confusion that arises about whether it is the parliament, the government or both who have a security policy line? Based on Ulf Kristersson's comments on his own Facebook page, the majority where Kerstin Lundgren now appears to be included seems to be convinced that there may be a parliament's security policy line. Then I would like to take this opportunity to ask Kerstin Lundgren about the change in attitude towards NATO by the Centre Party. According to the decision taken at the center meeting – Kerstin Lundgren was, as far as I understood, extremely active in the process until then – is the Center Party for a Swedish NATO membership with the reservation that we should have what we can call a Norwegian and Danish model: no permanent stationed troops in Sweden and no nuclear weapons on Swedish soil. Are these reasons to be taken into account in a NATO option? Are these reasons still valid for the Center Party's position that Sweden should seek membership of NATO? Or was it something that was just used in the debate at the Center Assembly to win that vote?
i-925becd649952333-97	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the Center Party appears to be part of the majority that may decide on a NATO option. But, Mr President, these are the movements of the Center Party. Of course, we are pleased that these movements are supported – the Center Party together with the Liberals in the last motion. The decision of the party general meeting is of course valid until the party general meeting makes a different decision. I haven't seen that coming. Then it has been misinterpreted by some, not least in the debate in this House. However, we can go back and see that we have pointed this out. Mr President, I would like to The ambiguity that Kenneth G. Forslund mentions must also be linked to – at least it is my picture – how the government chooses to interpret it. Tell them the government says, "We can't hear anything." We do not see that our basis has changed. Of course, others out there are thinking: What is going on? That is why I, on my part, made it clear that I hope and expect the government to listen and act in a different way from what the government, or governments, have done with regard to the investigations that have been produced and submitted to it. We had hoped for and asked for a greater political debate around them, a political discussion, but the government chose to put them in the drawer. If the government does the same with Parliament's decision in this part, there will be a discrepancy. We have it on a few such issues, and it does, of course, affect. So the government has the ultimate responsibility. The government makes decisions and has to do so. But it also has to act to make ends meet.
i-925becd649952333-103	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Kerstin Lundgren! I hope that Kerstin Lundgren will also come up with the question of how she views the various interpretations that are evident among the five parties behind the majority proposal and whether there is a parliamentary and a government's security policy line. I think it's quite interesting. Then there is the fact that with Kerstin Lundgren making it clear that the Centre Party's reservations about NATO membership remain, this majority rests on three different views about the relationship with NATO. One could speak of a moderate view, probably shared by the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, that we should join NATO. The Centers are: Yes, we join NATO, but no stationed troops and no nuclear weapons on Swedish soil. Then there is the view of the Swedish Democrats: we are going to introduce this NATO option, but we are not going to join NATO – but perhaps at some point in the future, possibly. It was not easy to sort out what Björn Söder meant. Is this a solid enough foundation, says Kerstin Lundgren, to make significant changes to Sweden's security policy line? I think there is a difference between maintaining a line and making changes in it. When making changes, you should think too carefully. Nor is this any decision. This is a decision where you need to agree not only on where to land but also on how to get there and what that will mean.
i-925becd649952333-107	Mr President, I would like to This is still a little interesting to hear. I would have liked to ask a rhetorical question. It would have been interesting, Mr President, if Kenneth G. Forslund had revealed the common views of the Left Party, the Green Party, the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats on Sweden's security policy line, what that argumentation has looked like and how equally obedient their images are of reality. However, I am not asking that question because I know that Kenneth G. Forslund cannot answer it, Mr President. Is this a big decision? Yes, it is a big decision if the Swedish parliament opens the door and calls on the government not to act for membership, because it is not membership, but to equate our position with the Finnish – an option, an opportunity, a freedom of action. The government usually argues that freedom of action is important. But precisely in one area, Mr President, the government does not want freedom of action, namely with regard to NATO membership. We want to open up that possibility too, Mr President. This is the NATO option. When you listen to Kenneth G Forslund, it sometimes sounds like this is not something that the Riksdag should devote itself to. It's just the government making decisions. But, Mr President, the government must – and it was said that it wanted to do so in a debate article I read – ensure that it has broad parliamentary support. And if you want broad parliamentary support, the question is: how big is it? How big is that supposed to be? Obviously it can be enough with the Green Party, the Left Party and the Social Democrats.
i-925becd649952333-111	Mr President, I would like to An armed attack on Sweden is still unlikely. However, the government makes a different assessment in this proposal, which considers that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. This is a new assessment of this defence policy proposal. The Left Party believes that there is no reason to evaluate the risk of an armed attack in this way. It is still unlikely that an individual military attack would be directed against Sweden. This is a view shared, for example, by the Peace Research Institute Sipri. The government's position risks creating unnecessary anxiety and upsetting the threat picture in a way that does not match reality. As we hear, there are plenty of bourgeois Members who are already doing so. A more accurate assessment is that it is still unlikely that a military attack would be directed at us in Sweden. On the other hand, Sweden would inevitably be affected by a security policy conflict or crisis in our neighbourhood. In such a case, it cannot be excluded that military force or threats could be used against Sweden. Our country's security requires an active, independent foreign policy with a broad commitment to democracy, human rights and international law, to women's liberation and to global social justice. Our starting point for Sweden's defence and security policy must be to protect our country's security. It requires a modern defence force capable of meeting the various threats that our country may face but also has the opportunity to be a peacekeeping force in other parts of the world. Sweden and the world today face bigger challenges than in a long time. We are in a new security policy situation in many respects. The security situation in Europe has changed and deteriorated. We see growing contradictions, military armaments and increased confrontation on our continent and in our neighbourhood. Russia's attempts at destabilisation, the war in Syria and Turkish human rights violations are examples of things that generate political uncertainty, while terrorist acts and increasing fascist currents create uncertainty and insecurity in Europe. Climate change, cyber threats, pandemics, hybrid threats and natural disasters must also be included in the security policy perspective. Today, more people in the world are on the run as a consequence of climate change than because of wars and conflicts. Despite significant progress in line with the UN Millennium Development Goals, people are starving to death and many die of simple or uncomplicated diseases and pregnancy and childbirth in large parts of the world, especially in the wake of the coronap pandemic. We are concerned that the Russian leadership has shown itself prepared to use military means to achieve political goals. There are no excuses for Russia's actions towards Ukraine and the unjust annexation of Crimea. Russia is a security policy threat, first and foremost to everyone in Russia who opposes the rule of the Kremlin. The poisoning of opposition leader Aleksej Navalnyj is the latest example. However, the imperialist policy of the Putin regime is primarily a direct threat to the populations of several neighbouring countries – Ukraine, Georgia, Belarus, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia – and not primarily to Sweden and the Nordic countries. But that, as the government only blames Russia, is an obvious simplification of a much more complex situation, not least because NATO's armaments and enlargement in Europe have also contributed to increasing tension in our neighbourhood. The Left Party does not share the government's view of Swedish cooperation with NATO. Sweden shall be militaryly non-aligned. That is the wisest security policy strategy. Then all approaches to NATO must be interrupted and the so-called host country agreement must be dismantled. This is what the Left Party has repeatedly demanded. The Left Party also does not share the government's view in the bill on the importance of strengthening military cooperation with the US and that American engagement is crucial for Europe's, and hence Sweden's, security and stability. Just such a thing as the revelation that the United States has been espionaging the Swedish defence industry shows that we can hardly count the United States as an ally that will always have the same interests as us. In this report, the blue-brown gang is voting through a so-called NATO option. This came about more or less last week to do when the Swedish Democrats turned. For three years, therefore, we have been in the Committee on Defence and have been discussing security policy across party boundaries. Mr President, I would like to The decision on a NATO option is in itself very unfortunate, and that is the wrong way for Sweden to go. The fact that the blue-brown gang makes this turn in security policy completely unprepared, without debate and without popular support only makes things worse. It is a decision that should not be made. As a result, the debate will not affect whether Sweden should join NATO, but when Sweden should do so. This is without popular support for NATO membership. Today, one of the most serious threats to global security is climate change and its consequences. Droughts, floods and extreme weather events pose direct threats and can be causes of war and conflict. It is therefore of security policy value that the objectives of the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030 are achieved. We believe that a security policy analysis needs to attach great importance to the climate problems that arise both locally and globally and which pose our greatest societal threat. The traditional instruments of security – the balance of military power and deterrence – are too blunt to deal with many challenges. To face today's security problems, therefore, a broader view of what security is and who it is for. A strong emphasis must be placed on preventing conflicts that escalate into conflict. The fact that Sweden should not contribute to war and conflict, for example through arms exports to dictatorships, should be self-evident. The prevention of armed conflicts is not given the space it should be given according to the priorities set in foreign and security policy. Sweden must give greater priority to preventive work for peace-building and the elimination of risks of armed conflict. It could be development cooperation and disarmament work that must go hand in hand with more concrete actions such as diplomacy, knowledge acquisition and election observation. Sweden should give greater priority to the prevention of armed conflicts. Mr President, I would like to Today, large parts of Norrbotten are used as a training and testing area for both Swedish and foreign military. Sweden's participation in a number of international military cooperation at EU and N ato level involves a number of commitments and joint exercises. The Left Party is concerned about how large parts of Norrbotten are converted into a military training field. Increased training activities, whether taken together with NATO, Pesco or other EU constellations, are at risk of having a negative impact on people as well as on the environment and important economic activities in the region. It is also for defence policy reasons doubtful how Sweden's defence capabilities are strengthened by giving other countries the opportunity to test and practice in our cold climate. The Neat exercise field includes both the Esrange Space Center outside Kiruna and the Vidsel Test Range in Älvsbyn and thus constitutes Europe's largest military exercise area over land. The training field has developed into an increasingly important arena for NATO's testing of bombers, drones, missiles and other types of weapons. The Left Party has strongly opposed this development. In the long term, we want to phase out this testing area. The government should therefore instruct the Armed Forces to come back with a plan for how it could be done. Sweden shall not participate in NATO-led exercises as these undermine the Swedish military alliance freedom. NATO-led exercises taking place on Swedish soil, in our airspace and in our territorial waters shall cease, and NATO shall not be allowed to practice or test weapons systems within Sweden's borders. Sweden must therefore tear up the Memorandum of Understanding on host country support with NATO. Mr President, I would like to This year it is 75 years since the atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. However, nuclear weapons are still an important part of the defence doctrine of many countries. On 24 October this year, the target of 50 countries having ratified the United Nations Convention on Nuclear Weapons Ban was reached and will take effect from 22 January 2021. This is a great success. As an independent and military non-aligned state, Sweden should of course belong to the group of countries that sign and ratify the UN Convention on Nuclear Weapons. Unfortunately, we do not today. Agreements on nuclear-free zones have proved to be one of the most effective tools against nuclear weapons and against nuclear proliferation. If countries can be sure that other states do not acquire nuclear weapons, it slows down the desire to acquire one's own. Large parts of the world, especially in the southern hemisphere, are already covered by nuclear-free zones. The global armament of nuclear weapons is very ominous. Particularly worrying are the failed nuclear talks between the United States and North Korea, and the United States and Iran. The tense relationship between Russia and NATO risks contributing to increased confidence in the deterrence of nuclear weapons, resulting in armaments and a balance of terror. In its 2020 Yearbook, the Peace Research Institute Sipri notes that although the number of nuclear weapons has decreased slightly in the world, all nuclear weapons states continue to modernise their arsenals. The fact that the United States and Russia, which together hold 90 percent of all nuclear weapons, continue to modernise their warheads creates uncertainty in the outside world. The new START agreement, which governs the strategic nuclear weapons of the United States and Russia, expires as soon as February 2021. The countries have not yet managed to reach an agreement on an extension. In its bilateral contacts, Sweden should work towards extending the START agreement. It is worrying that the US has chosen to leave the INF agreement on mutual nuclear disarmament with Russia. Sweden should also work there to ensure that a new agreement can come into place. The latest concern is the termination of the so-called Open Skies agreement. Sweden should work to ensure that the United States, with a new President, re-enter the Open Skies Agreement. Finally, I would like to say a few words about China. China is today, after the United States, the world's second largest military power. So it is China, and not Russia, that is the real challenger to the hegemony of the United States. That is why China's threats, especially to neighbouring countries, must be taken very seriously. New mechanisms against arms control and the promotion of diplomacy must therefore be the focus. The fact that China is not geographically close to Sweden does not mean that it does not pose a threat to Sweden's security policy interests. The Left Party opposes Sweden becoming a pawn in the great power game. Sweden is committed to de-stress and disarmament. As a military non-aligned state, Sweden has previously had great international confidence in peace negotiations. It should be our goal to regain that role instead of contributing to increased tension and rearmament. Sweden should counter the real causes of war and the threats to Sweden and the world posed by climate change and the growing gaps between the poor and the rich. Peace is best built by peaceful means. I commend the Left Party's reservation n umme r 3.
i-925becd649952333-141	Mr President, I would like to We must note that it was twelve eloquent minutes that the Left Party's Håkan Svenneling managed to perform. To a very large extent, it was pretty hard pucks straight into the sitting government. It is notable that the government representative Kenneth G Forslund did not request a reply to Håkan Svenneling's speech in view of the quite many attacks that Svenneling made on the government. Now the rules of the game will change after Svenneling's speech, that is, he also has the opportunity to ask questions to the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It will be a real pleasure for the opposition to follow that exchange of views. I just want to ask a control question, so that I know if I have listened and understood correctly, and, above all, give some attention to the audience following this. It is true that the Left Party has reserved itself in the Defence Committee against the wording that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. That is correct, so the Left Party can say this from the speaker's seat. Then we, who are outside, must wonder a little bit about the red chatter blocs, which come together in a joint reservation on a NATO option. As Kerstin Lundgren so wisely pointed out in her speech on the wording of the report on security policy cooperation, six parties have different views from those of the government. Then I need to ask you a question. The government says they have a common and united security policy line. Is the Left Party in all parts behind it?
i-925becd649952333-146	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is in opposition, and I would like to clarify and enlighten Mr Wallmark about this. This does not mean that we are cooperating with the government, either on the budget or on security policy for that matter, but it is the government that is laying down the government's security policy line. What I think is so unfortunate about what Hans Wallmark and others have pushed through is that there has now become a lack of clarity about what is Sweden's security policy line, whether it is the government's or parliament's so-called line that applies and what it means, and above all, that it has done so without debate. It turns on the drum and announces Swedish media: We have changed our mind. We have introduced a so-called NATO option. And everyone immediately asks: What is this? What does that mean? What are the consequences for Swedish security policy? I believe that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence behind me are also thinking about this. What I think is the most unfortunate thing about this debate is that we are getting into a discussion where the will to approach NATO is so much more important than the motives, the reasons and the reasoning. I would have been against it but had had great respect if the Defence Committee had reached a NATO option, had clear arguments, motives and so on and had explained what the reasons were. You'd have spent three years thinking about it. Now it feels like you have spent about three minutes on it, because it was really in strange forms that we had to postpone decisions after decisions. You jump on us on the other side and ask why we do not have any counter-arguments against the NATO option. That's because you don't have any arguments for it. We cannot say what is wrong and what is wrong with it, because we do not know what the decision we will take tomorrow will mean for Swedish security policy, and that worries me. I stand for a line in Swedish security policy that is a little more calm than that of many other parties. I'm going to stand by it, no matter how the wind blows.
i-925becd649952333-151	Mr President, I would like to Those of us who are in favour of a NATO option have probably spent more than three minutes on it. But I fully understand that Håkan Svenneling and the left party he represents have not spent more than three minutes. I think it is fundamentally very good that, after tomorrow's decision, there is, in any case, a clear parliamentary majority behind Sweden making the same security policy statements as Finland. As I said in my speech, it is not the same as the fact that there is a majority in favour of NATO membership in Finland, nor in Sweden. On the other hand, I think it is wise to point out that this tool is in the safety policy toolbox. We clearly think differently here. That is why it will be very interesting, Mr President, to hear how the government sees that they still have a fairly reassuring majority in Parliament for a NATO option. My question was whether there is a united security policy line within the red chatter bloc, between the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. Then I only repeat what I perceived in condensed form that Håkan Svenneling said: No, there is not a single, common security policy line in the red chatter blocks.
i-925becd649952333-155	Mr President, I would like to It's a perfectly accurate analysis. If the government wants one, they are welcome to call me and negotiate one. Let's get one of those. However, we have been clear in our reservations in the various reports of the Defence Committee that we do not think that we should change the security policy line, on which all the other parties agree, to the effect that an attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. We still find it unlikely. There are many things in the world around us that are worrying and cause discomfort, but at the same time we can see that much of what Russia is doing has been done before. Now you're a little more transparent, open and tell me what you're supposed to do. You have a more threatening way of doing that. At the same time, it is a clear imperialist threat to the neighbouring countries around it, which is described as a sphere of interest that is being sought to achieve. To make this NATO option, which we do not really know what it means, and to say that it is a tool in the toolbox becomes very unclear to me. For me, it's like a screwdriver going into a nut, that is, a tool that's not for what you want to achieve. I don't know what this means. Does that mean that next week we are going to vote on NATO membership in Parliament or whether we are going to have 2% in the budget? Nobody knows. All we are saying is that we are constantly moving closer to NATO membership. And I know Hans Wallmark is happy about it; it has been clear all along. But I am surprised by everyone else who is also moving in a direction closer to NATO membership without discussing what that means for Sweden's security policy line. That is why I am deeply concerned about the decision that Parliament will take tomorrow.
i-925becd649952333-159	Mr President, I would like to It is a little interesting to drill a little deeper into the broad parliamentary support that exists for the government's security policy line. The Left Party is today the only party outside the government that supports the whole line of security policy, as it seems. Against this background, Mr President, I would appreciate it if Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party could clarify what the security policy line they support actually consists of. What is the solid security policy that serves us well? Would Håkan Svenneling like to answer that question?
i-925becd649952333-161	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether I want to answer the question, for the simple reason that the Left Party, like the Center Party, has a reservation in the parts dealing with Sweden's security policy line. That is where we make the criticism that I made to the government in my speech. We think that we are drifting too close to NATO and do not have any clarity as to where the borders go. Now a parliament will take a decision against the government's will – another decision that makes us not really know what Sweden's security policy line is. I believe that our strength as a country is to be able to say that we are militaryly non-aligned and thereby demonstrate to our surrounding world what kind of country we are. But now we've started to mix up the cards, mix them and make it clearer. This makes me worried about how the outside world perceives Sweden's security policy line. That is why I think it would be better if, day by day, we did not drift towards NATO towards membership, if we did not allow practice, for example, to the extent that we allow it to take place in Norrbotten's interior, but instead prioritised peace prevention and put our own security first. Now I don't know where we're going, and that worries me. I hope that Kerstin Lundgren can be clearer about what the NATO option means, because Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party have been the driving force in gradually pushing Sweden towards NATO membership. They would probably like it to be like at the Party of the Center Party, where you add some sentences, feel safe and hope that everyone is a center party in the world, but unfortunately that is not the reality. The United States is the world's largest possessor of nuclear weapons. Does this mean that Sweden will be a place for nuclear weapons if we become members of NATO? It could mean that. We do not know, and we do not know what the NATO option means for this.
i-925becd649952333-165	Mr President, I would like to It is really interesting to hear how broad parliamentary support is shaped. I hear about a security policy line that rejects the host country agreement. It will be terminated. They say no to exercises with NATO. That does not sound like a solidarity policy, a line that is part of this. Mr President, I would like to When I listen to how the government's parliamentary support in Parliament is expressed, I think the meaning of the security policy line is unclear. Of course, the government has reason to think about this. Håkan Svenneling is considering a NATO option mentioned in the report. I note that there is broad consensus in Finland. Håkan Svenneling's party colleagues are there to present the security policy statement to the Finnish Parliament, and it includes a NATO option. I assume that the political contacts are so good that Håkan Svenneling has been able to listen to how the NATO option has been used in the Finnish discussion, not least with regard to the big neighbour to the east. This has come in handy to mark out: We make our own decisions. We are not part of your sphere of interest. We reserve the right to act independently. This is not about membership; it is an opening to membership. We do not take it lightly to decide on membership. On the other hand, we're not going to close the door. If we did, we would reduce our security, Mr President.
i-925becd649952333-169	Mr President, I would like to It is the Center Party and not the Left Party that constitutes the government's parliamentary support. It is with the Center Party that the government negotiates the budget and thereby gets it through in parliament and can therefore remain in office. The Left Party has abstained from voting so that the government can even take office. We have said that we think it is better to have a social democratic government than a bourgeois government, especially if it has the support of the Swedish Democrats. But it is the Center Party that constitutes parliamentary support, not the Left Party. There are many things that we in Sweden could draw inspiration from in Finnish security policy. It is above all about the stoic calm that I think is present in Finnish security policy. Maybe it's about to change. We saw some moves after the last joint conference. But basically they have always had a more cress and calm attitude towards Russia and its actions than we see in Sweden. In Sweden you often spin on anxiety and create pressure precisely because you want to approach NATO. The way in which the Swedish debate is conducted concerns me very much. I do not think that Kerstin Lundgren's description of the NATO option can be seen as opening the door. If you listen to the Swedish debate, you hear that the door has never been as open – both from NATO and from Sweden – for us to join. That is what makes you wonder what this means. I take it that this will mean that we will always discuss when we are going to join NATO instead of whether we are going to do so. One should take a look at the popular support that exists not to be in NATO. Otherwise, politicians would make decisions that do not have popular support. This was the case, for example, in the EMU vote, when many politicians wanted to join. But the people said no, and today we are outside with solid support for it.
i-925becd649952333-174	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Security Policy – Total Defence 2021 – 2025. In order not to forget that, I would like to begin by calling for the Christian Democrats' reservation 4 to be approved under paragraph 1. I would like to take this opportunity to present in the debate the position of the Christian Democrats on the security policy situation, Sweden's role and how we should act and navigate, as well as on NATO, Finland and specifically the NATO option. Let me begin with the security policy situation which has unfortunately deteriorated. In January four years ago, we in the Defence Committee were tasked by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist to analyse the security policy situation. We noted that Russia's actions had changed. You're prepared to use force. We pointed out in particular what happened in Georgia but also in the near future in Ukraine. Right now, while we are in this Chamber, there is a war going on in Eastern Ukraine. Under Björn von Sydow's leadership we were at the Defence Committee in Ukraine. In Minsk, we were in a military hospital. I'll never forget it. We met soldiers who had been to eastern Ukraine. It was, for example, a soldier who had been hit by a sniper, Mr President. A large part of the leg had been shot away. Another soldier would have stepped on a mine. This is a reminder for us not to forget that there is a war going on, albeit low-intensity, in Eastern Ukraine. We also see a tougher Russian practice pattern in the Baltic Sea. We in Sweden have been outside war for 200 years, which is fantastic. It is important to remember, however, that war is terrible and that war can be damaged. But you can also be harmed by peace so that you take everything for granted. We also pointed this out in our analyses. Seven parties participated in the analyses. All parties except the Left Party agreed that an armed attack on Sweden could not be ruled out and that Sweden would inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurred in the immediate area. If a military crisis or conflict in our neighbourhood should arise, Sweden will most likely be withdrawn together with our neighbours. This is precisely what we need to take altitude for. We need to make sure we can do our part. This is the environment in which we stand. We in Sweden need to be able to defend ourselves on our own so that others can help us. I don't want the house to burn down before the fire department gets here. Therefore, we must ensure that we strengthen our own defence capabilities. We will talk more about this in the next debate. However, it is a problem that the government agreed with us on what was needed and what military reinforcements would be required, but it did not want to add money in a ten-year perspective. Let me say something about NATO. We think it goes without saying, Mr President, that NATO is the ultimate guarantee of security in our part of the world. Sweden is working closely with NATO today. We're partners, which is great. However, the Christian Democrats believe that we in Sweden need to upgrade this so that we become a full member. I usually say this, which is a matter of course: It is better to prepare with your friends than to have to improvise if the worst happens. If we become a full member of NATO, we could have common defence planning. There's a big difference to what we have now. NATO membership means that paragraph 5 applies to a mutual defence obligation. It would seriously strengthen Sweden's security, and it would also help our neighbouring countries. It is very important and would make it easier for the Baltic States if they were attacked. If NATO is to help them, Swedish territory needs to be used. This would provide predictability, and that is something that investigator Krister Bringéus also stated four years ago. He said that Swedish membership of NATO would be conflict retention. It would help both us and the outside world, and it is a view that the Christian Democrats drive and hope to see implemented. As far as Europe is concerned, we in the Christian Democrats are in favour of greater cooperation within the EU, but it should be complementary and not something that is in place of NATO membership. It should not compete with NATO. However, it is a fact that the US, regardless of administration, is likely to be more focused on the Pacific. That is why we in Europe must take greater responsibility for our own security. This brings us to the fact that, like the NATO countries, Sweden must ensure that 2% of GDP is spent. Sweden is currently investing least of the Baltic Sea countries, and that is not sustainable, Mr President. We will not be able to pay the bills and we will not be able to carry out the necessary reinforcements of our defence capabilities. This is a very important part of understanding how we can respond – look ourselves in the mirror, look our friends in the face and do our part. Finland and we have close defence cooperation, Mr President, which is very good. We think it should evolve. The report states that Finland has issued a NATO option whereby it maintains the possibility of seeking membership of NATO and takes careful note of changes in its security policy environment. ... Finland ensures that no practical obstacles will arise in the event of accession to NATO. ..................................................... This is not strange, Mr President. If we are to work closely with Finland, which we are to do, we should reasonably take the same line. This is not rocket science, but it is a natural part of a collaboration. Most importantly, Mr President, it would increase safety. A Swedish-Finnish NATO option would raise the threshold for a possible attacker, and that is the bottom line. That is why we are pushing this; what drives the Christian Democrats is that we should increase security. As I began with, we see a tougher security policy environment. Then Sweden must do its part, and we must strengthen security. We need to strengthen our own ability to act before the house burns down, in case the worst happens – in case a crisis becomes a war. We would also have to seek NATO membership, that is, upgrade our current partnership. We also need to develop cooperation with Finland – and like them have a NATO option.
i-925becd649952333-189	Mr President, I would like to Over the past six years with the Red Green Government, we have entered into both bilateral and trilateral defence cooperation with the United States. We've become gold-plated partners and entered the JEF, Joint Expeditionary Force. We are taking part in the EI2, the European intervention initiative. As the member Wallmark was in the past, we are now also placing regiments in the line Trøndelag and Mälardalen – all in order to facilitate any help. Peter Hultqvist has concluded more bilateral agreements with NATO countries than any other former Minister of Defence. Sometimes I get the question from journalists what Sweden can do to deepen its cooperation with NATO, Mr President, and then I usually answer that there is nothing more to do unless NATO comes up with something new. That is why the membership perspective is a logical continuation of the policy pursued by the government, Mr President, but it is my view that it is forgoes for both partisan and domestic political reasons. In security policy, I believe that analysts and countries are taking on board what different countries are doing rather than what they are saying. As Kerstin Lundgren has mentioned, I do not think it is any surprise whatsoever that we are perceived by Moscow as part of the Western Security Community. The problem, however, is that it will then land in a security policy no man's country where, on the one hand, there are no defence guarantees and, on the other hand, there is no credible freedom of alliance. Kenneth G Forslund said earlier that Sweden's security policy line is solid. I study the government declarations very carefully, and I think I can see that since 2014, there have been changes on some points almost every year. I am a little surprised when Kenneth G. Forslund describes the line that remains firm without even mentioning the solidarity policy on security. Moreover, the defence arrangement that the Liberals, together with the Centre Party, have entered into with the Government is not part of the January Agreement; it is completely separate. My question to Kenneth G. Forslund is: If the Riksdag is not going to speak on security policy at all, why is the government sending these texts here? Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 7 and 10.
i-925becd649952333-194	Mr President, I would like to The world is changing – in many respects slowly, but sometimes it is very fast. We see a development both in Sweden and in the world that over the past few years has often been marked by a sharp caste, and the year we soon leave behind is a clear example of that. In the footsteps of the pandemic, a lot has changed, and yet there is still some way to go before we stand on the other side. However, it is not just the pandemic that has surprised us. An increasingly capricious President of the United States threatens the very foundations of democracy, namely the confidence in free and fair elections. We have also been surprised by the development of countries in our neighbourhood where the fight for democratic and human rights must be stepped up – most recently with the threat of withdrawn EU budget support. We also know that the threat of climate change is imminent; only in recent days have there been several worrying reports. The Corona crisis came unexpectedly, but the climate crisis does not. When preparedness, crisis insight and disaster in 2020 have been high on the domestic policy agenda, it is not arms or armoured wagons that have been asked for, but it is becoming increasingly clear that the vulnerability of our society is about something completely different. Our approach to security in a broader perspective must accompany this new era and the challenges we see, but we must also take the military threats and the ambitions of power seriously. We all want a world without weapons and without war, where freedom is for everyone and where the struggle for democracy and human rights is won everywhere and forever. But that is not what the world looks like today – quite the opposite. Instead of an increasingly peaceful world, as we saw for many years, the number of conflicts is on the rise. Instability has increased around the world, and also in our neighbourhood. The threat of increasingly totalitarian regimes in our vicinity, or far away, is serious and is constantly present. We must act on that. The answer to the military threats is the rehabilitation of national defence, as well as deepening international cooperation, but also diplomacy and conflict prevention at all levels. Mr President, I would like to As we are facing increased military excitement, Sweden's security is also affected by hybrid threats, cyber attacks and cross-border terrorism. Furthermore, we now increasingly know about the effects of climate change on peace and security. The climate is the destiny of our time. It is in itself and, above all, in how a changing climate is closely linked to everything else. Wars and conflicts are already in the midst of drought, and armed conflicts are exacerbated by the fact that natural resources are running low and more and more people are having to share less and less. In addition, the distribution of resources is deeply unfair, both within and between countries. The climate issue is a security issue, and it is time that it is taken more seriously in these contexts too. If we do not manage to drastically reduce emissions, it is not only natural disasters that we face, but also the effects of a tougher society that seeks to secure the privileges of its own group. We must use all our tools to reduce the risk to our own safety. Strengthening our own ability is one way. Another is to work through enhanced cooperation. The international work is done on many levels. This is done through defence cooperation as well as through international institutions. The role of the EU and the UN is crucial for international solidarity both through aid and through all the organisations that strengthen, support and develop the work for more global equality. Not to mention their leading roles and the importance it had for the world to adopt, and now have to meet, the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Sweden has a long tradition of supporting the UN. We must continue to be active in all areas of the UN, such as peace, security, development cooperation, human rights and, not least, climate action. Mr President, I would like to The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is one of the greatest threats to international peace and security. In the interests of improved security, disarmament is absolutely essential, not least of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. But here too we do not see positive tendencies. Developments in the nuclear field have led to increasing concern in recent years. This is due both to major investments made by nuclear weapons states to develop and modernise the arsenals and to the fact that international agreements are left by the parties and are becoming less and less important. Sweden must continue to be a force for disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. The aim must be effective and verifiable disarmament and to prevent new countries from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. This also applies to autonomous weapons and the use of artificial intelligence for military purposes. Sweden is doing important work here and must be at the forefront. But we could also do more. I and the Green Party have long been clear: we want Sweden to sign the International Convention for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. When we have to reverse every step to build in every context for a sustainable peace, there are no tools to leave behind. I hope that everyone else in this House will also come to the same conclusion in due course. Mr President, I would like to Gender equality is an important objective in itself. It is about everyone having the same rights, regardless of their gender. But it is also a means of achieving other goals, both in traditional defence work and in the broader perspective. More women in peace processes and in peace negotiations produce more lasting results. That is why we must continue to strengthen UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. Strengthening women's empowerment in general at all levels also produces positive results on the strength and democratic development of states. For this, the feminist foreign and development policy is of the utmost importance. The Swedish security policy line has long been stable, long-term and predictable. Fundamental to good foreign relations is precisely that: stability and long-termness. So should the bourgeois and right-wing nationalist parties both understand and agree. However, after last week's violent fluctuations in the question of a NATO opt-out, it seems that this is no longer the case. The opposition, on the one hand, seems eager to push through an ill-thought-out and unprepared proposal, but on the other hand, does not agree with what they want to do with it, which must nevertheless be seen as a blow in the air. That game could certainly be a bit amusing, if it wasn't that it was Sweden's security that was being put at risk. The line of the Green Party and the government is firm and clear. Sweden should not join NATO, and it does not change a NATO option on whatever it is considered to mean. Mr President, I would like to Freedom is worth defending. That's exactly what we're doing. That is what Sweden's defence is all about. It is about you and me and everyone else being able to live free lives in a free democracy. I therefore call for the MP, S and V reservations to be accepted and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the rest of the report.
i-925becd649952333-213	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that I share Janine Alm Ericson's introduction to her speech on the importance of climate change for security policy. It is something that we have also paid attention to on the part of the Moderates, even a few years ago when we presented a new defence and security policy to our party assembly. I think it's important and correct. Mr President, I would like to Then, too, let us commend today's leaders in the Ndustri of today for reading. It points out precisely that NATO has also begun to highlight the importance of climate and security policy. It may be recommended for reading. Mr President, I would like to However, I have two questions. Firstly, how does Janine Alm Ericson, whose party is part of the government base, interpret the Swedish Defence Committee and what is now also highlighted in the bill that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out? Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. What is the difference between the Left Party, which is opposed to this, and the Green Party, which is in favour of this? Secondly, as has been said, this report also deals with weapons of mass destruction. There, the Left Party has a reservation to the effect that it is speaking in favour of what it calls the UN's ban on nuclear weapons. The Green Party has no reservation. In addition, I have repeatedly asked representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs questions saying that the government has no ambition to sign this ban. At the same time, an environmentalist in the speaker's chair says that you are in favour of it. What is the government's line on this issue, Mr President?
i-925becd649952333-217	Mr President, I would like to It is very good that there are now more people who see the link between security policy, instability and climate change. I haven't read the article in Dagens i ndustri but look forward to doing so. It is welcome if both NATO and the Moderates talk more about it, even though there was not much about the climate in Wallmark's speech. On Hans Wallmark's questions about how we interpret it cannot be excluded, we support what is stated in the Defence Committee's statement. On the other hand, we do not believe that it is the most likely that it is the threat that is the greatest and is at the door. Rather, we need to prepare ourselves for other threats. We must ensure that there is preparation for the use of resources where they are most needed. I will come back to this in the next debate on military defence and civil defence. But that is a very interesting and important question. When we invest this much money, resources, time and energy, it must be on things that can be used where they are needed and when needed. Hans Wallmark says that the Green Party has no reservation here, but of course we do – we have one against the NATO option which is now proposed but which no one really knows what it means. However, with regard to the nuclear ban and the convention that will now go through, it is quite rightly noted that the government has agreed not to proceed with signing or ratifying. It is also because we see that there is no majority in this House to do so; the resistance is compact. On the other hand, as a party, we can still say that we would like to see it done. We'll see what happens next. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Wallmark: what is it really a NATO option that we do not already have the opportunity to do today?
i-925becd649952333-224	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm confused. What is the government's line on the so-called UN ban on nuclear weapons? Is this what Janine Alm Ericson, on behalf of one of two government parties, says from the Parliament's pulpit, or is that what representatives of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs say – that one should not ratify? I have complained in the past that the government is calling for a line of uncertainty. I think it has had even clearer features of uncertainty. Is that a yes or a no? Janine Alm Ericson says that it is unlikely when I quote what the Defence Committee has come up with, what is in the bill and what the Left Party has reserved against, namely this: An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be ruled out military force or that threats of it may be used against Sweden. Then Janine Alm Ericson, on behalf of the government bloc, says that it is unlikely. What was the whole point and what the Defence Committee said, not least through its chairman Björn von Sydow, was that we should not engage in the theory of probability. Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what the Green Party is doing now, in the same way as the Left Party. But they have the right to do so, because they have reserved against it. Mr President, I would like to What we have now seen is a demonstration of a line of ambiguity – a lack of connection with the government where one can say one thing from the speaker's chair and something else in the texts you deliver. This is not good enough, Mr President.
i-925becd649952333-230	Mr President, I would like to I think Hans Wallmark is now building quite a few straw men about what I said from the speaker's chair and what I answer to his questions. I said clearly that we are behind the line that is in the bill that is laid, and that is the message that exists. On the other hand, I am not here as a representative of the government; I am here as a representative of the Green Party and the policy we would prefer to see pursued. Then everyone knows, including Mr Wallmark, that in politics compromises must be made, and we fully support them. I look forward to Mr Wallmark entering into some agreements which he must then stand by no matter what and cannot speak for the line of his party. I wonder if it is really appropriate that Hans Wallmark is talking about a line of ambiguity. I asked the question of what a NATO option actually means more than what can already be done. I find it difficult to see that we would have any difficulty in joining NATO if Sweden wanted to do so without a NATO option. What is it that has been seen to stop us? This has not come to light either in this debate, in what you are writing or in what you are talking about. Therefore, we cannot see it as anything but a rather powerful blow in the air that means nothing but that you can move forward the positions and signal something that we do not agree on, and also do so with the help of the Swedish Democrats. However, I think that is a line of ambiguity.
i-925becd649952333-235	Mr President, I would like to Building a security policy architecture that lasts over time, that is long-term and that creates stability is a very delicate task. Finland is a military non-aligned country which, 20 to 25 years ago, also marked a NATO option. It should be seen in the light of the fact that at that time, because of the old history of the closeness to the Soviet Union and what it meant, one wanted to mark a freedom. Later on, they joined the European Union and EMU. Finland has now had this option for a very long time. It is part of the pattern of predictability and stability that that country represents. Sweden comes from a tradition and history that has been about neutrality and military alliance freedom and is now about military alliance freedom. We have a Norway that was one of the founders of NATO, and from the history that Norway has it is a natural choice for them. We also have a similar history in Denmark. The fact that the Baltic countries joined NATO is almost self-evident given their history and their background. Poland also has a special history here. What it is all about is, based on the history, the geography and the military geography that exists, to compose a whole that builds the best possible security architecture to preserve peace and to achieve long-term stability. It also includes the element of predictability. If you have a long-term ambition and long-term predictability, then suddenly you can't just pick up some new puzzle pieces and think that it doesn't mean anything and believe that it doesn't create question marks or things that others are thinking about so that they think: Where are they going? It is not just to do so, but it seems to be the view that prevails in some quarters. I believe that the security architecture that has been built is a good foundation in our part of Europe. I have never faced any government pressure from anyone during these six years that Sweden needs to join NATO or need some kind of NATO option, but it has been full respect for the Swedish line. We have built the international collaborations that have been necessary and which are also about quite a lot of agreements by now– if I am now going to develop Widman's reasoning. We have therefore signed some thirty international agreements and more than 20 cooperation agreements. It is also based on broad support in the Swedish parliament. I am deeply convinced of the correctness of this policy. I am proud that we have been able to do this, because it has contributed to the security policy puzzle in our part of Europe. We have also been able to do so on the basis that we have had a base platform of military alliance freedom that has been stable and where we have not been picking with different pieces of the puzzle and bringing in or bringing out one or the other. This is what I think is the best platform for developing international cooperation in the future. Then the great challenge that lies in this decision and something that I think is genuinely the right wording on page 70: Sweden should be able to give and receive military and civilian support. It is crucial to create a real opportunity to act together and coordinated in the event of a crisis or a war. Sweden should, as far as possible, develop a joint operational planning plan with Finland and coordinate operational planning with Denmark, Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States and NATO. I think that this is quite the right adjustment and quite the right balance in the time we are currently living in with regard to international cooperation. We signed an agreement with Norway and Finland on Nordkalotten, which we signed in Porsanger, to look at how we can take increased joint responsibility up there. It was a step forward in this spirit. The agreement also includes that we should look at coordination and planning. But this also opens up much more. Sweden will, I believe, have the position we have today as a basis for moving forward in international cooperation. The fact that what we do doesn't matter is very strange to hear. It has a profound significance. We build interoperability in everyday life, i.e. the ability to act if necessary. It's this flight, marine and army drills. Operational planning with Finland is not for therapeutic reasons, but for us, if necessary, to be able to use it. But this requires that both governments make that decision. The fact that we are in both JEF and EI2 with several groupings is also about building a security network where we involve more people. The link to the United States, on which we have put a lot of work, includes cooperation skills, exercises, trainings, material collaborations, research, development and international efforts. The agreements we have signed have played a major role in increasing joint activity. All of this has contributed to greater security in our part of Europe. It is stabilizing, and it contributes in the long term to peace. That's how we see it. On the other hand, to start changing the security policy doctrine, where this with the NATO option is the beginning of a slip– I do not see that it is enough for the Moderates, the KD and which parties it is now, but then the next and the next again. This is ultimately about NATO membership. Here we disagree. I have explained why I believe that the line we have today is the best one: that we start from a military freedom of alliance and cooperate on this basis. So we have different starting values in the assessment of changing geomilitary conditions and fundamental doctrines. On the other hand, we have no naivety whatsoever in this. Russia has done what it has done. Georgia is a fact, as is Crimea, the conflict in Ukraine and the game in Belarus. The disinformation is a fact, as well as practice activities that are more or less provocative. The construction of the Arctic, the patrolling of the North Atlantic and the activity around the UK are a fact. This must be seen with clear eyes, and that is why we have today to take a position on increased military capabilities combined with enhanced cooperation. We do not hesitate at all when it comes to deepening cooperation. On the other hand, we are firmly opposed to changing the basic doctrine. It is in practice what we do – the collaborations, the exercises, the exchange of information, the planning work and all the participation we have in one and the other – that we build the kit that is useful when it comes to it. Then, through our actions, the aim is to ensure that we do not end up in such situations. I am also very surprised when you sometimes want to use Finland to argue in some way for NATO membership. Opinion against NATO membership in Finland is stable. There is no majority in the Finnish Parliament for NATO membership. I had over 50 meetings with the former defense minister, and I've had over 20 with the current one. I think I have a pretty clear picture of the opinion situation in Finland. We have very good and reliable cooperation, and there are no demands from the Finnish Government for us to change and have any kind of NATO option. I just want to make this absolutely clear. What is said in this type of conversation, I assume, is what applies in different contexts. I think we have developed our policy in such a way that we respond to the demands of today's situation. We have done this with regard to Swedish history, Swedish tradition and the security policy architecture that applies. We have not been inclined to engage in any experimental activity or to make a sharp move, but we have tried to prioritise long-term and stability. What is stated in the government declaration and the foreign declaration on military alliance freedom is also the government's line. As far as we are concerned, we are therefore behind what is in the bill. This is what we advocate as the Swedish line in the future. Then I have respect for the fact that there may be differences of opinion. But I have now explained what our view is, why we think it is the most stable, why we do not want to make changes and why we believe that this benefits security, stability and peace the best long-term.
i-925becd649952333-258	Mr President, I would like to I really only have one question, and I'm banging on the beetroot, so to speak. In what way is the NATO option harmful to Sweden but apparently perfectly all right for Finland?
i-925becd649952333-259	Mr President, I would like to I have just explained how a security policy architecture in Scandinavia and around the Baltic Sea can be viewed. I have briefly explained the historical developments in both Finland and Sweden and why Norway has its position and Denmark its. I believe that this security policy architecture is the one that best benefits peace and stability in the long term and that it should be based on it when moving forward with international cooperation. Finland has a predictability that they have established their line and maintained it for 25 years. We have a predictability that we have had our line with military alliance freedom consistently since joining the European Union. If you start changing different puzzle pieces in this, Oscarsson, question marks arise, and that is why we have a lot of question marks in the air. I am proud and happy to have entered into all these military cooperations, because that is necessary. But I think the wisest thing is to continue along that line. Finland has its predictability, and we have ours. Norway has its predictability. I don't think you should go in there and shake these pieces.
i-925becd649952333-263	Mr President, I would like to In the statement by the Minister of Defence, we understand that he has had 70 meetings with the former and the current Minister of Defence in Finland. We understand that he is proud of the cooperation agreements that have been established, and I think he has the right to be. He also reiterates once again to the House the importance of close cooperation with America and that America is our close partner. There, too, I have nothing to say about it. But, Mr President, it will be a little difficult to understand what the outrage is really about. The Minister for Defence devotes almost all of his speech to the NATO option, which has indeed been a cornerstone of Finnish foreign policy for a long time. But it's not a hocus-pocus. It is just as I said in my speech, Mr President: Finland has issued a NATO option, which means that it maintains the possibility of seeking membership of NATO and pays close attention to changes in its security policy environment. Finland ensures that no practical obstacles will arise in the event of accession to NATO. A majority says that by strengthening common security with Finland, we are raising the threshold. A Swedish-Finnish approach to NATO option would thus increase security and predictability. This is exactly in line with Krister Bringéus' position. I do not really understand, and I think that many in the Swedish people wonder how it might be that the Minister for Defence is so keen to cooperate with Finland while what is okay with Finland with a NATO option would be harmful to Sweden. It doesn't make any sense.
i-925becd649952333-267	Mr President, I would like to If there is any question asked, I think that is why this is coming from the bourgeois side. Why change something that works and contributes to peace and stability in our part of Europe? This will be an elaborate discussion. We have come a long way in Swedish-Finnish cooperation with operational planning, information exchange, staff exchange and interoperability. We can take many further steps, which I will come back to in the next debate. We are doing perfectly well without having to bring this issue in. I have tried twice to explain, and do not know whether to draw it a third time, that the architecture of security policy creates the overall stability of a part of Europe, and it forms part of the basic foundation of why we can act as we do. But we pick out a piece of the puzzle and for that we create uncertainty about where Sweden is going. This on your part, I see only as part of the fact that you will eventually want to push through NATO membership. Here we disagree. We believe that it is excellent to cooperate with NATO within the framework of the Enhanced Opportunities Partner without membership and without running any kind of experimental activity in which we upset the balance that I have now tried to describe for the third time.
i-925becd649952333-271	Mr President, I would like to Through Sweden's membership of the EU's military cooperation Pesco, through Sweden's host country agreement with NATO and, for example, through Sweden's trilateral cooperation with the US, Sweden has opened up for other countries to conduct testing and practice activities in Norrbotten in particular. Through the Neat training field, Europe's largest military training area over land has been created, above all, for flights and armies. The training field has developed into an important arena for NATO's testing of bombers, drones, missiles and other types of weapons. The area is often marketed with arguments such as large areas, sparse population, snow, darkness and cold. Already during the time of the Persson government, the Social Democrats pushed on to develop testing activities in the north, including through the government public investigation 2006:62. These are initiatives that we now see being implemented fifteen years later. But the activities have consequences, not only for residents in the area but also for the sensitive Arctic environment. When large land areas are reserved for military exercises, important industries may stand back, such as tourism, forestry, wind power and reindeer farming, all of which are important sources of income in the region. It is also for defence policy reasons doubtful how Sweden's defence capabilities are strengthened by allowing other countries to test and practice in our cold climate. This means that a number of countries that today lack the capacity to wage war in Arctic climates are suddenly given that capacity. I therefore wonder, Minister of Defence: how do we ensure peace in the Nordic countries and the Arctic if more countries are allowed to learn to fight in Arctic climates?
i-925becd649952333-277	Mr President, I would like to The rules and permits of the activity in the area in question are those that you have to comply with when setting up your business. These are agreements and rules that relate to Swedish law and the exercise of public authority. We practice with many other countries. We participate in different types of operations with others to increase our own national capabilities. I have explained why we need international cooperation for stability and peace in our part of Europe. This is an example of how to cooperate with others. I can't see a problem with us having a business in Vidsel. I think it's good for Sweden. I also believe that it is good for peace and stability to interact with others and thus also to gain knowledge.
i-925becd649952333-280	Mr President, I would like to I believe that this is a dangerous path that the Social Democrats, led by Peter Hultqvist, have led us into. Today, there is no clear border between Sweden and NATO. Apart from saying no to NATO membership itself, the Social Democrats under Peter Hultqvist's leadership take us step by step closer to NATO. It is good that the government is today saying no to the NATO option, which the blue-brown gang is pushing for by raising the tone of the debate and pressing on. But it is not enough to contribute to the detour of our region. It is time for the government to reschedule politics and halt in allowing other countries to carry out exercises and testing activities to the extent that is now taking place in Norrbotten. The government should take measures, such as the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in the Arctic, to create greater tension. Instead, stone is constantly being laid on stone and the level is increasing. Of course, there is a threat picture from Russia, but Sweden does not contribute to increased relaxation in the area through the government's policy. With regard to the drift towards NATO, which is now continuing one more step, the Minister for Defence must step in with greater clarity and say: No, we are not interested in NATO membership. This is where we set the line, and we're not going any further. The bourgeois parties are clearly pushing on with their own agenda, and we see that they are prepared to forego the clarity of Sweden's security policy line because they love NATO. I hope for a clearer Minister of Defence who says no to NATO and points out where the limit of cooperation with NATO actually goes.
i-925becd649952333-287	Mr President, I would like to We have chosen a line of cooperation with NATO, which we also have broad support for in Parliament. We haven't chosen a member line. We have been absolutely clear about this. We and the Left Party disagree on this issue. We believe that we should have the bilateral and trilateral agreements, that we should be part of the Enhanced Opportunities Partner and that we should practice with others because we believe that it creates stability and security. This second does not lead to greater stability and security, but it does more to prevent us from achieving the stability and security we need. We must realise that the military structure and the violations of international law that are taking place around us are a reality, and then we can not only talk about it but must also guard ourselves in various ways. However, it should be done in such a way that we start from our military freedom of alliance and do not experiment with the fundamental doctrine. We disagree, and that is democracy.
i-925becd649952333-291	Mr President, I would like to There is a similarity between the Minister of Defence and the undersigned in that we have respect for the fact that there are opinions other than our own on the question of the value of Swedish NATO membership. I have the greatest respect that other people may think completely different from me. That's also why I run opinion for what I think is right and right from a Swedish security perspective, namely a Swedish NATO membership. But I meet those who disagree, and I also argue with them. However, we cannot escape the fact that, in the long-term development line in Sweden, the proportion that is in favour of Swedish NATO membership is increasing slowly but surely. I also fully agree with the Minister for Defence that N atod isku ss ionen is different in Finland. There are not at all the same trends as in Sweden. Having said that, however, there are some differences between me and the Minister for Defence. I do not believe that all security policy doctrine started with the change of government in 2014. What happened then was that the new government changed the line. It is just as it has been said and as it also says in some texts: Sweden is not part of any military alliance. That is factually correct. It's not valuing; it's a description. Sweden is not in any military alliance today. Then you can regret it, like me, or think it's good, like Peter Hultqvist and Björn Söder. What was done in 2014 was the introduction of a former Social Democratic formulation: it serves us well. It changed the doctrine of security policy without anchoring or deepening it. That is why my question to the Minister for Defence is how he, as a representative of the government, takes the view that there will be a majority of 204 Members who are behind the idea of a Swedish NATO option.
i-925becd649952333-298	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, there was no NATO option before 2014. The freedom of military alliance is what has characterised Swedish policy in this area since we joined the European Union. That is also what we think, on the basis of what I explained earlier in the debate, is right. Then it is well that the government may return to the Riksdag in the event that such a decision is made. But for me and for the government, that is what is stated in the Declaration of Government and the Declaration of Foreign Affairs, and that is the direction of the government. I believe that the arrangements for what has happened in recent weeks also contribute to a wide range of questions about this. No one can deny that this was a forced process, and it is not the case that the Defence Committee has proposed any NATO option. This is something that has been added – you arrested the bird in flight when it appeared, and then you drove through it. If one had had an ambition to have some broader reasoning, if it had been an ambition, then perhaps one would have contacted our edge in a different way. But now it was not so, but now the bird was caught in flight. You bring this up to Parliament, and we'll see what happens tomorrow. That is how it is, Wallmark, and I do not think that is responsible action.
i-925becd649952333-302	Mr President, I would like to I think that the first minute of the defence minister's reply was good, because it was probably the most constructive thing that has been said so far: that the government may come back if a parliamentary majority tomorrow agrees with the idea of a NATO option. I think it's wise. I think it is right for the government to come back then. Mr President, I would like to Let me also comment on what the Minister for Defence says, and which Allan Widman also touched on all the various forms of cooperation and agreements that were concluded. I think that's basically good. I have no other opinion. However, I think we should remember what the investigator Bertelman, Ambassador Bertelman, warned about: that Sweden currently has no of the advantages that membership carries but shoulders the disadvantages. That is the danger with the kind of policy and line represented by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Defense says you should build a kitt, and that sounds good. What is the problem and the challenge for him and the Social Democrats, Mr President, is that it has not been tried. We can hope, we can believe and we can want, but we can never know that there is a line that holds. It is only membership that can give us the knowledge. Everything else is hope and faith. Five years ago, Peter Hultqvist's party, the signatory's party and some parties entered into a defence settlement. One of the effects of this was that there would be an investigation into cooperation, including with NATO. It has received great praise, Krister Bringéus's investigation. The problem is that after the investigation, the government has put it in the drawer. So I think we should value the first minute of Hultqvist's reply, not the second.
i-925becd649952333-308	Mr President, I would like to After all, Wallmark is one, if I am going to use that word, strategic debater. He has taken his Muf courses and learned these questions. It may be that you sometimes overinterpret things that are said. Other times it's about deliberately trying to contribute to division. And it's about putting your opponent in a bit of a bad light. I say we have to come back, because of course we have to come back. That's how the rules are. We will come back and react to this on the basis of the existing regulatory framework. But I have not given any commitment that the government will change its political course. I have said that the foreign declaration is valid and that the government declaration is valid. I just want it clarified so you don't try to spread another picture here. I hope not, and I don't believe. However, in today's reality, if anything happens in Sweden, in the Baltics, in Finland or in Norway, we are affected with immediate effect, all of us. I have said this before: the cooperation we are building is not therapeutic; it is reality that is about creating a higher threshold together. On the other hand, our geopolitical situation, our historical tradition and the architecture of security policy are such that it is better to build on it than to engage in experimental activities, and a NATO option is an expression of the latter.
i-925becd649952333-312	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear the change of line that just took place here between the Minister for Defence and Left's representative Håkan Svenneling. I am not sure that I heard that the security policy line, which has been in place for a very long time, was made clear by that shift in line. This is an issue that the government should also consider. Of course, Sweden makes its own decisions without pressure. But, Mr President, I wonder if the Minister for Defence has heard anyone say that a Swedish NATO option would upset the security policy balance. I heard the Minister of Defence say that Russia has acted and is acting in our neighbourhood in a way that upsets the balance that has existed. Is it not reasonable, Mr President, that Sweden can act like Finland without disturbing a balance? How would a Swedish NATO option upset a balance? Who will judge by it? Is that Russia? Is it Finland? Is it Germany or America? Has anyone else said just that? Or is it the balance of the government that is being upset?
i-925becd649952333-316	Mr President, I would like to For example, we act in the building we do on the basis of the parliamentary decision we have from 2015. The total defence bill we have now submitted to the Riksdag will form the basis for the further construction in the future. That is the platform for politics. Then I do not think that we can interpret either one or the other in relation to the Left Party, more than we have different views on a number of points. I guess it's better to get it said, 'cause that's the way it is. Then there is the same approach to membership and the same approach to the option. But we have different views on a lot of other things. We're acting because the Russians are doing what they're doing. That is why we are putting forward proposals for the continued upgrading of military capabilities, continued cooperation that will also be deepened with, among other things, coordination of operational planning with a number of countries and further deepening with Finland. That's the very reason we're doing what we're doing. We are acting on the basis of what has happened in our neighbourhood. There is a 25-year predictability in Finland's option. It is part of their signal performance, just as part of our signal effect is that military alliance freedom is the foundation. That is what we are starting from when we do all of this that we are now going to take a position on. If you start to pick and change in these pieces it affects, as I have tried to explain before, the view on Sweden and creates questions about where we are going. My picture is that this is part of bourgeois parties wanting to move us closer to joining NATO.
i-925becd649952333-321	Mr President, I would like to It's exciting. The construction from 2015 was also a total defence bill that did not have a broad support for security policy. We supported the second part; at that time, as at present, we did not agree on the security policy part other than precisely with regard to the paragraph dealing with what became Mr Bringéus's investigation. This also came after an investigation by Bertelman. Both these investigations chose the government to add acta without action and without any political discussion. The government has, in our opinion, been tone-deaf in presenting for the second time a security policy part of a total defence bill that does not have broad support. Then, of course, one can consider what broad support is. Does the government understand that there is broad parliamentary support for such action if the Riksdag makes a decision tomorrow that means that we want to see Swedish action for a Swedish NATO option like Finland's – it's not about membership but about a NATO option – or will the government do the same as with Bringéus and Bertelman's investigations and just leave the matter alone? When we act, Mr President, it is good that this does not upset the balance that the government is so keen to see that a NATO option would upset it. It is exciting, Mr President, what is the balance that the government weighs against.
i-925becd649952333-324	Mr President, I would like to I have explained the balance discussion a number of times, so I do not go back to it. An important part of the previous defence policy decision– I said it was broad, and I was convinced that the Centre Party and other parties shared that view – was precisely the development of the various agreements and cooperations. In any case, I understood that we were fundamentally in agreement on this. I just want to say it properly so that Kerstin Lundgren's speech is not perceived as something that was not worth anything, because here I really felt a broad consensus. As I said, we have different views on the NATO issue, and we have also explained this here. We will – I say it once again – formally return to Parliament in accordance with the regulatory framework for responding to announcements. But what applies to the government is what has been said in the government declaration and in the foreign declaration; that is the basic direction.
i-925becd649952333-328	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Defence previously asked a question that was not answered. The question was: why a NATO option now? The simple answer to that question is that there is now a majority in this House for a NATO option. The Swedish Democrats no longer support the government's security policy line. The Minister of Defence also explained that Sweden has in principle as many bilateral agreements on defence cooperation as there are members of NATO, and the Social Democrats have shared a collectivist tradition. My first question is whether it is operationally as effective with 30 bilateral agreements as with NATO membership. My second question concerns the fact that I claimed that we are now establishing ourselves in Falun, Sollefteå and Östersund, among other things, in order to facilitate help from NATO and closest to the United States, who have troops there. Is this statement correct or not?
i-925becd649952333-332	Mr President, I would like to Widman knows that I have said it myself; it was one of the foundations of the decision on the regiments when we discussed it. It is clear that this is linked to a support from the west side – it is nothing to hymn about. It's part of our planning. Much of the decision that lies is based on precisely that we should be able to maintain an initial battle in order to wait and be able to receive help. The HNS agreement, which we adopted in this House, was also part of that strategy. I myself was deeply involved in this handling and took much of the debate. I also felt that there was widespread disinformation in this context. Our line is cooperation from a military non-alignment base combined with increased military capabilities; that is the whole idea behind government policy here. I understand that it's like Widman says-- it was now the bird flew, and then they arrested it in flight. The Swedish democrats changed their minds on the grounds that they have explained, and then they tricked it. However, there was no discussion over any block border in this context. I have tried to explain why we do not see a NATO option as a good way forward. It is about the security architecture that has been built in our part of Europe. There are differences of opinion here, and you have to respect that. I have explained our view, and that is where we stand.
i-925becd649952333-336	Mr President, I would like to I had two questions. The question that was not answered was whether it is operationally as effective as 30 bilateral agreements– I suppose they are a little individual– as with NATO membership. Otherwise, I was very pleased with the Minister for Defence's explanation of the places of establishment.
i-925becd649952333-337	Mr President, I would like to As far as bilateral agreements are concerned, Mr Widman is right to say that they are different in nature. Some are quite general, others are very proper – for example, the agreement with the UK contains over 40 points. We also have a very comprehensive agreement with Finland. What I think is important strategically now is that we clarify the point I read here that we have operational planning with Finland and then have the ambition to coordinate planning with a number of countries. This gives the agreements room for, and in particular we can get pressure in that process after a parliamentary decision. It is a very strategic part to get a good continuation of the agreements. I am glad that I feel that we have broad support in Parliament on this point. This can be done from a military non-alignment position.
i-925becd649952333-339	Mr President, I would like to The military freedom of alliance serves Sweden well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Sweden builds security together with others. The security policy of solidarity is the basis of our security and defence policy. It is a Swedish interest to protect and strengthen solidarity and integration within the EU and to maintain a peaceful, stable and predictable neighbourhood, anchored in European and Euro-Atlantic structures. Threats to peace and to our security are best avoided in community and cooperation with other countries. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack affects another country in the Nordic countries or the EU. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. This is a political direction that this government will safeguard. The government's view is that Sweden's security policy line should be long-term and predictable and characterised by continuity. Sweden has therefore so far taken a broad consensus on security policy decisions. Mr President, I would like to The European security regime has been fundamentally challenged as well as the standards, cooperation and institutions that form the basis of European security. The broad concept of security, the multilateral rule-based world order, including international law and common commitments to human rights, democracy and the rule of law are increasingly being called into question. The Russian aggression in Georgia and Ukraine shows that Russia is violating the European security regime and is prepared to use military means to achieve political goals. This behaviour is a violation of the fundamental principles and rules of international law on which the European security regime is based. The proposal is clear that the security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and Europe has deteriorated over time. Sweden's neighbourhood is increasingly characterised by a greater presence of military forces and increased military activity. The government is closely monitoring developments in our neighbourhood, including the events in Belarus. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. Northern Europe, including the Baltic Sea region and the Arctic, is a strategic whole. I would like to point out that Sweden's security policy situation is also affected by a broader threat picture, such as hybrid threats, cyber attacks, cross-border terrorism and the effects of climate change on peace and security. Our ability to deal with antagonistic threats in peacetime needs to be improved. Vulnerability needs to be reduced, and operations of importance to Sweden's security need to strengthen their security protection. The government has therefore taken the initiative, among other things, to establish a new authority for psychological defence and a new national cybersecurity centre. The Government stresses the importance of being able to act together to meet challenges and threats both in peace and at increased preparedness. This means being able to use all the security policy instruments at our disposal in a coherent way in order to safeguard Swedish sovereignty and Sweden's interests. Mr President, I would like to We cannot accept that the European security regime is being undermined or replaced by another where the use of military force as a political means does not have consequences or where so-called spheres of interest are in fact accepted. This is an important issue, including for our national security. The Swedish Presidency of the OSSE in 2021 is an important platform for maintaining the European security regime and strengthening cooperation around, among other things, increased predictability, military confidence building and the broad concept of security. In the OSSE, the issue of women, peace and security is also central. The issue of equality will permeate our entire Presidency. However, due to the lack of consensus on these issues, it does not seem likely that in 2021 we will have any forward-looking decisions in the area of gender equality. Instead, we will work by influencing the OSCE institutions in the work on the ground, at the negotiating table and at the field conference. I will also appoint a special representative who will work on gender issues. We continue to deepen our cooperation with the Nordic countries, especially Finland. Nordic defence cooperation shall include peace, crisis and conflict. This approach is also the basis for the enhanced operational defence cooperation between Finland, Norway and Sweden. An in-depth security policy dialogue between our countries is important to underpin military cooperation. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy platform. Sweden's EU membership forms the basis for the unilateral declaration of solidarity and solidarity policy. In the light of international developments, it is important for Sweden to safeguard and strengthen cohesion, cooperation, solidarity and integration within the EU. The UN has a central role and gives international legitimacy to the management of conflicts in the world. The principles and rules of intergovernmental cooperation set out in the UN Charter form the basis of the global collective security system. A strong transatlantic link is crucial for the security of Europe and Sweden. In the overall bilateral relationship between Sweden and the United States, defence-related issues have an important role to play. It is of the utmost importance that Sweden maintains and further deepens the bilateral relationship with the United States. NATO is a key player in European security and integration and in international crisis management. NATO is the main forum for broad security policy dialogue between the US and Europe. Sweden will continue to develop and deepen cooperation with NATO in the framework of the partnership. Mr President, I would like to There is now a proposal from the opposition for a so-called clear NATO option. The government's view is that Sweden's security policy line should be long-term and predictable and characterised by continuity. To change or create a lack of clarity on the Swedish security policy line at short notice risks undermining the credibility of Swedish security policy. Sweden has so far dealt with this type of security policy by seeking as broad a political consensus as possible. It has been a strength for our country and an asset in relation to our world around us. On the contrary, as now, without consultation and preparation and with a simple majority vote, trying to change this line risks creating uncertainty and unwanted speculation about further changes. This is not in Sweden's interest. We are already seeing clear evidence of the uncertainty it may create. This has led to speculation in a wide range of international media from countries such as Finland, the United Kingdom, France, the United States and Russia, which immediately tried to interpret Sweden's security policy line and whether we are now approaching NATO membership. For example, the Russian media published an article entitled: The Swedish Parliament is taking a decisive step towards defence alliances with Finland and NATO membership. Let me conclude by saying that the government is keen for consensus to continue to prevail on security policy issues. All of us in this House are fully aware of the differences that exist in the view of NATO, for example. I also have great respect for the arguments put forward here today. However, the issue of Sweden's security is too important to allow fragmentation. It is of the utmost importance that we can show the Swedish people and the outside world that Sweden's security policy is solid, long-term and reliable. It is also a position that governments, regardless of their political domicile, have had for decades. I hope that we can return to such a consensus.
i-925becd649952333-358	Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister quotes from the bill, which in turn quotes the Defence Committee's report, two cardinal sentences: Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. That is excellent, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to Let me just remind you of the Folk och Försvars konferens in Sälen January 2018, where both the Prime Minister and then Minister of Foreign Affairs undermined that very wording. They devalued and rejected it. That is why it is gratifying and a strength that, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs called for, there is a broad consensus behind it. All parties in the Defense Committee except the Left Party have supported it. It gives ground under its feet. The Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about long-termness and broad support and then says that the military freedom of alliance serves Sweden well. When, where and how has this line been chiseled, given the long-term perspective and broad support, by the parties of the Riksdag? The truth is that it is something that the government, or above all the Social Democrats, concocted when they took the government power in 2014. In addition, today's debate has shown that at least six parties are opposed to the security policy line. From and to when the Green Party spoke, one might think that there are seven parties against. If you talk about long-termness and broad support, how does Ann Linde explain the government's own actions? If it is the case that the Parliament supports this with the NATO option, it corresponds to 204 members. Those opposed to the NATO option are 143 members. Then, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who represents the government: how does the government intend to deal with this?
i-925becd649952333-363	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's security policy line is fixed as it has been expressed in the Government Declaration and in the Foreign Declaration. We haven't changed our mind. Our view is that Sweden's security policy line should be long-term and predictable and characterised by continuity. We believe that our military freedom of alliance has served and served us well and that it contributes to security and stability in our part of Europe, as the Minister for Defence repeatedly explained. The Government will of course respond to the Riksdag's announcement according to the procedures that apply to this.
i-925becd649952333-366	Mr President, I would like to Then I will say this: Take this as a chance and an opportunity to chisel this long-termness and this broad support in the Riksdag! The security policy line to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs returns, that military alliance freedom serves Sweden well, is therefore not based on any anchoring. The security policy line to which you refer is, at best, supported by two of the eight parties in Parliament. In the worst case, when you listen to the Green Party, it has the support of a party in the Swedish parliament. This is an opportunity and a chance. It is also good and in Sweden's interest that we get this NATO option, and that we can thereby join the security policy line with Finland, a country that has had its own NATO option since 1995. There is still opposition among many parties in the Finnish parliament and the Finnish government to the idea of NATO membership, as well as popular opposition, but still this has been done with the NATO option. I therefore believe that there is an opportunity here, Mr President, for the government to see whether there are conditions for developing a long-term security policy line with broad support in Parliament. What we now refer to when we say that the military freedom of alliance serves Sweden well is the only one. On the other hand, and I really want to acknowledge that, it is excellent that the government, which, a few years ago, openly confronted the description of the Defence Committee, is now making it its own. It's a force. It is in the right direction, even if it happens to annoy the Left Party.
i-925becd649952333-371	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I am genuinely surprised at the way in today's debate this rapid proposal for a NATO option has been compared with the Finnish NATO option for 25 years. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are based on a completely incorrect premise, namely that the so-called Swedish NATO option would change or affect cooperation with Finland. Like the Minister for Defence, I have long and deep talks with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland. There is nothing to say that Sweden would improve their option, as the committee believes. I'd say that's more like it. It is not for Sweden to express itself about Finland's options.
i-925becd649952333-373	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's security policy line is firmly established from the 2015 Foreign Declaration. Threats to peace and security are best avoided in community and cooperation with other countries. Sweden is not a member of any military alliance and so it was written. Now I hear that the military freedom of alliance serves us well. Mr President, I would like to I hear a different expression from what was in the 2015 Foreign Declaration. I wonder, of course, whether this is an expression of the long-term attitude expressed by the representatives of the government here. Mr President, I would like to A solid, long-term and reliable security policy is, of course, important. Ultimately, the government is responsible for ensuring that it receives this support. The bill presented in 2015 did not provide this broad support. We agreed and had negotiated the paragraph on the investigation, which then became Bringéus's investigation. In 2020 we sought to see if it could be found, because Värnkraft had created a pretty good foundation and found language that could handle these issues. But see, Mr President, the government was not interested. Of course, we will then consider whether this is an expression of the long-term and solid basis that the government wants to see. There is a lack of clarity. How has the government sought broad support for its line in Parliament, Mr President?
i-925becd649952333-377	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Kerstin Lundgren says: Sweden's security policy should be based on stability and long-term sustainability and on any fundamental changes in our line to take place with as much parliamentary support as possible. We see that this is and is perceived as a fundamental change. I have so many articles– I even have them with me here – with questions from all countries around the world that are now saying that okay, Sweden might be moving towards NATO membership. This is not good for our security. It is not good that we should deal with security policy issues with hopeful majorities in Parliament, but we should have a broader consultation here. As far as I know, there was also no sharp proposal in the Defence Committee for a NATO option, even if there were discussions. Therefore, this also comes very quickly and without a broader discussion of what it would actually mean for the view around the world on where Sweden's security policy is going.
i-925becd649952333-381	Mr President, I would like to As I said, there have been different wordings from the Social Democratic governments in foreign security declarations and declarations of government over the years. I therefore believe that the government needs to think about the overall soundness and the long-term perspective. Mr President, I would like to I have heard that the government perceives that a Swedish NATO option, that is to say that we would do as Finland, would upset the balance. So it is not a question of seeking membership, but we would value the opportunity and say that we reserve the right to do so. Without reading newspapers from all over the world, I wonder how the balance in our region would be disturbed by such an option. I hope, Mr President, that the government will adopt an approach based on the Parliament's decision tomorrow, which will show that it will hear Parliament's broad statement and call. I hope that we do not choose to respond to this announcement by one, we have done nothing, we are not going to do anything, we do not share the view. The government would then once again show that it is not seeking the long-term, solid support for the security policy that Sweden is going to conduct, but that it is content to discuss internally and not seek broad support. I very much hope that the government does not do that, because then there will be a completely different discussion forward.
i-925becd649952333-386	Mr President, I would like to It is constantly referred to the fact that there was a consensus in the Defence Committee. It is strange, then, that no concrete proposals were made there, but that a proposal of this kind is to be slapped up a week before decisions are to be taken. When it comes to the difference between Finland and Finland, there is a huge difference. First of all, we have not received any signals from Finland whatsoever that such a change in Swedish security policy would be in demand. Contrary to what you claim, Kerstin Lundgren, our conviction is about a predictable and consistent Swedish security policy, not least in terms of our relationship with NATO and what it means. Is this a step on the road to membership? This is what speculation is all about. We believe that we are acting through political action, not by dividing. There is a significant difference between the NATO option and Finland. Their line has been in place for 25 years. You know what it means, and you know what it does not mean in Finland. In the case of Sweden, it is something new that has been proposed by five parties, of which at least four are in favour of NATO membership. This cannot give rise to anything but speculation.
i-925becd649952333-389	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so clearly stressing what we said in the Committee on Defence, namely that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. In fact, I was the one who put the question to the Foreign Minister's representative up in Sälen in 2018, and she was not at all comfortable with it and seemed not to know that it was something that we had negotiated in a broad majority and that all parties except the Left Party agreed on. It's good that we have that part in place now. It is also very good with all the collaborations that the Minister for Foreign Affairs listed. Mr President, I would like to I would like to come back to the question: in what way is a NATO option harmful to Sweden but apparently perfectly all right for Finland?
i-925becd649952333-391	Mr President, I would like to It is about Finland having had a NATO option for 25 years. Their security policy is based on their history, on their geographical location and on the fact that everyone knows what a NATO option means or does not mean. In Sweden, a NATO option comes quickly. It is the bourgeois parties who want to join NATO and who are supported by the Swedish Democrats. Why can't we just speculate about it? This means that the outside world sees us as changing our position on whether to join NATO or not, without any broad consensus or discussion as to whether this could affect the balance and the puzzle that the Minister of Defence talked about. That is why there is so much difference compared to the NATO option that exists in Finland. Finland has written in its statement on foreign and security policy: a national freedom of movement and choice are the foundations of Finland's foreign, security and defence policy. This includes an opportunity to ally militarily and apply for membership of NATO. Decisions are always reviewed in real time taking into account changes in the international security environment. The interoperability achieved by the cooperation ensures that no practical obstacles to possible connectivity arise. They have had this for 25 years, but we would change very quickly without having all the big parties with us. This would be seen as a step towards NATO membership without any prior change. This is what gives rise to speculation, and that is why it is worrying. That's the difference.
i-925becd649952333-394	Mr President, I would like to I'm not really making ends meet. I hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs talking about a deteriorating security policy situation and that a lot has changed. I do not understand why it would not be natural to take the step. We seem to agree that it is good for Finland and that it raises the threshold for them. That should be obvious. It's double standards. I have an eight-year-old at home. I think she'd say this is like the emperor's new clothes. It doesn't make any sense. On the one hand, we do not find words to explain how important cooperation is, that we should develop it and that America is our most important partner, but, on the other hand, when it comes to understanding and explaining what it is that makes a NATO option good for Finland, it becomes wonder for clarity. Then it is something that strengthens security, but for Sweden it becomes too terrible, as I think the Foreign Minister put it in Report. I'm not making any sense. I do not think that is in line with reality. This was something that we discussed very clearly in the Defense Committee. Now, it turns out, there is a clear majority. The Government is given a chance to answer the question: How would a NATO option be harmful to Sweden but apparently perfectly okay for Finland? I also wonder: how does the government intend to react to the fact that, probably tomorrow, there will be a clear majority in the Swedish Parliament for a NATO option?
i-925becd649952333-397	Mr President, I would like to Everyone, even an eight-year-old and Mikael Oscarsson, can look in a mapbook and see what the boundaries look like for Finland. Everyone can read a history book and see what a difference there is between Swedish and Finnish history. Everyone should understand that there is a big difference between having for 25 years an explicit NATO option, like Finland, and not having it, like us. We have built our security policy in other ways, as part of the whole puzzle, to get as much security as possible in our part of Europe. Mikael Oscarsson interprets what would be good for Finland or not and how an option for Sweden would affect, strengthen or weaken Finland's option. In fact, I think that this is something that is happening in Finland – that Sweden would come and say: If we do this, your situation will be better, and then you will be much safer. I do not think so at all, but I think they are very pleased that they have predictability, stability, continuity and incredibly close cooperation. At the same time, we are working closely with NATO now without the need for formal membership, which would cause speculation, concern and increased uncertainty. That is my conviction.
i-925becd649952333-400	Mr President, I would like to Three weeks ago, the Constitutional Committee presented its review report. It deals with all KU notifications made in the Riksdag. One of the complaints dealt with was my notification of the Foreign Minister's statement in DN on 11 October 2019 on armaments to Turkey, where she claimed that it could be fire blankets and first aid equipment. It was also a statement that exports cannot be made to states that are in conflict. The Constitutional Committee stated in its report that the statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs were incorrect and that a clear starting point for a minister's statements is that they should be correct. This was noted by a united Constitutional Committee. It is, of course, important that what is said is correct and not perceived as the foreign minister trying to mislead those who listen or minimize problems. Sometimes it may be that the Minister does not have knowledge of what you speak about and that you then have reason to learn something new through the KU's reviews. This year, the Foreign Minister has been taught that fire blankets and first aid equipment are not weapons of war and that there is no absolute ban on the export of war material to states that are in armed conflict with another state, even if that is the intention. It is nice that the KU can then be helpful and that you have a small educational purpose. I wonder: Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs taken the impression of the KU's remark, and has she learned anything new about Swedish arms exports? I also wonder: Why did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do nothing to correct the wrong statement in one of Sweden's largest newspapers?
i-925becd649952333-404	After all, we are discussing the direction of security policy and not the KU review report. But the Secretary of State may comment.
i-925becd649952333-405	Mr President, I would like to Of course, correct statements should be made. I am glad that Håkan Svenneling is almost childishly happy about this success and constantly emphasizes it. I just lie down flat. I'm sorry I said wrong! I now know that fire blankets are not part of this, and I will not repeat that they do. Thank you very much, Håkan Svenneling, for drawing our attention to my error! I'll try to express myself as accurately as I can. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the KU points out when you say wrong.
i-925becd649952333-406	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister very much for his reply. As a Member of Parliament, you can be satisfied with the small successes. If you have managed to get a little reprimand from the Foreign Minister, you have to be satisfied with that. I thank her for taking this on board. Now comes the link with security policy, Mr President. Sweden exports arms to 58 countries around the world. In a security policy context, arms exports are important. We cannot export weapons to states that we believe could come to war with us or in any way conflict with us. But it is also the case that we do not want to export weapons that create conflicts or increase tensions around the world. I wonder how the Minister for Foreign Affairs sees a relatively large number of states to which Sweden exports arms. We can make a comparison with, for example, aid, which is not under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but under her department. You talk about directing it, focusing it, and so on. I am concerned that the willingness to export arms is so great that one ensures that many actors and countries around the world are found and that it does not help to strengthen Swedish security policy; there will be more weapons in the world, increased tensions and conflicts that then lead to armed conflicts at worst. In order to take a clear example and put it into practice, I would like to mention an area which, in itself, is outside the scope of security policy. It is not mentioned in the Security Policy Report or in the Bill. What I am thinking of is Colombia, where war has been waged for a long time. The government has declared that it now wants to sell Jas 39 Gripen there. It is clear that Colombia has conflicts with its neighbour Venezuela. This leads to increased uncertainty and instability in Latin America.
i-925becd649952333-411	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we would have had a much better situation if there had been no need for weapons at all, if there had been peace throughout the world and if there had been no need for arms exports at all. But that's not how the world looks. Then you have to ask yourself the question: do we need a defence? We answer yes to that question. We even need to strengthen the defense. We are increasing our defence spending by nearly 40% over the next five years, because we have seen that it is a more troubled world. And if we want to increase our own defence possibilities, then other countries must also reasonably be allowed to have weapons so that they can defend themselves. Our export regulations are among the toughest in the world and are perhaps the toughest. We should not export to countries where, for example, you have very large human rights violations or are in direct war. Should we then refuse other countries to buy weapons from us and refer them to Russia, the United States or any other country because we do not want to do so on the basis of our strict regulations? I think that is wrong. I think it is positive that you can choose to buy weapons from Sweden. Sweden has a very strong, good and powerful arms industry so that we ourselves can build our own defence. But Swedish defence is not enough, and then we must export. I do not look at these questions at all in the same way as Svenneling. We can agree that it would have been good if we had not needed this at all. It would have been good if there had been peace. Then we wouldn't have needed any defense at all. But we've made the fences needed around. We let other countries decide for themselves who will sell weapons to them. If they meet the requirements we have, they can buy from us.
i-925becd649952333-414	Mr President, I would like to In order to strengthen the security of our neighbourhood, the enhanced defence cooperation with Finland takes a special position. We Moderates support this cooperation and want to further develop it in all defence sectors. It is primarily the blue combat forces, the marines and the air force, that led this development. The FISE cooperation in the marines, the cooperation between the Amphibious Battalion and the Nyland Brigade and a comprehensive exercise between our air force are examples of the excellent cooperation we have with Finland. Mr President, I would like to If Finland, like Sweden, were to use Jas Gripen E in the future, this would create new opportunities for our cooperation. The conditions for common solutions for logistics, training, common arsenals and maintenance would be greatly improved. We would also have a greater redundancy and a better security of supply in our fighter fleet. Mr President, I would like to Finland must of course choose the fighter aircraft that best responds to the country's security and defence policy needs. But if Finland lands that it is Gripen that is the best solution, we Moderates will work to ensure that Sweden also does everything necessary to have the best possible collaboration between our air forces. I would like to see us continue to develop our defence cooperation with Finland and create the conditions for a common air defence in one form or another. Mr President, I would like to The enhanced defence cooperation with Finland should also include operational cooperation in the event of a crisis and war. This is a new and important step in cooperation between our countries. The logical conclusion of this is that it must also lead to deeper security policy coordination between our countries. Security policy and defence policy must simply go hand in hand. The Finnish NATO option is the largest security policy divide between Sweden and Finland. Finnish representatives have said that the Finnish NATO option has become more important following Russia's attack on Ukraine. It is therefore good that a clear majority in this House now seems to support the fact that Sweden should also include a NATO option in its security policy line. It reinforces and harmonises our security policy cooperation and the equality of our relations when it comes to NATO. Mr President, I would like to The decision to announce to the government that Sweden should introduce a NATO option in its security policy line is, of course, not taken in a vacuum. This should be seen in the light of the new law on operational defence cooperation with Finland adopted by the Parliament in this Chamber on 8 September. But it should also be seen in the light of how the government itself has chosen to manage and formulate Sweden's security policy line. Ever since the government took office on 4 October 2014, it has stated that the military freedom of alliance serves Sweden well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. There are two problems with that wording, Mr President. First of all, it is not anchored in Parliament's parties or negotiated in the Defence Committee. I would like to remind you that during its eight years in power, the Alliance had a negotiated line from the Defence Committee when it came to how it expressed itself on the security policy line. Secondly, there is also no consensus on the substance that military alliance freedom serves Sweden well. This is, of course, quite different from merely stating that Sweden does not belong to any military alliance. The latter description can also be supported by us Moderates. But the Moderates' assessment is that the military freedom of alliance does not serve Sweden well, as it creates uncertainty rather than security about Sweden's actions in conflict and crisis situations above all. As I said, we are not alone in this. Two government investigations written by ambassadors Bertelman and Bringéus have also come to diametrically different conclusions compared with the security policy line presented by the government. Nevertheless, the government has systematically refused to prepare, refer or process these two investigations. They've been put in a drawer at the Government Office. The government's own enthusiasm for seeking support and consensus on the design of the security policy line with the opposition has been very limited. Mr President, I would like to It will therefore be misleading to say that military alliance freedom serves us well, when it is no longer defining how we focus security policy or dimensioning on how we shape our defence. I have respect for those who do not believe that Sweden should join NATO, although I do not share that view. However, I think it will be highly contradictory to pay tribute to military alliance freedom almost as a virtue and to say that it serves us well, while the whole structure of the war organisation is now based on the fact that we are to receive military support from NATO countries, as the Minister for Defence also said. Mr President, I would like to Today's debate shows that we now need a deep, thorough and unconditional discussion about Sweden's security policy line, including the military freedom of alliance, our relationship with NATO and a Swedish NATO option. Such a discussion, Mr President, must be based on a serious analysis of our military geography, the realities that this entails and the Swedish interests that we have to manage.
i-925becd649952333-426	Mr President, I would like to I've received a lot of text messages asking how the debate is going to happen, strangely enough. I would like to add a few seconds to say to those who may be listening that it is a composite committee. Those who are representatives of the foreign policy aspects of the issues have now spoken as group leaders and spokespersons, and we can also take part in our views. The debate after this is focused on civil defence and military defence, if anyone asks. The Swedish Democrats have not changed their minds. Irrespective of what some newspaper writers say, Mr President, we still have the same view. You think we've made a transfer – in what? We have made a statement that is consistent with our policy, and that policy is that in the long term – as we said in the past – we want to enter into a defence alliance with Finland. That is our quest. From this perspective, it can be seen that we are trying to formulate something like certain elements of their security policy. We believe that this could be helpful. Had this not come to the table now, it would have been on the table this summer or during the general exercise. We want to make this approach. The purpose of this is exactly what I just said, nothing else. If anyone wonders if we've ended our policy, I'll say no. If there is a majority in this Parliament for accession to NATO, that is not enough, in our view. Then we're going to a referendum. It's our policy, then and now. Everyone writes that we are now making a rapprochement with NATO from the Swedish Democrats is wrong. Let me make a little digression. We have travelled around with the Defence Committee, which in a very meritorious way was led by Björn von Sydow. I would also like to mention Tommy Åkesson. It's not as easy as just snapping your fingers and joining NATO. There are many questions that we answer there. Financially, yes. Democratic. Yes. But we are also looking at how this would affect the security policy situation in the region. Making the Baltic Sea a NATO sea certainly does not promote, I believe, and the Swedish Democrats, security and political development in our part of Europe. Let it be perfectly clear to all who listen to this! Nyamko Sabuni writes: For liberals it is a historic day. For the first time, there is now a majority in parliament that is in favour of Swedish membership of NATO. It will be a day of grief for Nyamko Sabuni. We have not changed our mind in that paragraph. There is also a connection to the fact that we have been hesitant about Sweden's participation in all these major foreign service assignments – Afghanistan, Iraq, Mali. We have given reasons for this. One of the reasons is what the Swedish Armed Forces themselves describe – and it is very serious, as we see it: too extensive and complex international efforts have a negative impact on the defence's ability to build national capabilities. That is the basis of our position. We cannot accept shortcomings in the ability of our own armed forces linked by the Swedish Armed Forces to the extensive international efforts. That's why we say no. Then we have a brief comment to make to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – she has left, but I'll take it anyway. It lists the four authorities to be part of a cybersecurity centre. There, I think the government has missed setting up someone to coordinate the activities. There is a need for a coordination function. And if this is the case, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that equality should shape the work, I think that when you are abroad, in states governed by religious dictatorship, you should behave with the clothes that we wear in Sweden and not dress in headclothes and adapted clothing. When they come to Sweden they would never dream of dressing like Swedish women or Swedish men do. Should equality be taken seriously, then make sure to stand up for what are our values in this paragraph here in Sweden!
i-925becd649952333-437	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the direction of security policy. The Left Party considers it important to have a broad perspective on security policy covering issues such as climate change, pandemics, terrorism and cyber threats. The main security threat to Sweden and the world today is undoubtedly climate change. We have already seen devastating examples of climate change both in our own country and globally, such as large fires, hurricanes, floods and droughts. Climate change can also lead to conflicts, hunger disasters and an increased flow of refugees. These threats do not primarily meet with military means, but require other efforts such as major investments in green change, the expansion of civil defence, the expansion and strengthening of well-being and climate aid. Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party are, of course, aware of the ongoing military armaments in our surrounding world, not least in our neighbourhood. We are very concerned about Russia's aggression against Georgia and Ukraine, in particular, and about the illegal annexation of Crimea. But we are also concerned about the armament and enlargement of NATO and the United States in Europe, which, of course, has also contributed to increasing tension in our neighbourhood. We also see China pursuing an increasingly aggressive foreign policy towards several of its neighbours around the South China Sea and Taiwan. Under the rule of Erdo, developments in Turkey have taken a clear step in the wrong direction. At the moment, Turkey is involved in a number of conflicts, thus creating a more troubled world. We see how nuclear armaments are taking off and how the nuclear countries are modernising them instead of dismantling their nuclear weapons. Mr President, I would like to In this troubled time, strong efforts are needed to stop the armament spiral and to reverse developments in the right direction. Sweden was once a leading voice in the world for peace and disarmament. We can be again. However, in order for us to be a credible voice for peace and disarmament, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen our freedom of alliance. A credible Swedish military freedom of alliance also means that we see the need for a Swedish defence with strong popular support, which has the capacity to maintain control over Swedish territory as well as to meet the various security threats we face and be able to contribute in international efforts to safeguard peace and security. We also see that civil defence needs to be strengthened. Civil defence is an important part of total defence. Over the last few years, we have seen the cracks in our preparedness during the pandemic, with deficiencies in, for example, civil protection, inadequate coordination and non-existent emergency stocks – to give some examples. The government notes that Sweden is not in any military alliance. At the same time, the government does not write anywhere in its proposal about the importance of safeguarding the Swedish military alliance freedom. This is deeply unfortunate and can be interpreted as an erosion of alliance freedom. In order to be able to conduct an independent foreign policy, it is necessary that Sweden is not bound up by military alliances that prevent us from acting on our own. However, Sweden has slowly but surely increasingly departed from a traditional and successful security policy based on military alliance freedom, disarmament, peaceful solutions to conflicts, support for the UN and solidarity with poorer countries. Since we became a member of the European Union, Swedish military alliance freedom has been increasingly eroded. According to the SOM survey from 2018, a clear majority, 60 per cent, of Swedes are in favour of maintaining military alliance freedom. Sweden's military freedom of alliance has served us and our surrounding world well and has contributed to the generation after generation in Sweden being able to live in peace. There is no reason to leave a strategy that has worked so well, has been so successful and has meant that our country has escaped the horrors of war for more than 200 years. In addition, freedom of the Alliance has given us a foreign policy room for manoeuvre that has enabled Sweden to play an important international role in peace and disarmament – when the political will has existed. The Left Party wants Sweden to focus its international security policy on peaceful solutions and on preventing crises rather than advocating military solutions. The role of women in security building and conflict is particularly important because these issues are all too rarely on the international security agenda. We must therefore strengthen work on UN Resolution 1325, which states, among other things, that the increased participation of women in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts as well as in peace-building and post-conflict reconstruction is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable international peace and security. The Left Party sees international cooperation as a necessary and self-evident part of global security policy work. At the same time, we are defending the freedom of military alliance for the same reason. The proximity to NATO through the Memorandum of Understanding on Host Country Support and participation in the EU Battle Groups is at risk of our independence. Of course, adopting a NATO option, which is now being proposed, is quite the wrong way to go. Mr President, I would like to Only laborious work for peace, détente and disarmament brings results in the form of increased mutual security. Swedish defence policy shall aim to build long-term security in our neighbourhood and in our surroundings. This calls for the concept of security to be broadened to include more areas than the military, for us to be an active party to disarmament and peaceful solutions in both the EU and the UN, for us to safeguard our military alliance freedom and for us to build security in a community with our surrounding world. Sweden must sign the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Sweden must tackle to a greater extent the real causes of war and the threats to Sweden and the world posed by climate change and the growing gaps between the poor and the rich. Peace is best built by peaceful means. War is never a solution to conflict. In war there are only losers and no winners.
i-925becd649952333-453	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to make some reflections on the work that many of us have done together over the past few years in the important work of Förs, whose preparation is important. One question for future work is what the world and world order look like at the end of the next period of defence. How does it look like in 2025 and 2030 – and how can it look like in 2035? Security policy is often about what has happened or what we are in the middle of. But how can we predict what will happen and make assumptions that actually dimension our commitments at home in the best way in the long term? Swedish defence policy and Swedish security policy must have a clear and long-term direction – they must go hand in hand. We cannot turn a blind eye to the conditions in our neighbourhood. Five years ago, in the Center Party, when we decided on the direction for this period, how important it is to think about winter ability, to cope with Arctic conditions, throughout the country and also to prepare for the long term. Five years later, the focus is much greater on the challenges and the struggle for the areas up in the north. It is a reality, and it is very likely to continue to develop. There is much to highlight in terms of what has happened these five years and how we have had to navigate gradually. It is not always we see what will happen over a five-year period. So I think it will also be this particular period when so much goes in a direction where most things become more uncertain. Mr President, I would like to The world order tends to become much more authoritarian, and the struggle for resources is increasing. There is a tendency to get into some security policy challenges, but it is clear that there is much that affects how the overall picture is formed. The defence committee has clearly written about what has happened in Russia in recent years in terms of military expenditure. Between 2005 and 2015, defence expenditure in Russia more than doubled in real terms, and the share of the defence budget in GDP increased sharply. The number of ground combat forces in the size of brigades doubled between 2013 and 2016. According to FOI, they are 56 in number. We see new units and weapons systems, intensive training activities, increased preparedness and increased combat capability. Warring in Ukraine and Syria has strengthened the ability to cooperate in combat. There are many points summarising that the direction in Russia is in a certain direction. That is what we need to consider now when deciding on the further development of Swedish defence, both military and civil. Mr President, I would like to Clearly, it is extremely important that we in Sweden find, as far as possible, a common line in security policy. Ultimately, it is the government's responsibility to listen and also to work to find a platform for this. I wish that even more had been done for this day to also form broad support for security policy in all respects. We must appeal for it to move in that direction in the future. I am very grateful that there is now a strong support for a Swedish NATO option and will continue to follow the issue of membership.
i-925becd649952333-466	Madam President, I would like We live in an uncertain time. The threats and risks to and vulnerabilities in Sweden's security have increased dramatically in recent years. The increase in preparedness that the Swedish Armed Forces carried out on the Baltic Sea last autumn and the disturbances that we see in Belarus are just a few examples of this. Today's debate and tomorrow's decision in this House is the end of a three-year process of preparation on total defence, but also the start of a nearly ten-year journey ahead of us. We need to build a stronger defence that both protects Sweden's security and enables us to contribute to stability and security in the immediate area together with our international partners. The moderates' line throughout this process has been clear: no more underfunded defense decisions. We therefore propose that the response should receive significantly higher funding until 2030 than the Government proposes in its proposal. Having said that, Madam President, there is also a broad political consensus on the direction and economy of Sweden's defence in the period 2021 – 2025. This approach is supported by the Moderates. It has been made possible by the fact that last autumn the January parties agreed to add an additional 3 billion by 2025. It was something smaller than what we demanded. On the other hand, these funds were also used to implement important moderate priorities for future defence. Let me take a few examples. The defense radio facility is now receiving extra funds to strengthen the cyber defence and follow the development of combat power in our neighborhood, the air force will be added to long-range cruise missiles that increase Sweden's war-resisting capability and more corvettes will be added to at least maintain our marine capabilities. For this, I would like to thank Liberals for their defence policy spokesperson Allan Widman, who pushed for the solution and consensus on focus and economy in the short term. The Moderates are willing to be part of broad solutions. We will not move the target posts when other parties are willing to approach us, especially in security and defence policy. Madam President, I would like The defence committee has, through solid work, laid the foundations for the defence decision that lies ahead of us. It has always worked from a ten-year perspective. The aim has been to regain lost ground and lay the foundations for a developed defence capability in the long term. That is why the long-term perspective is absolutely fundamental. The Swedish Armed Forces have also asked for a long-term economic perspective, especially for growth for the years 2026 – 2030. It is here, Madam President, that the government is not delivering. In the Defence Bill, the Government sets out a wide range of measures to be implemented during the period 2026 – 2030, but without committing itself to paying the costs. At the same time, the Swedish Armed Forces should be given the task of planning this work. This is exactly how defence decisions are underfunded, Madam President. We have a long tradition in Sweden of escaping into the future. It decides and gives assignments to the Swedish Armed Forces but does not commit to the costs. We Moderates have learned a lesson from this, not least in connection with the defence decision of 2015. In practice, this means that military capabilities, which both a united defence committee and the Swedish Armed Forces have said, are absolutely necessary to deal with the deteriorating security policy situation now stand without funding in this bill. These include new fighting boats for amphibious units, hand-held anti-aircraft for the army, more missiles for the Air Force, new sensors and radar chains, enhanced telewar capabilities, more and heavier equipment for the Home Guard and, not least, small arms and more material for the individual soldiers on the units. Basically, the proposal contains proposals that are estimated to be missing approximately SEK 35 billion to implement. Madam President, I would like To this should be added that the government apparently does not increase the risks associated with the cost of strategic material projects. As early as this week, data on cost increases for the Air Force came in. This has later also been confirmed by the Swedish Armed Forces. Now this seems to be saved in the short term by a favourable price and salary conversion for the Swedish Armed Forces next year. But it is not sustainable in the long term that the Swedish Armed Forces are forced to jump from tuva to tuva in the defence economy. I also see, Madam President, other risks when it comes to costs, not least for marine platforms, and the fact that the basic organisation itself became bigger and more expensive than was originally planned. I therefore do not share the view of the Minister for Defence that this defence decision is based on a solid foundation. Nor will the proposed war organisation be completed by 2030 with the economy that the government divides. All of this is worrying and unsatisfactory. We Moderates have promised that we will be able to finance and implement the Defence Committee's proposals and the ÖB Military Council by 2030, and we stand by them. The Moderates and Christian Democrats therefore commit themselves already in this defence decision to give clear information about the economy. We propose an increase of 5 billion extra in 2026 and an additional 5 billion extra in 2027. This means that, in total, we are spending EUR 35 billion more than the government for the same period, precisely in order to ensure the financing of the implementation of the Defence Committee's proposals as a whole. Madam President, I would like I want to take a look at the defence efforts in our neighbourhood and compare them with the upcoming Swedish initiatives. Next year, five out of eight countries in our neighbourhood will have defence spending amounting to 2% of GDP. In addition, Russia spends twice as much, 4% of the GDP, on defence. Sweden is the country in northern Europe that spends the least share of the total economy on defence. According to Mr Sipri, last year we spent 1.1% on defence, even though we are not reinsured in any defence alliance and although we have to the surface Europe's third largest country to defend. It is precisely this perspective, Madam President, to relate to the defence efforts of other countries rather than to pay tribute to our own relative increases. That is precisely why I think it is misleading when we in the opposition refer to the risks of underfunding and the government says that these are the biggest defence efforts in 70 years. I would just like to remind you that we started from a low level in Sweden. Trends in the field of defence are therefore only relevant in relation to other countries' efforts, and that is what is important and essential. To conclude, Madam President, I see three important divisions in Swedish defence policy today. Firstly, we are five parties which support the fact that Sweden should in the long term have up to 2% of GDP as defence expenditure. It is an important guiding principle for us to keep up with developments in the neighbourhood. Secondly, we are five parties in the Swedish Parliament, soon I think, which is behind the fact that Sweden, like Finland, should have a NATO option in its security policy line. Here I welcome the movement of the Swedish democrats. I respect the fact that they have a different view and do not want to join NATO. But, of course, we shall take all the opportunities to deepen security and defence policy cooperation with Finland. Thirdly, we are four parties which believe that Sweden should become a full member of NATO. A Swedish and preferably Finnish NATO membership would be the single most important decision to strengthen Swedish and Nordic-Baltic security. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 52 by the Moderates and Christian Democrats on the future economic development of defence. Otherwise, I refer to our particular opinion.
i-925becd649952333-492	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that there is a risk that I might exceed the 8-minute speaking time. I shall also begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10, in paragraph 16, from the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like When I entered the Committee on Defence and became a defence policy a few years ago, my first and clearest impression of the Committee on Defence was that it was happy to have a clear focus on details. And I guess that's where the devil sits. On the other hand, there must not be an argument or reason for missing out on the whole. That is why, in my speech in today's debate, I will paint with a slightly wider brush. Right now! This is the name of the Swedish Armed Forces' latest information campaign. It is about what is being done right now to secure peace and freedom in our country. It is about how women and men in the Armed Forces train, practice and cooperate to be prepared. The information campaign illustrates in an excellent way what is to be defended: Sweden and our territorial integrity, but above all our way of life and being, the right to be who you want, think what you want, say what you want and love what you want – the defence of the Swedish welfare model and ultimately our freedom and our sovereignty. Each picture and each tone creates a web of national solidarity, self-esteem and cohesion. That's how people's attachment and defence skills are built. It also pinpoints what defence and security policy is ultimately about: maintaining peace. We prevent threats and risks to our country when we contribute to stability in the international community through diplomacy and politics, with dialogue and democratic decision-making and through cooperation and trade. If decency ends, the equivalent of the economy's loan of cargo resort is at hand, namely the defence, the armed forces and our ability to face an armed attack. Today's challenges and threats to our security are changing, borderless and complex. When previous views on security were based on states and a military threat picture, the concept of security has now been broadened. The threats can be both military and non-military and also from non-state actors. Security policy developments have also deteriorated over time in several parts of the world. Security in Europe and our neighbourhood has been challenged. It places new demands on our defence capabilities. Madam President, I would like Five years ago, in June 2015, the Riksdag debated and decided on the direction of defence for the period 2016– 2020. It was largely a historic event. The reconstruction of the Swedish defence began. This work is now continuing. Instead of an intervention defence, the focus shifted towards national capabilities. Increased preparedness, development of the operational capabilities of the armed forces and planning for a coherent total defence have been characteristic of the 2016–2020 defence decision. Issues related to enhanced international cooperation, not least with Finland, have also been priorities. The defence decision meant a long-term change, or with the words of the moderate member Hans Wallmark in that debate: 中 The time of declining defence appropriations could be broken and substantial funds brought to the defence economy. With the total defence bill on the table, we can now continue on the line. Madam President, I would like The military defence appropriations amounted to just under SEK 45 billion in 2014. Increases in appropriations between 2015 and 2025 represent an increase of 87 per cent in constant prices between 2014 and 2025. During the period 2021 – 2025, the envelope for military defence will increase by another SEK 27 billion. This in itself is an increase in the level of appropriations of more than 40%. This is the biggest investment in military defence since the 1950s. Madam President, I would like We must respect the fact that it takes time to build military capabilities. At the same time, it is very fast to destroy it. For a long time military and civil defence has not been designed or dimensioned to defend Sweden against an armed attack. The defence is now being prepared after the idea of total defence, where military and civil defence are interdependent. It is a principle that goes beyond the emergency preparedness that we have previously organised ourselves from. In the concept of total defence, people's attachment and willingness to defend are central. There is no such thing as a special interest in defence. The single most important task ahead of us is now to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and ensure the collective capability of the total defense. Throughout the military defence, all parts of the war organization need to be strengthened. The proposed developments represent a significant increase in the capabilities of both military and civil defence within the next five and ten years respectively. Let me give a number of examples. For the period 2021-2025, the current two brigade structures shall be organised in two mechanised brigades. In addition, the organization of a third mechanised brigade begins.
i-925becd649952333-504	The submarine division is maintained and developed by an increase in the number of submarines in the war organization from today's four to five. The corvette divisions are maintained and developed by the beginning of the mid-term modification of the corvettes of Visby class.
i-925becd649952333-505	. New equipment will be added to the Home Guard, such as vehicles, sensors and dark equipment. Voluntary engagement is central to our defence will and ability. The number of the Home Guard therefore needs to be increased. The number of conscripts increases to 8,000 to 2025. The total number of posts in the war organization will be 90 000 when the organisation is personally and materially fulfilled. 中 Sweden's cyber capacity will be further strengthened. A new national cybersecurity centre is set up to help raise the overall capacity to respond to cyber threats and effectively support both public and private actors. Madam President, we are facing a historic effort, and with it a lot of challenges such as human resources, infrastructure and cost-effectiveness. There are always risks when growth goes too fast. It is one thing to line up reforms in the orientation bill, and it is quite another thing to implement them, as emerged in the corresponding debate in 2015. That is why one of the biggest challenges is to absorb the major financial contributions. One of the most important tasks of the government and parliament in the coming years will be to follow up on what lies ahead. The importance of a control station in 2023, which can evaluate whether the reinforcement and cost development are in phase according to Parliament's decision on the direction and financial framework of total defence, cannot be underestimated. Madam President, I would like The reintroduction of military service for public defence and civil society, the overall defence planning of all the authorities concerned and the major financial contributions are central to the reconstruction of the total defence. Based on a military alliance-free position, we are building a security network around Sweden. We have deepened bilateral relations, especially with Finland. If Sweden and Finland were to jointly operate Gripen E in the future, this would create new opportunities for our cooperation. Finland must of course choose the fighter aircraft that best meets the country's security and defence policy needs. However, if Finland lands that Gripen is the best solution, we will work to ensure that Sweden also does everything necessary to achieve the best possible collaboration between our air forces. Madam President, I would like With regard to our common security, to defend the sovereignty of our country and our democratic rights and freedoms, we must act both responsibly and pragmatically. Sweden's security policy is too important to be used as a pawn in a party political and domestic political game. The proposal for a direction for military and civil defence for the next five-year period continues in the direction of government and Parliament already took out in 2015. Substantial economic additions, growth at all stages and strengthened abilities strengthen the Swedish security policy line to protect and maintain our way of life – what is our Swedish welfare model. This creates security for the future and safeguards democracy and the rule of law.
i-925becd649952333-514	Madam President, I would like I believe that there is a broad consensus on the merits of the focus on Finland and the Air Force. It's a strength and an asset. I thought, however, that Niklas Karlsson fell into the trap I mentioned earlier. He argued that 2015 was a trend break. Yes, it was a trend break in relation to our own military capabilities. But between 2015 and 2019 the Russian military capabilities grew more than the Swedish ones. In relative terms, we were worse in 2019 than we were in 2015. Russian military capabilities have also continued to increase. This has to do with a delay effect in defence efforts. So I would just like to point out the risk of referring to trend breaks without dealing with the trends of the outside world and instead just looking at one's own ability. Madam President, I would like What I actually wanted to highlight, however, was that Niklas Karlsson touched on cyber security and the cyber security centre. Here we have quite a big and serious problem. We in Sweden are very good at digitalisation – we are third or fourth in the world – but sometimes we are not on top thirty in the world when our cyber security is evaluated. The government has always talked about the importance of getting the cybersecurity centre in place, and the Prime Minister has said so in two government declarations. It was promised that it would be operational in 2020. Last Thursday, the government went out and told us that it is now going to establish the center. It has not been explained where it should be, and it has not made clear exactly what cooperation you will have with the business community – nor how it will work in relation to the Government Office. I find this distressing, and I can only regret that the government has been slow in its actions when it comes to establishing this new cybersecurity centre. This applies not least in view of the fact that all other Nordic countries actually have such a centre in place.
i-925becd649952333-518	Madam President, I would like Let me first make it clear that what we are now doing with Swedish defence capabilities, that we are strengthening Swedish defence, is done by means of considerable funding increases. It is a historic venture; we have not seen it in 70 years, since the 1950s. It is important and necessary in view of what is happening in the world around us. We are in complete agreement on that. As an opposition, of course, one can complain that it is too little, and one can complain that it is too late. It is somehow quite striking nowadays that moderate politicians, when they sit in the Government Office, do not have the ability to carry out what they so badly wanted to do when they were in opposition. The findings of the Moderates after eight years of government are not impressive. Perhaps now, Pål Jonson should not have to take the lead, and I will say that the cooperation we have in the Committee on Defence is very good – not least between Pål Jonson and me – which bodes well for the future. However, I can live quite simply with the opposition thinking that the government is doing too little and that it is doing things too late. I note that the decision on the cyber centre has now been made. It will now be established, and it will start working immediately. It will not wait until spring or summer. Then, of course, it will have to grow. We will need to adjust the direction, and we may also need to adjust some directives – as well as possibly the organisation. But if so, it is a question that the government owns, and it is left to the government to answer. I note that we are now on our way. The direction is set out, and I think it's good. I'll do what I can to help keep a pace as fast as possible in strengthening our capabilities in cyber security and cyber defence.
i-925becd649952333-522	Madam President, I would like Let me return my appreciation for the constructive cooperation I see we have in the Committee on Defence, not least between me and Niklas Karlsson. It's basically good. Then I must admit, reluctantly, that it was over six years ago that the Moderates were in the Government Office. Nevertheless, I think that the government should be responsible for many issues rather than referring to political history. The problems I have with the new cybersecurity centre are actually two additional things that I do not think the government is delivering on. Firstly, there is no clear feed host. We have said from the Moderates that it is very important for the Defence Radio Institute to have the main responsibility for this centre, and it has to do with the fact that anyone who wants to be really good at cyber security must have the ability to combine cyber security, information security and signal intelligence, and only the Defence Radio Institute can do that. Now it seems that the government did not really want to address this issue, and so it landed in a solution where there should not be a clearly identified feed host, as it is usually called – a clearly identified head of the centre. It doesn't bode well. The defence radio institution must be fully involved in the formation of this centre, otherwise unfortunately there will be nothing. I'm sorry the government didn't put its foot down there. Secondly, with regard to the cybersecurity centre, the government should have been more clearly linked to the business community and how to solve it. Today, we have a situation in which almost all socially important activities – whether transport, communications, finance, trade or telecommunications – are in the hands of private operators. If you do not have a clear operating idea for how to cooperate with the private business community, which I do not think the government has presented, the establishment of the centre will not work well enough. That is regrettable. I repeat that all other Nordic countries already have a cybercenter like this in place. It is now up to Sweden to act urgently on this issue rather than to present a proposal for the creation of a centre which was thus promised to be operational by now.
i-925becd649952333-528	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson is, of course, right on one point in his last speech, and that is that it is more than six years since the Moderates have been in government. I'll do what I can to make it take at least six more years before you get there. The Socialist-led government, of course, has to take responsibility for the time it has been in government, that is, for the last six years. My point was that the Moderates act in a different way in government than when they are in opposition. That is the big challenge for moderate politicians. Possibly not primarily Pål Jonson should dress shots for this, but he still represents a party that does not live properly as it teaches. Sure, you can talk about feeders. I can simply say that it is the government that governs the kingdom and that it is primarily a question for it how it chooses to organise this. At the same time, both the committee and the Riksdag have a responsibility to follow and ensure that we are as effective as possible in the cybercenter we are now building. The authorities have visited the Committee on Defence, and in the talks we have had with representatives of the authorities and Directors-General, this has not seemed as much a problem as Pål Jonson wants to suggest. On the other hand, we now note that it is in progress. The direction is set, and the work has begun. Now it is important to follow developments, and sometimes it is also good to recall your own experiences. That is why I shall share one with the House and with Pål Jonson. I did the trick myself as an artiller, and I learned quite early the following about leading fire: The most important thing was not always that you had exactly perfect coordinates on the enemy's target before you started shooting, but sometimes it was more important to get the approximate coordinates – and then you could regulate the fire. Otherwise the risk was that the task ran out of your hands. That's where we're at when it comes to the cybersecurity center: now it's starting, and then we're adjusting. We'll make sure to do this really well.
i-925becd649952333-532	Madam President, I would like We support our reservation number 53. On 1 June 2019, the Defence Committee submitted the last two reports to the Minister for Defence. In brackets, I'll tell you that I still think you're doing a good job, Secretary of Defense. You have invested heavily in the defense in relation to the past – that should be said – and the way you do this is good. You have support from us on many issues and in the way you have developed collaborations with other countries. I want you to feel like you're doing a good job. However, we want to increase the appropriations. We signed up to the Defense Committee's report "Varnerkraft", which concerns the military section. That is what I will concentrate on here and now, and later Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström will touch the civilian part. We thought then, and thought, that what was budgeted would cover defence power. It turned out afterwards that there was a very large amount of money missing for it. When this became known, we found reason to add additional funds and go back to our 2% target, which we started with the previous parliamentary term. By 2030, 2% of GDP will be achieved, and then we are talking about about 120 billion. You have to make an adjustment about 2029 and see where we land, and this is to be achieved by 2030. We are alone in this view, and we maintain it. This is about a long-term perspective for the Swedish Armed Forces. How, then, do we want to do this at first, when there are some uncertainties? This applies, among other things, to civil defence, where there is an investigation. How much money are we gonna put in there? Yeah, we're putting in 300 million more. It has been possible to read in the newspaper that we do not spend any more money, but there is 300 million more for civilians in 2021 and 400 million more in 2022 and 2023. Because it is an uncertainty when the investigation is not finished about the civilian pieces, we are presenting a three-year budget. Parliament's investigation service has checked it. You can move funds between those years when it comes to both defence and civil. What you don't spend now you can use 2022. If you want to move from 2022, you can do it, but in 2023 you have this money to use. Accounting should of course be carried out on a continuous basis. There is a big difference that I would like to mention here. It's very important. I am a little worried about something, and you representatives of other parties can perhaps go up in the debate and answer that. Much is said to be said that, given the developments taking place in the outside world, we are now going to strengthen the defence. I know that the Liberals were one of the parties that invested heavily already in 2017, about in parity with us then. Otherwise, however, I do not have any comments. If the outside world is calm, are we going to start tearing it down again? I've asked that question before, and I don't get an answer. How do you view maintaining a strong Swedish defence over time, regardless of the day-form in Russia or any other attacker we do not know about today? That is our policy, and that is our objective. The most important thing for us is to have a strong Swedish defence over time, and of course a strong Swedish total defence. We are very positive about the change. Some journalist wrote in the newspapers – I don't have to mention who – that we're not telling the truth about the efforts on civilian detention. What he doesn't understand is that you have to look at it in a perspective. We backed up the parts of the Defense Committee. We backed up M resistance in those parts. We presented the same budget as the government did, broadly speaking. Then it turned out that the money didn't exist. There were shortcomings in this. Then we came up with completely new appropriations for this. Now we see our reaction to the information given that there were major gaps in the budget and deficiencies in the financial components. With our policy and with our efforts at the Swedish Armed Forces and the civilian, the Swedish Armed Forces can restore everything that was given priority in terms of the financial framework they received, as we are presenting a budget until 2030, starting with three years here. We want support for that. Then we'll be credible against the 2% target. We are still the only one to set a budget for it. If you read what we have written, you can see that we are investing heavily in the Swedish defence industry. We are the only one to have as our first point to place orders with the Swedish defence industry. This applies, of course, where there is competence, and it does. There is excellence in many areas. Secondly, this applies to those where the Swedish defence industry can be involved, and thirdly, it is over-the-counter procurement. That priority is clear. I've said it before here. Some have said that this cannot be done, because it is procurement rules. Then I have replied that France places almost all its orders on its defence industry. It's a question of interpretation, I got the answer. Good, then we interpret what France does and take the next question. It is very important to send that signal to the Swedish industry, we think. I would like to mention the investments we are making. You can read about them. I would like to make one point, and it is the Navy. Let's put a lot of money into the army. We think this is a good initiative as the government does. This is absolutely necessary in order to have a new tactical level of management. It was previously called the distribution level, and now it becomes division level. It's needed to lead the war units. We need three brigades and a divisional command. Then there are missing things, as the Armed Forces have said. It's an imbalance with logistics units and so on. With our budget, the Armed Forces don't have to worry anymore. We're restoring the logistics units. I'm not going to list all those parts now. Everyone can read who it is. We will invest heavily in the Navy in the next step. With our budget, there will be two logistics battalions, which were intended. We do not see that there are means to do this. There are vehicles and a lot of equipment to be added in this paragraph. There will also be new corvettes with robot air defense. There we proposed the cambot with a Swedish sensor system, which benefits the Swedish defence industry. It's one of the best systems in the world. I'm pointing it out right now. We fought for two years to avoid a largely out-of-date anti-aircraft system called Patriot. Even the Americans are moving away from it and developing a new system. There are additional systems, and there are Swedish technology that can be implemented in this. Support is needed for combat that may occur at sea. It's not just a land-based battle. Then we need weapon carriers. There was a system called Valkyria. Where did it go? Are the bets on Valkyria gone? It is a system that needs to be exploited, and then really try it. It is a very good system. We also want to develop a computer system for Helicopter 14. It is about a new management system and investments in the navy. We will come back to that. It's very important. With regard to the Swedish Armed Forces' basic organisation, we think it is very good that the government has taken the line that we advocated and that also the Center Party thought was good, if I am not mistaken. Now it will be Sollefteå and Falun. That's very good. In that paragraph, we would also like to mention that Falun is an excellent place to train brigade units. In Sollefteå you can train shooting battalions, such as local defence shooting battalions. This is a very important position, and it is an extremely appropriate place. There's a shortage of officers, and there's a shortage of schools to train officers. With our budget, we greatly enhance the possibility of holding officers who otherwise intend to quit and reinstate officers. We're putting a lot of money into this. We also want to invest in a new military college, and it will be located in Boden. We also want to open a new recruitment office, something we have now said for four years, and it will be located in Luleå on F21. Now I see that my eight-minute speaking time is up. Thank you for the floor, Madam President.
i-925becd649952333-553	Madam President, I would like It is five and a half years since I last had an opportunity to debate Sweden's decision to focus. Then it was 2015, and after a rather proper negotiation we laid down the conditions for the years that we are about to finish, i.e. until 2020. Over the past three four years, the Swedish Defence Committee has worked very solidly, confidently and ambitiously to analyse our external development and conditions at home and also in other countries in terms of both civil defence and military defence. I would like to extend warm thanks to colleagues and employees in the Defence Committee for the very important efforts. I personally have learned a great deal about what is needed to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities. But I have also learned from the rest of you in the work, because we are doing this together in many areas. This must be the starting point when we discuss in the Swedish Parliament the conditions for what should apply in the long term but also in the short term when it comes to regaining and developing military and civilian capabilities. We are living in an increasingly challenging situation. It is not time to wait, but we must do what we can day by day to keep our focus and to prioritise our defence capabilities in Sweden. Since the current orientation decisions, which are valid until New Year's Eve, it is about strengthening the military presence and ability at home. We then added financial resources and expanded the war organization on Gotland with a new regiment and military activities. We have since, in the past years, had to supplement the current orientation decisions several times. We have learned this way that what we see is not always enough. This may also be the case today when we look at the next five-year or ten-year period ahead of us. What we have contributed to and actively negotiated until this day is an extremely important initiative for Swedish defence. We add EUR 5 billion a year to 2025 with the addition of 2024 and 2025 so that, when we arrive at 2025, there will be 27 billion more to military defence. There will also be 4.2 billion for civilians. This is a significant addition, and we have also received in good collaboration control stations and follow-up tools to analyse the state of the economy and the implementation of the decision. Everything that the Defence Committee has negotiated is not in the first stage. But the Center Party's starting point is that the whole of Värnkraft should be implemented. It will require additional resources, and it will do so until 2030 as well. There, our goal is that 2% of GDP should go to military expenditure. Friends! More and more people realize that these issues need priority. This is based on the fact that we can strengthen people's attachment to defence issues, that more people will be involved and that more people will have a relationship with the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. Then increased visibility and increased presence throughout the country is of great importance. Therefore, I am pleased that there is now a clear mandate and a mission to the Swedish Armed Forces in connection with this specialization decision that the war organization will grow further, that there will be re-establishments in previous units and that it will be an expanded organisation with more conscripts. Madam President, I would like Today, we are laying the foundations for long-term continued growth. These are places where there are very good conditions for further growth. We need to get started, we need to establish and we need to develop, recruit and further shape. Madam President, I would like Home Guard units are part of building capabilities throughout the country. We have a broad agreement on new vehicles, on sensors, on night equipment and on additional equipment and efforts to improve the possibilities for the Home Guard. The war organization will grow to 90 000 posts and the number of conscripts to 8 000 by the end of 2025. There needs to be additional support resources. The balance between impact and support units also needs to be developed these years. We decided early on that we needed an increased amphibious activity and location in Gothenburg, that the aircraft flotilla in Uppsala would be re-established and that Arvidsjaur would again become a regiment. We came up with this in the Defence Committee, and work on this could then proceed. It's on the plane. At the end, it has been further to get to the final establishment that is now in this defence bill. It is about getting to infantry activities both in Falun, in Sollefteå and in Östersund. Here we have many great opportunities with shooting fields and previously made investments that we can take advantage of. There is also infrastructure on Frösön to develop aviation operations. It is mentioned and is clearly included in the bill. Another area that the Center Party has fought for, and where we, together with others, have worked hard to make it a reality, is an expanded indirect fire business – that the artillery should be able to grow, that we should regain training activities in southern Sweden and that there will then be a re-establishment with a regiment in Kristinehamn and increased operations in Villingsberg and the shooting field. This is right, and it will allow for increased flexibility and increased redundancy and presence throughout Sweden. We also see that resources in the north need to be increased and that our focus on Arctic environment and winter ability must not stop. The development of the brigade structure is positive and it covers the country as a whole, but more needs to be done and will need to be done. Madam President, I would like There is much to be highlighted in connection with such a comprehensive decision. But what I have seen these years and that I also have with me for the coming years is how important it is that we defence policy can form broad support for why this must be done. This must not only permeate society's different sectors – a total defence perspective should be included in all activities – but the Swedish parliament should also be the bearer of why defence expenditures are increasing and why they need to increase. It is a question of having a constructive and sustainable approach to these issues. There have been a lot of challenges until today's decision. We have seen that it has not always been easy to map out the road. But now we have come this far, and I would like to thank you for this work. I would like to thank the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities for the important work that is being done but also express my expectation that the resources that are being allocated are now being used as efficiently as possible. You should get as much defence capabilities as possible and also in future evaluation work be able to take the steps needed to make all of Värnkraft a reality. We are living in a deteriorating security policy situation. Today's debate and tomorrow's decisions are extremely important in order to be able to meet the global developments in our part of the world. Madam President, I would like This will be a matter of great urgency. I would like to ask for the support of the report's proposals, with the reservation on civil service obligations that we share with other parties.
i-925becd649952333-577	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Hello to all of you who are watching and listening at home! Today we are debating the government's great total defence bill, the five-year decision on the defence and security policy direction for both military and civil defence. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 34, which deals with the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civil society. I will talk about the Left Party's attitude towards military and civil defence. I ask those of you who want to know more about the Left Party's position on security policy and on the freedom of alliance, NATO, nuclear bans and such issues to listen to Håkan Svenneling, who spoke in the previous debate. Madam President, I would like We live in a more vulnerable society. In recent years it has become clear that there are a wide range of civilian threats to Sweden. These are natural disasters in the wake of climate change, various forms of cyber-attacks, divisions between groups in society, attempts to influence and false news – and of course the virus outbreak that has caused the serious pandemic that we are still in. For the Left Party, the goal is always an equal society. We can also talk about this in terms of defence and security policy. We believe that an equal society is a safer society. An equal society is a safer society. The bottom plate of society, the welfare, needs to be strong in order for us to manage and have a good life in Sweden. Madam President, I would like My first point in this speech is that we must have a robust society and a stronger welfare. The Left Party, like everyone else, sees a need to strengthen total defence and to have a strong resistance to various forms of crisis. Strong total defence requires a robust society in all parts and a well-developed well-being that provides resources to manage both daily work and strained situations. How will staff cope with a crisis if you get on your knees even before the crisis has arisen? The pandemic has shown that we are very vulnerable in this. In a serious and long-term crisis, society as a whole is affected. The pandemic has called for priorities, flexibility and transition. Municipal activities with care for the elderly and preschools must always be able to keep going, even in the event of a crisis. My second point is that important social activities must be publicly owned. Privatisations and sales of public services have meant that we can't afford all the activities of social importance in Sweden. Activities will be difficult to coordinate and manage in the event of crises. Public ownership is part of building society robust and secure. One current example is the 5G networks, which are planned now and of course should be state-owned. Socially important activities that are divided into many different actors, perhaps even with foreign ownership, mean that everyone only knows their little bit in society. This makes us very vulnerable. Selling out public and socially important activities is therefore, in fact, putting both the country and the citizens at great risk. My third point, Madam President, concerns peoples and doing things together. The management of major crises requires society to work together towards the same goal. This applies, of course, to all those who work in socially important activities, but also to all those who are voluntarily involved in different ways. The voluntary defence organisations and the Home Guard include people with education, knowledge, commitment and local knowledge. But also in other parts of civil society, such as the Red Cross, sports associations, religious communities and large organizations such as the Scouts, there are many volunteers who can be mobilised in the event of both minor and major crises. We are all very grateful for the support given by civil society during the current crisis and given during the forest fires we have seen and when there were very many refugees in a short time. The assistance of the Armed Forces, the Home Guard and the voluntary defence organisations has been necessary for us to be able to cope with the pandemic in the best possible way. Individuals' own crisis preparedness – having things at home and having knowledge of how to do things in crisis – is also very important. In 2018, MSB sent out the brochure "About the crisis or war" to all Swedish households. Perhaps it should be sent out at regular intervals to keep those knowledge alive. During the coronapandemine, the Swedish Armed Forces have contributed considerable resources, both material and human. We will use all our common public resources in society in the best and most effective way when facing different threats. The Swedish Armed Forces today cannot plan ahead to support society in the event of civil crises and disasters. We would need a change of law about the Swedish Armed Forces' support to society in order for the whole society to be organised in the best way possible. A cornerstone of a popular defence is military service. The Left Party is in favour of compulsory military service for both women and men, and we agree that the number of conscripts must increase. The defence of Sweden is a matter for the entire population, regardless of the background or experience. The conscripts should receive the best possible training, and it is therefore important that there should be a working Council of Obligations, chosen jointly by conscripts, and that all reports of harassment or maladministration should be taken very seriously and investigated so that they are never repeated. We are pleased that there is now a majority in the Committee on Defence to investigate the reintroduction of civil service obligations. This could be another cornerstone of a popular defense. A modern civil duty, for example, would be about education in important matters such as health care, transport or environmental protection. Madam President, I would like My fourth point concerns the organisation of the Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces is a very detailed authority. After all, we politicians are representatives of the public; we are not defence experts in any way. Of course, we learn a great deal, and those who have been in committee for a long time can, of course, do much more. But we must leave the details to the profession – to those who are trained and experienced in managing the business. The policy should point the direction and decide on the budget and laws, but then the profession will solve the tasks. This spring's discussions in the Swedish Defence Committee show that the Swedish Armed Forces' activities are still very much about detailed control. In order for the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to grow as much as we think, it is very important that the agency can recruit, retain and also attract staff back. Employees should be able to feel proud of their workplace. This is a profession that involves risks, and the working conditions within the Swedish Armed Forces must be as good as possible. We also see that wages need to be increased. After reading the Swedish Armed Forces' referrals and listening to the presentations we have received during the spring, the Left Party has landed that we do not want to re-establish regiments in Sollefteå, Falun or Kristinehamn. Starting new operations is resource-intensive, and we feel that the Swedish Armed Forces would rather grow where they already have operations and are in operation. It is likely that regional policy has played an excessive role in the negotiations between parties, and this is not a responsible way of pursuing defence policy. Madam President, I would like My fifth point concerns equality. The Left Party is a feminist party, and it is therefore of course important for us that the Swedish Armed Forces become better at gender equality. The government could well have developed that part of the bill a little better, I think. The proportion of women among conscripts in 2020 is 17%, far from even a minimum definition of what gender equality means. Work is under way to modernise requirements in various ways and to develop clothing and equipment suitable for women. That is a good thing, but it requires that we continue to work on these issues and make it a little more intense. In this context, a tribute should be given to those who work with the Armed Forces' outreach materials, where one is very good at highlighting women. This is important in order to be able to show role models. My sixth point concerns climate change and this very serious threat to global security. Droughts, floods and extreme weather conditions and events present both direct and indirect risks of war and conflict. To work to limit the effects of climate change is therefore to work towards a more peaceful world. Continuous improvements are required in the Swedish Armed Forces' internal environmental work. We have seen, among other things in a recent report from the Swedish Peace Association, that it is quite difficult to follow the internal environmental work due to high confidentiality. The Swedish Armed Forces must be involved in taking joint responsibility for Sweden's expansion of wind power. This is something that is often stopped by the Swedish Armed Forces. The Left Party also demands that the defense exercises in and over Vättern be interrupted. The liquid is an important source of drinking water, and clean drinking water is one of our most important resources.
i-925becd649952333-604	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions. The first is that we are one of the world's most equal societies – I think that is good. But how does the Left Party view the participation of an authority in political trains and demonstrations? The second question is: Is the Left Party, like the Swedish Democrats, for the introduction of civil service right over? My third question is: how does a feminist party view what I was talking about earlier, namely when representatives of the government go to Iran, for example, and dress in a headcloth and clothing adapted to the way in which a religious dictatorship relates to women? When such a country's representatives come to Sweden, they would never dream of dressing as women here do because it is not associated with their view of women. How do you view this as a feminist party? Does it matter at all? My last question, if it is to be included: from a historical point of view, does the Left Party consider the climate change we are seeing to be new? Haven't there always been climate change, even if there is a long way between them?
i-925becd649952333-608	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the questions and will speed up a little so that the honourable Member can get answers to them all. When it comes to going on different types of trains, I think it's up to each authority head to decide. When an authority acts in society, it is important to gain the credibility of the citizens of society it is set to serve. You should not participate routinely but always think about reason and effect. There are many gains in showing, as an authority, that you are a part of society and that the issue is important. At the same time, you shouldn't run around everything just because it's fun. We're in favour of civil service. There is an announcement in the report that we are in favour of and which therefore obtains a majority. Perhaps clothing is not a defence policy issue. As a feminist, however, I mean that all people must be allowed to dress as they please. That is an absolute starting point. When government officials or high politicians go to countries where there are laws about clothing, the balance is difficult. In one of the scales is breaking the law of the country and in the other that you always get to dress exactly as you want. It is a balance that a minister needs to think about. As I said, however, this is not a defence policy issue. Climate change is not a question of defence policy either. But yes, there are climate changes, and they are getting worse because of man.
i-925becd649952333-613	Madam President, I would like This may not be a question of defence policy, but Hanna Gunnarsson highlights this in the debate on defence policy. The Swedish Democrats do not think that every authority should be allowed to decide for itself. We do not think they should be allowed to decide for themselves whether to go to political demonstrations, like pride. It must be totally banned, because it is a political organisation. For example, the Swedish Democrats are not allowed to join such trains or demonstrations. I'm not saying we would, but we're not allowed. That is a political statement, a clear no. There are no laws in Iran that representatives from different governments should dress in their dress. It's an invention. It is not a feminist initiative, and it is directly contrary to their own rules. Hanna Gunnarsson says that we should not be able to do anything but leave it to the officials. If it is not time to replace those who believe it with officials, then you will not have to go over some ignorant politician if there is one? The more knowledge you have on a subject, the easier it is to communicate with representatives of the profession. Clearly, we have completely different views here. You may not know as much, but you should be well aware and not think that you can just wrap over with big phrases without understanding the consequences of the decisions you make. The less you can, the more serious the consequences will be. My question on climate change did not answer anything but that it is happening. My question was: Have there always been climate change in a historical perspective, greater and smaller than those we see now, including ice age, heat waves and more?
i-925becd649952333-619	Madam President, I would like I am talking about climate change as a threat to our society, and that is part of defence and security policy. When we see a threat, such as a large forest fire caused by a warmer climate, we must deal with it. It's a civilian threat, and that's why we're talking about total defense in different ways. I note that the Swedish Democrats would like to be in charge of various authorities. I have full confidence that our Heads of Government, together with their associates, can decide for themselves what to do and what not to participate in. This with knowledge is interesting. As politicians, knowledge of the activities is, of course, extremely necessary. We're not supposed to be in here molding, as an official said one of the first days in parliament, but we need to be out talking to people. There's one thing. It is another matter to decide something in direct contrast to what the profession, which is educated and has experience, advises us to do. As politicians, we have this right. We can thank the authorities for their opinion and then go another way. I think it's bad. Usually it is good to listen to the authorities. Profession may not always think like us, but then it must be that way sometimes. However, it is a balancing process for every politician to decide how much to listen and take advice and how much to run his own race.
i-925becd649952333-623	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Defence Committee's report on total defence up to 2025. I would ask you to accept reservation 52 in paragraph 35. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates disagree with the government on the important long-term funding. In my speech, I will say something about the outside world, something about history and something about the work of the Defence Committee, which has resulted in today's decision. We see a deterioration in security policy on the world stage. There's a war going on in eastern Ukraine where ten people die a month. Although it is low-intensity, we still need to remind ourselves that there is a war going on in Europe right now. There are disturbances in Belarus, we see a tougher Russian practice pattern in the Baltic Sea and Must says that there is an increased risk of confrontation in our neighbourhood where incidents can escalate. It is in this environment that we have to deal with Sweden's security. Let's look back a little in history. During the Cold War Sweden had a strong defence because the defence was fully built long after the Second World War. But like the whole Western world, after the Cold War, we were quick to disarm. The eternal peace rolled into the mindset, and it became strategic timeout and other things. To future generations we therefore want to send along: Don't ever do this again! As the third largest country in Europe, we must have a certain level of defence – on our army, our air force, our marine, our cyber defence and so on. We can't haggle this. It's about as stupid as thinking you're gonna haggle on home insurance. Just don't! Those who are responsible make sure to pay for security. We then build security with other countries, but we must ensure that we do our part. The work of the defence committee began four years ago in January. We were given the task of looking at the world situation and conducting a security policy analysis, looking at what defence exists today and its shortcomings, and putting forward proposals to correct them. So did we. We had an excellent chairman of Björn von Sydow, and we were touchingly agreed on what to do. But for some inscrutable reason in connection with the final summit a year and a half ago, the Social Democrats did not want to be involved in paying. That is not a good idea, Madam President. You have to pay the bills. Then it became a bit different prunes and piruettes, and then the Social Democrats in August last year were prepared, together with the Liberals and the Centers, to make an escalation of 5 billion by 2025. Then came another story with inevitability; there was a lack of money. It's important to pick up a corner pillar here. I think most people understand that tearing down something is quick but building up a defense capability again takes time. There must be a ten-year perspective. Here are our criticisms. The Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, have a reservation. It consists of being able to pay for the defence capabilities we agree on, i.e. until 2025, but for the period up to 2030 the equivalent of 35 billion is missing. That's not good. In the international situation that I started by addressing, Sweden cannot afford underfunded defence decisions or delays. I have a few basic questions to ask the government. If we agree on what is required and what it costs, why wait to tell us about the funding? Why wait three years instead of telling us today? It is not a good idea, and it does not strengthen our credibility. This is our criticism of the decision to be taken. That is why we have reserved ourselves, and we hope to receive full support for funding so that the defence decision can be implemented without delay. Sweden cannot afford an underfunded defence decision or with delays. We have to do our part. I would also like to point out that NATO membership is of the utmost importance. We talked about this in the last debate. Membership would strengthen our security, help our environment and provide predictability, just as investigator Krister Bringéus stated in his investigation four years ago. It's important to see the facts. Sweden is the country around the Baltic Sea that invests the least in defence in terms of bnp. It's not sustainable, and it's not working. It's not gonna work. Therefore, the Christian Democrats, together with several other parties, have stated that Sweden must go up to 2 per cent, and by 2030 it should have happened. Then there is the possibility of fully financing military defence and civil defence. Civil defense is two sides of the same coin. It's very important to expand civil defense. I can mention some examples of criticism, such as the emergency services. We think it is foolish that the emergency services can only be used in war. We should be able to use it for crises as an additional resource. Then there was the question of a cybersecurity centre. We have fought for this, but we do not like four authorities sharing leadership. It's not gonna be good. We want it just like in Britain; the National Cyber Security Centre, which is the world leader in its field. There's an authority that's feeder-worthy and takes charge. The fact that there is now some sort of consensus policy is not good for something as important as cybersecurity. It has been fragmented for far too many years, and this must be strengthened. It's a matter of getting a safe marketplace. It is far too easy today to bring down Sweden on cybersecurity, and so it is a shortcoming that the government has shown a slowness in leadership on this issue. Then there is the proposal to introduce a total defence department. We want the Ministry of Defence to be given the main responsibility for the entire total defense, not for what is now to be divided into several different departments. If there is a crisis, or at worst war, it must be a clear order. It was also something that the Defence Committee included in its proposal. This is part of our criticism. Let me sum up. The world is tougher. We must not repeat previous reductions. The decision that we are going to take tomorrow after today's discussion and our criticism is that the government does not intend to add the money required in the long term for the abilities that are being pointed out. That is not good, and there is a risk of delays. We can't afford that. Then there is our criticism of civil defence. All these issues are important. We must build a defence that creates security for us and the outside world.
i-925becd649952333-643	Madam President, I would like I have a few simple questions. We are in favour of coordinating between the four authorities. That question has already been answered by the honourable Member. We believe it is important to work together, and that is a good thing. But someone has to decide what to do in the end. Then you have to work together to reach the boss' goal. Let me turn to another issue instead. We have said that another military college is needed. We've proposed Boden. Why Boden? An important parameter is that there must be conscripts, schools and premises. How does Mikael Oscarsson view placing a college in the northern part of Sweden? How do Mikael Oscarsson and KD see that government managers are appointed by party book, not by competence? Now it may be a coincidence, but it is therefore a question of appointing heads of government according to competence and not according to party book.
i-925becd649952333-647	Madam President, I would like At first, it was a question of cooperation. I explained the criticism we have. The Christian Democrats and I have been committed to strengthening the cyber defence. During my study visits with the Swedish Defence Committee in different countries, I have tried to obtain information. It has turned out that Sweden is the only country that has so fragmented between different authorities. Today, seven authorities share responsibility. It's not gonna be good. The responsibility goes between the chairs. We've proposed a national cybersecurity center. It comes now, but the problem is that you try to have several different leaders at the same time. That's not good. Someone needs to be a feeder, take charge. Either way, a chairman is needed. That is our criticism of the government. As far as the issue of human resources is concerned, it is a challenge. That was the information we received from the Swedish Armed Forces only a few weeks ago. There are challenges, so we need to strengthen them in different ways. Then I don't know if the answer is that it needs to be precise location. I'm not prepared to get into that. The last question I'm going to ask Roger Richthoff will help me along. What kind of heads of government are he thinking of who are currently appointed with a party book? I think it is completely out of the question that this should be the case. Can't you elaborate on who it is, Roger Richthoff? Top three, perhaps, of the worst appointments? Or top five? Maybe you have a top-ten list? It would be interesting to hear in that case. Then I might be able to develop the answer.
i-925becd649952333-651	Madam President, I would like I'd be happy to answer that question. What worries me is that the head of MSB was appointed after a long series of missions and the results of them. I take that as an example. When looking for managers for authorities, you should make some kind of demands on what they should be able to. You can do that anyway, but they should also have a background to guarantee it. The principle of appointing heads of agencies is often that the head of agencies appoints their managers. It doesn't have to be wrong. It doesn't have to be corruption. But it leads to the idea of how to do it yourself. All of us who have run companies with many employees see a difference here. When you start the company – also abroad, even in Russia – you start the company with the closest people you know and who are reliable and knowledgeable. But as companies grow, you seek the skills you need. It's the same. If you don't do this and think he's pretty good, and she's pretty good, then it leads to creating a group in an authority that is in total lack of official responsibility. No one takes responsibility. It is an example of how to turn away from responsibility, and we see this clearly today. The heads of government must be strong, and they should not be dependent on a party book. That's what I mean, and I took MSB as an example.
i-925becd649952333-656	Madam President, I would like This is something the bourgeois government was very careful about. Take, for example, the matter of governors – it was inserted there that it would certainly not only be a party book, but if you were a good manager in other areas you could become governor. It's a foundation. Then I might have expected a longer list. After all, maybe it was just an appointment. I'll tell you that if I had been prime minister, I probably wouldn't have let the then chief of police move on to MSB. But that's what happened. Generally speaking, it is of the utmost importance that we constantly appoint people according to the ability they have for the task they are to perform. That must be the basis of a democracy.
i-925becd649952333-659	Madam President, I would like As a member of the Swedish Parliament, this is the fourth time I have taken part in redeeming a defence decision. As several have been on it has been a long gross this time. In a few weeks, it will be even four years since the work of the Defence Committee began. The pain, Madam President, has been both difficult and lengthy. It has been given both a drip and pain relief. But finally, in September, the total defense bill finally saw the light of day. Perhaps the government is now in a position to consider whether, after the vote tomorrow, you will be given sole custody of what has been produced. I would already like to assure the government here and now that custody will be shared. There is every reason for this House to watch night and day over the recent shoot. A few days ago on Twitter, a former Minister of Defence went out and made his own interpretation of the defense decision. He meant that the efforts on the army are impoverishing our shell defense, that is, our remote combat forces. He believed that the result would be that we bring the war into our own Swedish land. Madam President, I would like It is my view that the former Minister of Defence is wrong – twice as wrong. We continue to spend most of our equipment on combat aircraft and submarines. So it will remain for considerable time, I judge. But the fact that we are now investing a lot in our indecent little army is very important. There is nothing as war-resisting as an army of decent skills and size. We have seen in armed conflicts over the last 20 years how the great powers are very happy to send their warships and their fighter planes. But they don't want to go into the ground. Such operations require completely different lead times and are associated with very high risks and costs. That's why the army needs to grow and grow. We're in this defense order from 24 cannons to 72. This still means that Sweden has fewer guns than fighter planes. It is a unique mix – no other country on earth looks like this, and you can think about the reasons why this is the case. In this context, I would like to say something about Niklas Karlsson's comment that if Finland decides on Gripen, we will do the best operational cooperation we can. I would like to take this opportunity to say that although Finland does not choose Gripen, it is my view that we should get the best operational cooperation we can. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces will receive an extra 200 billion during the 20th century. That is what has already been decided. In total, the defence budget until 2030 amounts to just over 800 billion. As a elected representative of the people, I always have a great deal of concern when authorities quickly provide large resources. It is important that we watch over cost-effectiveness and rationality. In the run-up to this decision, the Liberals have been fighting for, among other things, the creation of a new budget-funded authority whose sole task is to examine, monitor and evaluate our total defence, both military and civilian. It will start no later than 1 January 2023 and will significantly improve both the government's, I suppose, and the parliamentary follow-up. We have also got back with this total defense decision something called object frames. They must be available for underwater capability and for the fighter flight. Object frames existed at one time, right up to the end of the 90's. They mean putting an ultimate price tag on these two abilities, and if that price tag is to be disturbed in some way, the government must get the approval of the Riksdag for that. We also introduce a principle of design-to-cost. That is to say, the economy that is assigned to an activity or to a material object, it applies. If you run the risk of incurring costs or delays, which is the same thing, you should find funding in the relevant activities – within the defence sector concerned, I say to be extra clear. We also have a control post after the 2022 elections. That is when we will decide on the financial framework for the period 2026 to 2030. The Liberals, and as far as I understand the Center Party, want us to continue our journey towards 2%. I believe, Madam President, that there will be a majority in this House almost regardless of the outcome of the election. On August 30, three bourgeois parties wrote a rather attentive DN Debate article stating what they wanted to implement, i.e. the whole of the Defence Committee's report Värnkraft. Every one of those points, Madam President, is now included in the agreement of principle on which the total defence bill is based. The only difference is that in 2026 – 2030 funding will have to wait until after the 2022 elections. I think that, Madam President, when I look at it this way afterwards, is a very good conclusion of the work that has been done. And it should be said: The Social Democrats are now here saying that they are providing resources, but it was very difficult to get the Social Democrats on the wagon in the 2018 budget decision. It was very difficult to push forward the 25 billion increase in the framework in August 2019. On the slope we had to squeeze out the government the last 13 billion that is also being added. Madam President, it has largely been against every penny of reinforcement. I'll take the closing quick. In the field of civil defence, we are now receiving a wide-ranging investigation into the provision of personnel for civil defence, including civil service obligations. We have an entrance that will restore road and water construction and building and repair readiness. It existed during the Cold War and was of great importance. We're also getting an investigation into a police reinforcement resource. However, it is not decided yet, Mikael Oscarsson, whether it can be used even in times of crisis or not. It is also important for me, Madam President, that we now have a recommendation for all Swedish citizens to be able to make their own living for a week in the event of a crisis. This is an important step. With this, I would like to endorse Amendments Nos 4 and 54.
i-925becd649952333-677	Madam President, I would like Today, I have had a little bit of something to do with what I had planned to talk about, namely information security. I had written my speech to this debate in a Google Docs document, which a while ago was completely deleted while they were having problems. When I got my connection back and accessed the system, it turned out that almost everything was deleted. I had written a rather long speech, but now I can comment a little shorter instead. The reinforcements made in the bill are needed, especially in the field of civil defence. In the last debate on security policy, I talked quite a lot about a broader threat picture, and I would also like to emphasise that now. I will not go into what I saw as the great benefits of what we are now doing in military defence, nor will I go into so much detail on civil defence. However, I would like to say a few words on a few points which I would like to emphasise, which we consider to be particularly important and which may otherwise be in danger of going under the radar. There's a lot of people who've been talking about the cybersecurity center here. I would like to emphasise that we also think it is incredibly important that we now have such work going on and that there is a great strength behind it. In this area, we see that much of the threat of the future may develop, and then we must also have a reasonable defence to face it with. Another part is the psychological defense, with all that it means, against fake news, influence on electoral systems and other parts that make it impossible for us to reach the robustness that we could otherwise have. The investment here in the psychological defense is very good. Another point we need to emphasise is the improvement of emergency stocks and domestic production. It concerns food, materials, fuel and energy. The pandemic has shown how vulnerable we are to various kinds of interference. We have relied on others to help us when a crisis comes. If others also suffer the same crisis, as now with the corona, we see that there will be a huge struggle for resources. Then we simply need to be able to manage more on our own. One of the objectives of military defence is now also to be able to assist society with resources and work in other types of crisis. It is incredibly important, as I also mentioned in the previous debate, that we now use the resources that we are spending properly. That is why we in the Green Party say that it is important that we try to have flexibility and that we can strengthen where necessary – not only that it is civil defence that must strengthen the military, but also the other way round. Here there is a work that has begun. Both in terms of the fires and in terms of the pandemic response, the defence has gone in and helped – with firefighting, field hospitals and so on. This is a very good thing to continue developing. We also see how the strong reinforcements of civil defence must continue. Among other things, the situation in health care these very days makes it very clear that we need to have an organisation that actually meets the challenges that we can face. The broader threat picture also means more vulnerability to climate change. I was in a little bit on the fires and help with them. Here, too, we need to see in the broader security policy perspective how important it is for us to help each other and to see that much more is needed to face that threat. It also includes that the Swedish Armed Forces must also contribute to Sweden's goal of becoming a fossil-free welfare country. We see the development of domestic energy production as an important step for the Swedish Armed Forces to arrive there. Finally, I would just like to say that it is a good thing that this bill is now being put on the table of Parliament so that we can start work on a new and stronger total defence. The threats of the future must be met, and we do so with better preparedness and international cooperation for more freedom, democracy and human rights. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report, but also our reservation 10 in paragraph 6.
i-925becd649952333-688	Madam President, I would like My first question to the Green Party is: What are the reasons why Sweden has two Hercules planes standing in Cambridge, England? Reportedly, they have been out in the wind for a couple of years. What are the reasons for that? The next question is: Who thinks the Green Party should have the primary responsibility for training local defence shooting units, for example, if that happens?
i-925becd649952333-690	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have to say that I have no answer to Roger Richthoff's questions. As Hanna Gunnarsson said earlier in this debate, the objectives, the budget and the framework for policy are to be achieved. The content is the responsibility of the authorities, according to the objectives we have set ourselves. That is why I do not have an answer as to where we have our Hercules plans and why you tell me who should have the main responsibility for one or the other in this regard. It should also be added that I am a little too much of a jumper in this debate today to have the deep knowledge that might have been required to answer these detailed questions.
i-925becd649952333-693	Madam President, I would like It's okay. It's okay not to be able to answer when you get in like this. It's not easy to answer these questions, and I'm going to ask them to the Secretary of Defense later too—then they're already known. I'm not asking my other questions now either, because my intention is not to try to be funny here or put you on the pot in any way. So I'm deleting the other questions I was going to ask you.
i-925becd649952333-695	Madam President, I would like I hope Roger Richthoff can get better answers from the Secretary of Defense.
i-925becd649952333-696	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson mentions emergency stocks. It's part of the civilian defense. Unfortunately, the criticism we have had from the opposition in terms of civil defence is that the government has been caught up in a number of investigations and that the answer is due when you leave this bill. I believe that five major investigations have been submitted by the government. Among other things, there was one on the role of industry in total defence, pointing out the things that could not be done in terms of state aid and competition neutrality. Another such great investigation, which is now unfortunately before us, is that of the entire design of civil defence, i.e. Barbro Holmberg's investigation. We would have been very valiant to have that investigation today in order to actually decide on this bill, whether we should have sectoral authorities, civilian areas and civilian commanders. I think one of the problems with this bill is that it is loose in the edges when it comes to the design and the very skeleton of civil defence. But security stocks have also been looked at, and this is another area where the government seems to be investigating its way forward. I understand that they have ordered and received a very solid preliminary study from FOI on 180 pages. It points to the urgency of introducing these emergency stocks. I wonder if Janine Alm Ericson has any comment on that. Now it seems that it will not be decided on the emergency stocks until after the elections. The second thing I would like to ask is the cybersecurity centre. If this is as important as Janine Alm Ericson claims – I share that view – why have the authorities only given half as much money as they have requested for this? And why did it take over a year for the government to return with instructions to the authorities on how the centre should be designed?
i-925becd649952333-702	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Pål! I'll start with the last question about the cybersecurity center. As far as it is concerned, I regret to say that I do not have sufficient knowledge of the background. On the other hand, I thought that Niklas Karlsson answered this in a very good way. We agree on a high level of ambition and that this is incredibly important, and we will see how we develop it in the future. I very much hope that we can agree on a good path and ensure that we get good momentum in the work, because, as I said, we all agree on this. With regard to civil defence and the fact that it had been hoped that this total defence bill would have been supported, I fully agree. It's a very important part. Military defence, too, has said that if we do not obtain better and more resources for civil defence, not all the money allocated will be able to be spent in the best possible way. These two parts are interdependent. We're really going to have that with us. At the same time, it is important that we do not go forward with proposals without proper documentation. We usually like to prepare questions to know what we should then decide on. In this part, too, the opposition may have broken slightly with its NATO option, but we talked about this in the last debate. I still believe that solid preparation is important for us to do the right things forward.
i-925becd649952333-708	Madam President, I would like It is for the government to ensure that investigations are in place, that they are given clear directives and that they are provided with staff so that we can really get the basis from which we serve. I can only regret that this basis, linked to the actual design of civil defence, is not in place. There is a risk that we will be out of step, and military defence will not work unless civilians do. A number of structural issues lie ahead of us in this. Madam President, I would like If I challenged Janine a little bit earlier, I can go over to something where maybe we can agree. The Green Party usually talks a lot about the broader threat picture. I like to talk more about the fact that we are facing a multidimensional threat picture. Today, there are various threats and risks – both the armed attack that should be dimensional for the defence and a number of threats, risks and vulnerabilities in a grey area between total peace and total war. On the part of the Moderates, we have said that we need to adapt our emergency legislation on the basis of the broader threat picture. Janine Alm Ericson knows that we can only be prepared for war and war danger. It is the two props that form the basis for us to be able to use the warrant laws. On the part of the Moderates, and in fact in line with what Johan Hirschfeldt wrote on DN Debate, we think that this legislation may need to be modernised. We are making such a proposal in this report. We say that, for example, large-scale natural disasters – such as forest fires caused by climate change – terror attacks and various types of grey zone scenarios mean that we need to modernise the legislation. Now I know that the Green Party has not supported the proposal that we have made, but I still ask Janine Alm Ericson if she is willing to review the props for the emergency legislation, including when there can be increased preparedness beyond war and war danger.
i-5isYR1YFXj7WXiJtHjntQf	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Pål Jonson! I really do believe that this is a conversation that we must continue to have and that we also need to have a preparation of that question. It is now very black or white, and there are certain things that must be clearly fulfilled. At the same time, we sometimes see, not least now during the pandemic, that we might have needed other tools than those we actually have available. I cannot make any promise as to whether or not we want it to go forward. On the other hand, I would like to see additional knowledge as to where we could end up and whether this could improve our ability to withstand crises. I think that is an important way forward.
i-925becd649952333-716	Madam President, I would like Many try to describe their picture of history and how one and the other has developed in these contexts. I can only say that when we came to the government, work began on preparing a bill that was about moving from the old intervention organisation mainly focused on international military operations to a national defence effort. What has been done between 2016 and 2020 is that we have broken the downward trend within the Swedish Armed Forces that has been going on for many, many years. It is a perspective of 20 – 25 years. We have strengthened the bottom plate with a variety of materials, vehicles, personal equipment and more. We have re-established operations on Gotland. We have added qualified equipment where, for example, the medium-range anti-aircraft system Patriot is a very clear example which is now being delivered. The battle flight system Jas 39 E has been developed. We started with refresher training of conscripts and then continued with basic education. Aurora 2017 was the first major military exercise since the early 1990s, combining army, aviation and marine activities. These are just a few key points. Under them are huge amounts of details that can be developed. We are much better today than we were in 2014 and 2015. We have raised the military capability. This is an economic increase in 2016 – 2020 of 10.5 billion. In total, we have contributed EUR 33 billion compared to the financial year 2015. In the last defence decision, we therefore took a decisive step towards rescheduling the entire operation. Unfortunately, there is in the debate and in what I have heard so far a trace from some bourgeois representatives who want to reduce the value of the initiative that we are now undertaking. Why do you want to play down and not see the big bet that this means? 27.5 billion is the largest investment since the 1950s. One can, of course, argue who has said what at different stages of the negotiations. I am not going to go into it, but I am pleased that there is an agreement that four parties are behind and that is now being prepared to push through a decision in Parliament. It creates a real platform that matters. What we are facing now is a considerable increase in capacity. This is a major development of talent in the coming years. I think that one should be careful to emphasise this in different contexts, because it is a good signal to the Swedish people, to the Swedish Armed Forces, but also to our partners and the countries that are interested in the development in Sweden. Then it is true that it takes time to build military capabilities. The Swedish Armed Forces will have tremendous challenges together with the other authorities to complete the intentions of the decision that we are now prepared to take in the Swedish Parliament. There will be no easy sailing. We will have challenges in terms of finances, human resources, equipment systems, delivery and training. Growing is not always simple. Over the years, a new culture has been established in the Swedish Armed Forces, where you can handle such issues. But now it's even more at its head with the big stakes that are taking place. I personally have repeated on many occasions that if we now build up the Swedish Armed Forces, I hope that in the future, even if the security policy sun shines a little more, we will have the reason not to make any drastic cuts but to keep what we have built up in a stable way, because it can come too quickly other days, and then we stand there. I think it is important to emphasise this, and there is a broad view that this should apply. In any case, I am interpreting a number of speeches in this way. The new regiments are established due to geographical, preparedness training and regional policy reasons. The Norrland Dragoon Regiment, K 4, in Arvidsjaur is established during the period 2021 – 2025 and covers at least 35 jobs. Älvsborg Amphibious Regiment, Amf 4, is established in Gothenburg from 2021 to 2025 and covers at least 95 jobs. Upplands flygflottilla, F 16, in Uppsala is established in 2021 – 2025 and is about at least 10 jobs. Bergslagen's artillery regiment in Kristinehamn with Villingsberg as a shooting field is about at least 125 jobs, established in 2021 – 2025 and completed in the range 2026 – 2030. Västernorrland Regiment, I 21, in Sollefteå with a training start in Östersund is about 125 jobs in Sollefteå and at least 40 in Östersund, established in 2022 and completed in the 2026 – 2030 period. Dalregementet In 13 in Falun, at least 125 jobs, are established in 2022 and completed in the range 2026 – 2030. There are, of course, clear reasons for these establishments. The establishment of K 4 Arvidsjaur is justified by the increased basic education resulting from the organisation of two Norwegian hunting battalions. The Amphibious Regiment is about the permanent presence on the west coast for important operational reasons, not least to protect large harbour areas. Uppland's fleet provides a base for permanent positioning of combat aircraft eventually. The Dal Regiment and Västernorrland Regiment are established in combination for geographical and emergency reasons. The re-establishment of Bergslagen artillery regiment in Kristinehamn and Villingsberg has links to the responsibility for the training of two to three artillery battalions for the brigades in southern Sweden. Earlier in the debate, we have also pointed to Östersund and Sollefteå as part of the connection with Trondheim. There are also such aspects of the Dalregementsetableringen. The financial resources allocated to this entire defence effort go over the fact that we invest in the brigade format, begin development in the divisional format and expand the artillery. We have six combat aircraft divisions. We're going from four to five submarines. We are making extensive investments in corvette systems. We have robot air defence on the corvettes and thereby strengthen air defence capabilities. We have a wide range of soil target control capabilities. It is a wide range of such elements that are part of the decision. Are we going to be able to do this financially? The budget is based on the Swedish Armed Forces and the authorities' analyses. We have made a great effort to produce figures that we believe to be valid. So far, we can see that the economy on which this is based is solid and functioning and that these issues can be addressed. However, it is not correct when you say that when there are a lot of other things in the 2030 range that are not funded, it suggests some kind of underfunding. It says on page 30 of the bill: If the financial framework is increased in 2026 – 2030, the Swedish Defence Committee's report "Värnkraft" will be implemented in its entirety, and the funds will be used to implement the following measures. Then there are 17 points. What is included in the plan for 2021 – 2025 is linked to the funding that runs until 2025 – 2030. However, as one speaker pointed out at the outset, there are things that require extra funding, which is in the proposal. I think that you should be honest enough to account for it, so that you do not give a picture that there is no line on this point. Then there is no government that has been able to swear free from the cost and material challenges. But you have to have the ability to deal with such problems when they come. An authority must follow up on the Swedish Armed Forces. We have also put a lot of work into financial control in the Swedish Armed Forces. We are taking various measures all the time when it comes to follow-ups, and the Defence Power Management is taking the economic challenges very seriously. I can definitely promise you that. Government and ministry have repeatedly talked about this. This decision has been taken into account. It's on a good foundation. Then no one can guard against any eventuality that arises. However, both during the journey to the defence decision and through experience we have had to deal with challenges that we have had to deal with in different ways. Members are aware of this. If the government does not have the ability to deal with such problems, it will be very difficult. But it is also impossible to see in the crystal ball everything that will happen in a future. We have tried to arrange this now as far as possible with different types of measures. And I can say that no defence decision has been subject to so much restrictions and analysis and has so much to do with follow-up mechanisms like this. We also have a control station in 2023 with a connection to the Defence Preparation. Then we'll have to evaluate what this looks like. Then there will be a new defence committee that will work with a new defence decision in 2025. It shall apply from 2026 to 2030. I am pleased with what we now have as a basis and the decision that is about to be taken. This will mean a lot to the military capability in Sweden. It will be a clear signal to the outside world that we are taking the situation seriously. I am pleased that there are a number of parties who are prepared to take responsibility for moving forward on these important issues.
i-925becd649952333-738	Madam President, I would like Now the Secretary of Defense killed my first question. I would have liked the Minister for Defence to have made a further comment on the control station and developed it. But now the Secretary of Defense mentioned it. Is there anything else to say about that? Otherwise, the Swedish democrats wondered whether the control post would be able to provide funds after 2025. Is there such an option? Is that possible? We think it's doubtful. This was my first thought. There are also less important issues, but in the long term they are important. We will now train units in Sollefteå and Falun. We think it should be brigade units in Falun and possibly local defence shooter battalions or shooting battalions in Sollefteå. Regardless of what unit it becomes, we wonder where the responsibility for the training should lie. We believe that this should be on the army commander. The reason for this is that military district managers and personnel have no instructors. They may request such information from the army in order to be able to train. That is why, in our view, responsibility should be there. What is the minister's opinion, if he has one? There's something else that worries me a little bit. Many say that tensions have increased, and that's why we're going to increase the defense. It cannot be denied that the government is investing heavily in the defence. But are we going to destroy the defense again if things get calmer in the outside world? Or should we maintain a strong defense over time?
i-925becd649952333-743	Madam President, I would like I do not know how many times I have answered the last question on my own initiative. Most recently, in my speech, I mentioned that if we are now building up the defence, we should try to keep it stable and not pull down just because the security policy sun is temporarily shining a little better. I have said this many times, and I will say it again. It is a very important approach to the future as it takes so long to build up military capabilities. Besides, it can swing quickly. With regard to the question of the control station and whether it can provide funds, I do not intend to pre-empt such a discussion. On the other hand, it is important that there is a control post in order for us to see whether the development is of a purely operational, organisational, enforcement and economic nature. When you have all these parameters, you have to discuss what we should do. Perhaps the Swedish Armed Forces can do this within the plan that will be presented. I do not, therefore, anticipate the economic question of the control post. As regards the issue of responsibility for implementing the business in Sollefteå and Falun, the idea is that it will start in 2022. When carrying out their troop training, responsibility must lie with the individual regiment. There is, of course, a collective army responsibility for all operations being carried out according to the intentions contained in planning instructions and instructions from the Armed Forces' leadership. All of this lies at different levels in the Swedish Armed Forces' organisation.
i-925becd649952333-746	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers. I believe that the Minister for Defence underestimates the jobs that come. It is usually the case that subcontractors provide more jobs than those employed directly, if they are to have it as a parameter. That's how it's been at the regiments where I've been working. I think the Minister for Defence underestimates this. But I believe he has no problem with that.
i-925becd649952333-748	Madam President, I would like I said, at least, to guard me. For each location there is a span that is higher than the numbers I mentioned. I don't know if it's because I'm wise from experience, but it's better to hold back a little and say for example 125. If it then shows that it is 175, it is positive. So I had a certain margin of caution.
i-925becd649952333-749	Madam President, I would like I was going to touch on a theme that we have been discussing in the last two hours. As a municipal politician – we have often started there – I learned that it is important to listen to the profession. We politicians are not experts and have no demands on us in terms of education or experience. This is why we have referrals and presentations whereupon we get new referrals and new presentations. No matter how many referrals you get or how many times you invite top managers and experts for presentations, it doesn't matter much if you don't listen to what is said. I'm thinking of the new regiments in Central Sweden. Consultations and presentations clearly state that you should invest in what you already have and grow in the places where you already exist. How does the Minister of Defence view the balance between listening to authorities and experts and from a political point of view pushing in a slightly different direction?
i-925becd649952333-753	Madam President, I would like As far as the regimental placements are concerned, a combination of preparedness, military geography, training and regional policy reasons is behind and has guided this. So not only are there reasons for the rationalization of production, but there are other reasons here. I believe that the organisation that is to be created now has the capacity to grow in the future. We go up to 2025 up to 8,000 conscripts. The organization that is being created here certainly has the potential, if you decide to do so, to increase the number of conscripts in the future, as is likely. But I will not precede such discussions. However, it is possible to grow in the organisation. To what has been said before, I would also like to say that behind the decision there is a directive to investigate the conditions in northern Lapland for so-called border hunting units to see if we can create an activity that can work in conjunction with Norway and Finland. This, too, is contained in the Decision. This is based on the fact that we see developments in the Arctic that are not positive.
i-925becd649952333-756	Madam President, I would like How, then, does the Minister of Defence view the balance between listening to the authorities and the referrals and presentations that we receive from those who know this very well and then choosing, as politicians, to make decisions other than the advice actually given in the referral? We all know what was in the referral document regarding the new regiments. The answers are confidential, so I can't tell you here what was in them, but we all know that. Is there a risk that regional policy considerations, such as jobs, take over the military strategic advice and the referrals we actually receive from the authorities – and which were in fact quite clear in this case? Is there any danger that regional policy, or other things that may exist that are not precisely defence policy or military strategic, will take over decision-making in this case?
i-925becd649952333-758	Madam President, I would like In this context, I have mentioned the four points of preparedness, military geography, education and regional policy, and that it is this combination that characterises these places. Then you can always discuss what is in the context, and you can ask yourself if you like what is said. In the case of Sollefteå and Östersund, there is a clear bearing on the entry routes from Norway and the support from NATO. What happens in Falun can be seen in a similar perspective. As far as the protection of the port in Gothenburg is concerned, I think it is very clear. So you can take this into account: If you do not like a particular type of political cooperation or a certain type of political development, you may not think that certain establishments that clearly have that bearing should be implemented either. I don't know, but even that aspect of life can exist. I think that the outcome of the negotiations that has come to light is something we can stand for and that the Parliament can decide on. Then it is well in all political activities that we have politicians in order for them to take ultimate responsibility. This is the case at the municipal level, it is the regional level and it must also be in the Riksdag. Should we just listen to the authorities and officials in municipalities and regions, I do not know if there would be so much policy. We need to have a clear picture of what we want and then focus our work on it. Profession usually has no problem working with politics if there is a clear political will, and in this case it is very concrete and clear.
i-925becd649952333-761	Madam President, I would like I have a little question about the Minister for Defence standing here telling us how many jobs will be affected by the establishment of new units. Of course, I also want to create jobs, but I realise that this cannot be a military core business. Nor can it be the core business of the Swedish Armed Forces to create jobs; it is, of course, to deal with armed attacks. I would have been less surprised if it were the Minister for Labour who told me about these regional policy initiatives and how many jobs they would create, but the Minister for Defence would be happy to inform me about the balance between regional policy, security policy and defence policy in this defence policy decision. The second point I wanted to make, Madam President, concerns the 35 billion and the 17 objects. I have, of course, been involved in negotiations with the Minister for Defence, where he has always stated that it would be possible to give assignments to the Armed Forces and then decide on the appropriations allocated, and that is the order we have opposed. From what I understand, the agreement that the government has made with the Centers and Liberals states that the Swedish Armed Forces should start planning for the 17 different missions, and I feel that it is precisely in this way that there is a risk of getting under-financing – by giving the task to the Swedish Armed Forces to start planning for the missions even though the Swedish Armed Forces do not know if there is money for them after a control station in 2023 and introducing a new defence decision in 2024. However, the Secretary of Defense may correct me if I am wrong in saying in the bill that the Swedish Armed Forces should start planning for these missions.
i-925becd649952333-764	Madam President, I would like I do not know; this is so clear that I do not think it is something to discuss. This is stated in the bill:.If the financial framework is increased in the years 2026 – 2030, the Swedish Defence Committee's report Värnkraft(Ds 2019:8) will be implemented in its entirety and the funds will be used to implement the following measures. The authorities shall be instructed from 2021 to plan for a possible implementation of this whole. The following actions shall be planned in the context of an extended financial framework: ..................................................... You have to start preparatory work, but if you are to implement it, you need an increased financial framework. So we have not automatically calculated that everything should now be carried out, set aside the economy for it or intend to force it into an economic framework that does not exist. Nevertheless, I think it should be stated in an honest manner that what we have as a sharp proposal in the proposal is what applies until 2025 and that these 17 points are then something to be implemented if an extended financial framework is planned. We're not there yet. As far as the dressings are concerned, I have not heard that the Moderates would not be willing to support that part of the decision. What I am presenting, on the other hand, is an assessment of what this will mean in terms of activity in terms of the number of jobs, and that is an interesting task to take note of. Something must happen with regard to the number of employees if it is to establish a new business; there is nothing strange about that, is there?
i-925becd649952333-767	Madam President, I would like This is precisely the risk I see, i.e. the planning uncertainty that I still think the Swedish Armed Forces will be exposed to when it starts planning. I assume that our planning also means taking measures – but the Swedish Armed Forces do not know if the money will come. That is why I think it would have been more fair to commit ourselves to the financial resources needed to implement these 17 measures. We have counted on the 17 measures, and that is about 35 billion. In this respect, I think there is a risk of under-financing. Finally, let me deal with what the Minister for Defence has said about not making mistakes again. I think, of course, that it is wise not to repeat the mistake of cutting the defence too far, but my call to the Minister for Defence would be not to deal with the defence policy dialogue with the opposition in the way that has been done over the last one and a half years. We have not had a good climate for dialogue, and we have not had a good forum for cooperation. We've had a very messy year of defence policy. It started with the government not agreeing with the agreement on economic orientation that existed in the Defence Committee, and then an agreement was reached with C and L that was not price assured. After that, we had to sit in an analysis group where we were not allowed to take part in secret documents. After that we had a hundred hours of defence negotiations and discussions in the Defense Committee, without getting forward. I would like the Minister for Defence not to repeat the last one and a half years of defence policy in the future either. It does not guarantee a broad consensus and mutual trust. That is also why we are constantly following up on the risks of under-financing contained in this defence decision. We have seen that not all the problems have come up on the table.
i-925becd649952333-771	Madam President, I would like It was probably the case that we raised existing problems on the table and presented those realities. Then it's a process where the question is how different things should be tackled and how to finance it all. With regard to planning uncertainty and these 17 points, I think that the way to argue is designed to create a picture of the defence decision that is not correct. It is clear that these are the priorities in an enlarged economic framework, but they only apply to an expanded economic framework. Then it is well that it is a matter of giving and taking from all sides when different parties have to deal with such difficult issues. It is also a question of being able to compromise on one's own positions. I won't go any further now, but I also have my picture of how this has been. I myself also made a decision to suspend the discussions at a given time. Then we continued in a negotiation process with four parties, and now we stand here with a defence decision. There have probably been many different strategies from many different directions in the context, but I understand that everyone wants to write the story in their own way.
i-925becd649952333-773	Madam President, I would like I think that is good what the Minister for Defence says about the fact that if the security policy sun is stronger in the future, you should not repeat the mistake but make sure to have a basic ability no matter what. I think that's good. That's exactly how it has to be. I want to ask you a question. We were in deep agreement last spring in the Defence Committee, a year and a half ago, about the security policy analysis and what needed to be done. It was about the shortcomings of our defence, that we could not rule out a military attack and what was required. My question is: why could we not go further along that road? Why could the government not have agreed to raise the stairs by 5 billion in 2026 and 2027 so that we could have completed the 17 measures? If the lack had not existed, we would have been able to maintain the ten-year perspective that has been so extremely important to us in the Defence Committee to have. It takes such a long time. We cannot afford delays in the security policy situation we have. Why should it be better to wait three years and look at it when we now agree that this would be necessary? Why wait until we know the price tag?
i-925becd649952333-777	Madam President, I would like A state budget consists of very many different parameters. These are labour market issues, preschool, school, health care, education, communications and infrastructure. It is a wide range of areas to be catered for. We now allocate SEK 27 billion to the Swedish Armed Forces. It is an enormous commitment that has been made in the state budget in relation to and in competition with other important areas. To this we have a situation in which we currently have big money going out in the corona management. One should also have that perspective when assessing this. What is now happening until 2025 is a significant increase in Swedish military capabilities. Defence decisions are normally valid for five years. Now we are about to decide on the defence decision that will apply until 2025. Then there will be a new defence decision in force from 1 January 2026. A great deal can happen in those years when it comes to both the enforcement of this defense decision but also when it comes to our environment and how it develops. We may also have technological developments that will affect in different ways. In view of all these pieces, we believe that the most balanced and wise thing now is to stick to a five-year defense decision. Then we will follow it up in a new defence preparation and come back with a new defence decision that finally regulates the years 2026 – 2030. We must also consider the greatness of the amount that we are now allocating – in competition with everything else and also with the burdens that Corona imposes.
i-925becd649952333-783	Madam President, I would like Of course, there's stress with corona. But I find it very strange to take Corona as revenue for something that applies in 2026 and 2027. It'll be very hard to keep up. I understand that we agree that this is a strengthened security policy situation. We are talking about a war going on in Eastern Ukraine right now. We're seeing a sharp position. We have been talking about a ten-year perspective. I can only regret that the government does not want to take that step. You can read in history what it was like for World War II. I am not saying now that we are facing a new world war. But then you thought you had all the time. Maybe we don't have all the time. Then it's very dangerous to put things on the future. We all agree on what is required, but we do not want funds to be set aside. Nevertheless, the most important thing is to be able to ensure that we can protect our freedom. I would also like to take this opportunity to say something now that we are going to take the defence decision tomorrow. We have our reservation with the Moderates, and we hope to support it. But information has now come from various sources. They come internally from the Armed Forces and elsewhere. There we are told that there is already clear evidence that these are costs. There are increases in air force, Jas E and Jas C/D, maintenance and other things. I thought I'd take this opportunity to ask you a few questions. Have there been updates since the last meeting of the Committee on Defence? Does the Government have information that suggests that there will be a cost or is the situation the same as it was when we saw each other a couple of weeks ago? These are questions I want to ask you.
i-925becd649952333-789	Mr President, I would like to 27 billion is not zero crowns. It's a 40% increase in the level. I think Oscarsson should be able to try to understand that this is an enormous investment that is taking place here. It matters. It will significantly increase our military capabilities. Both the Swedish Armed Forces and the authorities will have full skub trying to implement the decision. This means that we will have a considerably stronger defence force in 2025 than we have today. This speech that we do not take the situation seriously is not correct. Let's take this seriously. Since we came to the government, there have been tremendous efforts on the Swedish Armed Forces. On the other hand, we had a situation for eight years with Reinfeldt where the KD was in government and where we had a lot to wish for in terms of defence policy. It is the highest increase since the 1950s that we are doing. What has been said in the Committee on Defence is what applies. There is no guarantee that there will be no cost or change over the next five years. We need to understand that, and we need to tackle it gradually. It's been over the years. This is not very simple. The task we have is that what is now known can be handled within the financial framework that exists. That is what applies, and that is what is stated. There is nothing that has changed in a week or so in this context.
i-925becd649952333-794	Mr President, I would like to It is an important milestone in today's debate on the report Total Defence 2021 – 2 0 25. I'm glad I can be here in Parliament today. After all, it is history that is written when we debate and decide on a new defence decision every five years. I'm sure there's a lot of people following the debate from home. In my speech, I will focus on the civilian part of the total defence. For me who have no background in discussing defence policy, I will admit that it was difficult when I entered the Committee on Defence. Many of the things that have been debated here have been addressed in the Defence Committee. It is often the focus on details that it can be difficult for a beginner to get into. Not least during this year with the coronapander, when we are not supposed to be here physically, the conversations and learning have been limited. However, if we ignore this, it is a good time from an information and learning perspective to be new to the defence policy. Many people today talk about defence and security policy from a slightly different perspective. But interest and awareness have increased. And now we are making the greatest effort in modern times for both military and civil defence. Investments are counted in money, but I would say that awareness and knowledge of the threats to our country and our way of life are also important for Sweden's preparedness. The reintroduction of military service has contributed to this, and not only by equipping Sweden with more conscripts and more soldiers. It has also started conversations at home at the kitchen table, not least if you have a 17- or 18-year-old who has received that letter about signing up. It is discussions that are necessary in society to increase preparedness and knowledge. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's ability to cope with crises and increased preparedness needs to be strengthened on a broad front. An important part is to strengthen civil defence. All the activities of the various actors in society to strengthen Sweden's resilience in the event of increased preparedness and war – that is the civil defence. They are therefore individuals, organisations, companies, municipalities, regions and authorities. After years of dismantling, it is time to rebuild and strengthen the total defense. With this focus for the years 2021 – 2025, which is thoroughly prepared by the Swedish Defence Committee, Sweden is taking major steps forward in the construction of a strong total defence. It also presents challenges. Human resources also need to be reviewed throughout civil defence. Important steps have been taken by the fact that authorities have placed their personnel in war, and some municipalities and regions have also begun this work. However, there are also a large number of private actors who carry out socially important activities, and cooperation between these different actors needs to be developed. As there is now an increased need for staff, voluntary defence organisations are central. They are the ones who contribute with popular support, resources and defence will. They should be seen as a valuable human resource in the construction of a strong total defence. With regard to the objectives of civil defence, they shall be to be able to protect the civilian population, to ensure the essential functions of society and to maintain the necessary livelihood. Civil defence shall support military capabilities and participate in the overall defence efforts. Civil defence measures will also strengthen the resilience of society and contribute to the prevention and management of severe tensions in peacetime. It should also be possible to use these resources in internal and international operations. Civil and military defence are mutually reinforcing, and it is important that Parliament's ability to evaluate and follow up these objectives and activities is strengthened. As I mentioned, one of the objectives of civil defence is to maintain the necessary livelihood. In order for the preparedness to be further developed, the Government will set up an investigation into a nationally coordinated supply readiness. There is a need for long-term interaction between public and private actors at all levels. Industry has a central role to play in total defence and security of supply. To this end, a Business Council will be set up for the exchange of information and for the development of a common approach and conditions for interaction between different actors. Mr President, I would like to Civil defence activities are carried out by a wide range of actors at central, regional and local level. This places high demands on well-functioning planning, coordination and follow-up. The investigation into civil defence shall report on its mission by March 2021 at the latest. It should lead to decisions on a structure of responsibilities, management and coordination in civil defence at all levels. In terms of total defence, the municipalities, regions and county boards have basic roles. It is important that they are given good opportunities to participate in the work to strengthen preparedness. The intensive work on civil defence by state authorities will affect the work of municipalities and regions, and therefore the investigation of civil defence will also be essential for them. It shall, inter alia, assess the needs of municipalities and regions for resource allocation and make proposals for a more coherent and clearer management capacity. Mr President, I would like to We are conducting this debate at the same time as Sweden is experiencing one of its worst crises in modern times. The entire chain of care is important for total defence. It will work in different phases of crisis and ultimately in war. The experience of the coronapndemine will be important for the continued preparedness work. While we are standing here around the country, unprecedented efforts are being made to reduce the spread of infection, and in hospitals, health workers are struggling to save lives. We want to take this opportunity to express our great respect and gratitude to them. With this in mind, I would like, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-925becd649952333-813	Mr President, I would like to Finally – here we are today debating these extremely important issues! That is something I think many of us have really been waiting for. I will primarily dwell on civil defence, but also on a defence force for everyone. As far as civil defence is concerned, the government's handling so far has been rather slow. The bases for the defence decisions for the civil defence came almost six months after the Swedish Armed Forces left their data. The investigation into civil defence responsibilities, management and coordination will not be completed until March next year. At all, it is important that the government becomes more active in strengthening civil defence. Strengthening civil defence is not only important in terms of the impact of overall defence in the event of increased preparedness and war. Civil defence is also an important resource in the event of a crisis, as we have seen not least during the ongoing coronapandemy. The construction of civil defence is crucial if Sweden is to have a functioning total defence. We Moderates believe that the armed attack should be dimensional for civil defence. If Sweden is able to cope with the demands that the war can impose on society, we are also, of course, better equipped to deal with the crisis. We want clear parliamentary targets and a good follow-up of results, and we Moderates want a total defence ministry to be set up with responsibility for both military and civil defence. With such leadership we think it will be the best synchronisation; we think we get the most bang for the money. But, Mr President, if we are to survive in the event of a crisis or war, we also need food and potatoes. Then medical supplies are needed. Then we need a lot of things that we need to have a clear plan for. Then it's not enough with a text. Ensuring the functioning of supply chains in the event of major crises is a priority. Covid-19's progress in the world affects many of Sweden's companies in terms of access to materials and personnel. Here we can clearly see that a formalised Business Council would be an important and good interface between industry and the state to proactively address crisis preparedness and total defence issues, such as the effects of, for example, this coronavirus. But it is also about being able to share information and problems in an ongoing crisis in order to find good solutions together. We can clearly see that the conditions for public actors to interact with the business community have changed since Sweden was last planned for a civil defence. Today, stocks of many businesses are planned to enable cost-effectiveness through the lean production principle or just in time. This is done in order to be able to produce and deliver goods in just the amount and at the time they are needed so that you do not need to have any larger stocks. I have seen this for myself both in health care and in the food trade. This is smart from many angles but not at all good from a stock-holding perspective. It is clear that Sweden needs a safe supply even in case of increased preparedness. It is equally clear that the government does not give priority to these issues, because then we should have been further ahead than we are doing today. Mr President, I would like to The world looks very uncertain and worried – more worried than in a long time. Unpredictability is increasing, and the importance of security of supply in the event of crisis or war is something that cannot be stressed enough. A secure supply even in case of increased preparedness is central. In the regulations to the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration as early as 2017 and 2018, the Government commissioned them to develop a defence supply concept that included, among other things, agreements and agreements with private actors. This has then been investigated in the investigation The role of industry in total defence and security of supply in defence equipment, the only real sharp proposal being to set up a business council. It is now part of the government's bill for the total defence of a cross-sectoral business council to be set up, but not when or how. Our whole society depends on goods and services that come from the business world. A large part of our socially important activities are carried out by private actors. It is about energy supply, food security, transport and health. The fact that there are agreements with companies that can ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces' access to materials, supplies and services is ensured in case of increased preparedness is necessary. We need to learn from the mistakes made when civil defence was abandoned. Sweden must have a long-term sustainable defence capability. Strong civil defence is central to achieving this ambition. For us Moderates, it is extremely important that we have a defence force for everyone. Work to increase the proportion of women in the defence is slow, and the call Give a hand and piece together three years ago, as well as FOI's report Career barriers for young military women, shows that many women have been subjected to violations within the Swedish Armed Forces. It seems that other than women, too, are exposed. I'm thinking about the latest report from K3. Organisational cultures are not something you change in fine words in a document. As a parent, you know the kids do what we do, not what we say. Being a leader is also about this. People do what we do, not as we say. It is about setting an example, following up and continuously improving. It is about implementing confidence-building measures. Then there is the matter of materials. In a defense force for everyone, you need bras that work in foreign service at 50 degrees. Then merino wool is not very cozy. We want material-related health and safety risks for women to be analysed by an objective investigation that will come back with proposals for immediate action. Finally, in order to achieve greater equality, the Swedish Armed Forces must also review physical requirements for positions – whether they are factual or not – and identify and clarify career paths within the agency. If the government calls itself feminist, this work should be a higher priority. To conclude, Mr President, I am pleased that we are several parties which have agreed on the importance, on these many difficult issues, of the government investigating the form of modern civil service, which is now the subject of an announcement under paragraph 6. Civil duty was abolished in 2008 and used when it was active in training civil defence reinforcement capabilities. In the event of a crisis or war, there will be an increased need for staff to perform simpler tasks for society to function. We can see this not least in the care now during the development of the coronan in Stockholm. We Moderates believe that civil duty should be reactivated, but a more thorough analysis of its design and purpose is needed. You need to look at how many people are to be trained and to what positions, how civil duty can also contribute to emergency preparedness and, of course, the costs. We Moderates, of course, support all our reservations, but I would like to support reservation number 24 in paragraph 18.
i-925becd649952333-836	Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning civil defence is a very important part of total defence and a prerequisite for the military defence's ability to defend our independence and independence. An armed attack on Sweden would put great strain on the civilian population. Protecting the civilian population is a key task for civil defence. In order to deal with and reduce the pressure on the population in the event of an armed attack, plans need to be drawn up and civilian defence resources allocated in peacetime. It is also of the utmost importance that regular exercises are performed at all levels. Mr President, I would like to In the late 80s and early 90s, the destruction and closure of civil defence began. To scrap its reserves, management centres and organisation is one of the worst political decisions made in Sweden after the Second World War. The responsibility for this lies historically with a number of governments with varying party colours, of which we are all well aware in this House. Let's just hope we never end up there again. The multiannual, solid work of the defence committee on the reports Resistance and Värnkraft has resulted in the report we are debating today. It is positive that there is broad support in the Riksdag for once again strengthening the Swedish civil defence. If there's much we agree, maybe even on most of it. However, there are differences in which we Swedish democrats may, above all, have views on the future management and governance of civil defence, the speed and extent of implementation and, in some cases, its design. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has so far been responsible for collaboration between authorities. It is the opinion of the Swedish Democrats that MSB should have a broader responsibility as a civil defence authority. Firesummer 2018 and the current pandemic have unfortunately shown major shortcomings in current management functions and the overall leadership in crisis management and coordination. MSB should be given a clearer role in the management, control and coordination of crisis preparedness and civil defence. Mr President, I would like to During the journey to today's report, a number of studies have been set up, many of which have already presented their conclusions to the committee. We have been able, in the Committee on Defence, to take part, among other things, in the special investigator's view of the role of industry in the future total defence. I must admit, however, that what came out there neither convinced nor reassured me, on the contrary. The government and the relevant authorities have carried out a large number of reports and presentations for the committee. In particular, I recall when Minister Damberg informed the committee about the consultation of the security authorities on the Defence Committee's report Resistance. It is clear after that statement that a reestablished civil defence will cost a great deal of money. It is unrealistic to believe that the state should be able to finance everything we want and must do through tax revenue. It is clear to us Swedish democrats that the security stocks of the future must normally be maintained and financed by market players in the various segments, such as those in the food industry. We also believe that emergency stocks must initially meet three months' needs. For us, the building of emergency stocks is essential. In order to ensure that competition neutrality is maintained, legislation and regulations need to be developed. Even in a number of other areas, we see that market players need to take a great deal of responsibility, either voluntarily or through legislation and regulation. It concerns electricity supply, transport, pharmaceutical and medical supplies and many other areas. Swedish domestic production of food and other products and services necessary for emergency preparedness and for the perseverance of civil defence needs to be stimulated and encouraged. For this, legislative changes may be needed. This applies, for example, to the Public Procurement Act. It may be necessary to renegotiate various EU directives and even reshape the EU's agricultural policy in order to implement it. It is a difficult and in some parts it is demanding path, but it must be done. In order to speed up the process of emergency stocks, the Swedish Democrats have allocated 1.3 billion more than the government in their budget for 2021 – 2023. Unfortunately, a majority voted against it about a week ago. It was a pity, not least after the realization that we were not prepared for a global pandemic. Mr President, I would like to Almost all state, regional and municipal activities must in future be adapted to the needs of civil defence. It is positive that we are now taking steps forward to strengthen work against cyber threats to both public and private businesses. The report also includes an announcement to the government to investigate the form of civil duty, which is positive – and necessary in order to be able to man the future civil defence. I support all our well-thought-out reservations, but I only call for reservation 20.
i-925becd649952333-852	Mr President, I would like to It is a great day now that we are taking the debate on a forthcoming total defence decision. After all, the role of the Center Party in this parliamentary term is to negotiate, and we are actually very proud of the outcome. Today, a bill is being put forward which adds 27 billion, and this has not happened by itself. Someone said it's been muffled, but nothing could be more wrong. It is common, honest negotiations between four parties that have made us here. In addition, we are adding 3.8 billion to civil defence in a historic total defence decision. I am particularly proud of the Center Party's Daniel Bäckström and Liberals Allan Widman who have negotiated with the government and brought us here. We have a long journey ahead of us in the field of civil defence. It will take time to re-establish a civil defence. In practice, we have not had one in 25 years. We must also realize that we do not know exactly how to do this. I, too, would have liked a better investigation situation, but this is still an important start. You can also draw conclusions from the pandemic. It's taught us a lot. What we have experienced this year is hoped that the closest to a war situation our generation will experience. In the spring, when the pandemic was in its infancy, there was a certain suspension of world trade. In just a few weeks we saw how dramatic it was. We have learned that the world's factory is in China. That is true of reflection. If we were to have a crisis, or at worst war, with longer barriers to world trade, we now understand how difficult it would be to deal with. I will comment on the three main lines of the report, which the Center Party supports. Most money, 1 billion, goes to health care. It feels completely natural and right during the pandemic. It is clearly indicated that a nationally coherent system of medicines and medical supplies needs to be developed. Yes, we have learned that from the pandemic. It also scares me that much of the pharmaceutical production does not even exist in Europe. It is also, of course, a question of providing medical staff. The second largest allocation is to support municipalities, regions and county boards. The allocation is not quite clear, but the allocation is 600 million. I am pleased that we are receiving a great deal of support for municipalities and regions, because they are, of course, largely responsible for organising and implementing the construction. You can learn great lessons from the pilot activities carried out by the Gotland County Administrative Board, and it feels safe. The third largest item of expenditure in the civilian defence effort is food security. It's half a billion. For me as an old farmer, it is obvious that the country stays quite quickly without food. After a couple of weeks, it's a dead end. Today's decision may well be a trend break from what I have thought was an excessive trend in globalisation in food supply. The old knowledge was clear: Food must be produced locally. We are now recovering this knowledge by restoring civil defence. I also see that there is a clear link between Parliament's decisions on food strategy and that it actually needs to be implemented. We have about 50% self-sufficiency today, and that will not be enough if we are to have credible civil defence in the future. I will also comment on the role of business. No one should think we're going to build a civil defense as it looked in the '90s when it was closed. Much more is on private business today. You can learn a lot from how Finland works and how it engages the private business community, which makes a clear contribution. There is a queue for the long courses of Finnish defence for business representatives. If we follow the main principle of not building parallel supply chains, I think this will be a good thing, and the business community will have the main role in terms of storage, among other things. An important point where there needs to be a move is the supply of energy and electricity. Just the fact that in 2015, for example, we imported 24 million cubics of oil, mostly Russian, says that we need to do something radical. Sweden will increase all production of its own biofuels, ethanol, biogas, RME, HVO and in the long term electricity ectro fuels. In the long term, we will also evaluate whether we should also have our own stocks of domestic fuels. Civil and military defence is mutually reinforcing. That's the point of the total defense decision. It is clear that the Swedish Armed Forces must come to the fore when we talk about permit issues and the establishment of, for example, wind power and other renewable energy. It's not just defence skills we're talking about. It's total defence capabilities. This means that there must be a balance between the two, and so we must be prepared to release renewable energy into production facilities in coexistence. I do not think it is enough to point out how important this is to strengthen the sense of cohesion in the country. I very much believe in cohesion thanks to voluntary efforts to engage in voluntary organisations. I really believe that NGOs, along with the Home Guard, are key elements of the decision. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-925becd649952333-867	Mr President, I would like to Our country faces more complex threats to our security and independence that we need to be prepared to deal with. The global security situation is severely deteriorating, and it affects Sweden and our Europe. In the total defence bill, the government states that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. The ability of total defence must therefore continue to be strengthened, and Sweden's ability to cope with increased preparedness and extreme war needs to be strengthened on a broad front. Civil defence plays a crucial role in this work. We've heard it before, but it can stand to be repeated. Military defence depends entirely on the functioning of a number of functions in society. These include, for example, energy supply, health care, transport, food and drinking water supply. All of this will be able to assist the Armed Forces in an armed attack or war in our surrounding world. In addition, civilian defence shall be capable of protecting the civilian population. This is one of the most important tasks because we know that in the event of crisis and war, the weakest and most vulnerable in society are usually the most suffering. No matter who you are and where you live, know that when the difficult situation occurs, the community is there for you. That is why we have high ambitions with our work to rebuild civil defence. In the budget bill for 2021 and in the total defence bill, the government presented the biggest investment in civil defence in modern times. During 2021, civil defence will be strengthened by SEK 1 billion, and in the coming years the investment will increase gradually. Together with the funds added in 2018, the Government's proposal strengthens civil defence by a total of SEK 4.2 billion in 2025. The government's proposals for the direction and budget of civil defence are based entirely on an agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for both constructive and serious cooperation in these areas. I would also like to say that the agreement is in line with the opinion of the Committee on Defence, and I know that there is broad political agreement in this House on the importance of the initiative. Mr President, I would like to In the early 90s, large parts of the civil defence in Sweden were dismantled, while several important social functions were privatised. The pandemic in which we find ourselves has exposed shortcomings in society that demonstrate the need for robust emergency preparedness and a resilient civil defence. Not least, it has demonstrated the need for stronger security of supply. The government is now intensifying the reconstruction of civil defence to ensure that the resilience of society is fundamentally strengthened. The initiatives proposed by the government will also help strengthen society's capacity to prevent and deal with severe pressures on society in peacetime, such as pandemics, forest fires and cyber attacks. While building a stronger total defence, we also strengthen society's basic robustness and ability to cope with severe pressures in peacetime. During the defence decision-making period, it is particularly important that the work to strengthen the resilience of the most important social functions is developed. Let me give you some examples of areas. Whether it be peacetime crises or wars, health care must work. That is why health care is also the area of civil defence that will receive the most money during the forthcoming defence decision-making period. In the long term, efforts in this area will strengthen the capacity to rapidly increase the number of care places as well as the storage of medicines and medical supplies. Another area that needs to be robust is the energy supply in everyday life, during peacetime crises and at increased preparedness and war. We are also increasingly dependent on electronic communications that function and are stable. Financial services, such as pension payments, also need to be maintained. The functioning of this requires a functioning energy supply and stable electronic communications. Furthermore, safer food supply and safe drinking water supply are also capabilities that strengthen our society. Transport must work, otherwise shortages will quickly arise and large parts of our society will stop. All these areas are examples of civil defence affecting the whole of society and also areas specifically identified in the bill. During the forthcoming defence decision-making period, the government also sees a great need to clarify responsibilities and management relationships and create stronger coordination within civil defence. The Government therefore intends to decide on a structure for responsibility, management and coordination in civil defence at central, higher regional, regional and local levels. Our society should be robust enough to meet the entire threat picture that extends along a threat scale from peacetime threats to threats of armed aggression and war. We can see that so-called hybrid threats are already being directed at Sweden today. There needs to be a general development of capabilities in order to deal with the broader threat picture and the hybrid threats in peacetime. Strengthening information and cyber security is an important part of this. A key component of this is the national cybersecurity centre that was set up last week. The Centre will have a concrete impact on Sweden's ability to prevent, detect and manage antagonistic threats. During crisis situations, we know that the risk of spreading rumours can increase because people unconsciously or out of ignorance spread errors. But they can also become a breeding ground for misinformation where the sender deliberately spreads errors. In the event of crisis and war, it is essential that the entire population has access to accurate and uniform information. Civil defence shall be capable of maintaining the resilience of society to external pressures and shall contribute to ensuring the defence will. Therefore, Sweden needs a strong psychological defence. The Government's focus, which is also reflected in the bill, is to establish in 2022 an authority that will have the overall responsibility for developing and coordinating Sweden's psychological defence. Before I finish, I would like to mention in particular the voluntary defence organisations. When the state dismantled large parts of civil defence, the voluntary defence organisations continued to train and practice. They are today an important part of the readmission of civil defence. Therefore, the government is also investing in strengthening the voluntary defence organisations during the forthcoming defence decision-making period. We have a great deal of work ahead of us. Civil defence includes the whole of society, and reconstruction needs to be targeted over time. This will not happen overnight, but with the historic effort we take important steps in building a stronger total defence and thus a stronger society and a safer Sweden.
i-925becd649952333-885	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Government. It has been easy to obtain information, and we have had an exchange of information. Without names it has been easier on the civilian side than on the defence side. It's been harder to get there. I won't review any more than that. I agree with the latter on civil matters. The Christian Democrats have exactly the same view, namely that it is important to use civil society. I have three specific questions. My first question concerns the Defense Committee. An important issue for us was the order. We pointed out in particular that there would be a need for a total defence ministry. How does the government view the responsibility of a ministry? When you approached the questions that are now at MSB under the Ministry of Defense. I have another question, the cybersecurity centre. Whether it's a road club or something else, it's good to have a chairman. Now it's supposed to be a collaboration. In the UK, it is an authority, the FRA's sibling organization, that has, as it were, the feeder's responsibility. Is it not reasonable to give an authority the primary responsibility? Finally, I have a question about this with the emergency police. Is it not more reasonable to do this work in times of crisis and peace? Why should you just have it in war? It has been shown several times in history, even in the near future, that the police need reinforcements. Why not give them the opportunity to have emergency police even in peacetime?
i-925becd649952333-890	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for three very important questions – although they are quite extensive, all three! I'll start with the first one. It is always a choice of how to organize things in a government office. But it can be said that when you talk about civil defence, it is extremely complex. As I said in my speech, it concerns the whole of society in practice. Then we have chosen to have the civil defence organisation linked to the peace-time crisis preparedness and the efforts we need now. But we work well with the Ministry of Defence, and it is the Armed Forces that coordinate civil defence with military defence. I think that this system works well, especially when one thinks of an expansion phase in which very many authorities must be involved. But there may be differences of opinion about that. I think that the process we have had to develop this direction of civil defence shows that it is possible to work across ministerial boundaries and have a direction that I think there is quite broad support around in this House. But responsibility needs to be clarified, because that is the second part of the question. That's why we've set up an investigation. That investigation would have been set up more quickly if we did not have a certain kalabal – which the President led – after the last elections, when we did not have a regular government. As a result, investigations were postponed in time. I would have liked to have had those investigations in place more quickly, but that is one of the things that a transitional government does not do. New investigations are not being set up, so it moved forward in time. But it does come, and that is why we say clearly in the bill that we see before us that we are making decisions on the liability and management conditions during the defence decision-making period. I believe that this is an essential part of the reconstruction of civil defence. I'll have to take the other two questions in the next line.
i-925becd649952333-896	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I would like to add one more question, which is topical. I think that I and most other Swedes received a text message today – I got it in the middle of the debate – with information from the authorities: Read more on the website Crisis information. ..................................................... I just want to send you a question. I understand that it was a press conference; I do not know if the Government itself was on it. Denmark sent this out nine months ago. Then it was also a clear link. Why didn't they do the same here? Why do you not have a clear link when you do something like this? I understand that MSB, which is the responsibility of the Government, advised against this. I just want to take the opportunity to take a topical question to understand a little more how you thought there. It's part of a crisis situation to be able to use text messages. I think they're a good idea. But can the Government take some time and initiate us in the way we thought? I think there are quite a few who wonder about that.
i-925becd649952333-900	Mr President, I would like to I will take the last question first because it is up to date. The government wanted to work to reach out to people in the country individually. We have been talking about it for a long time. We have been looking for an opportunity when it is perceived as quite correct to remind the entire Swedish people, and now it became from today new national guidelines for how to behave in Sweden. It was a good opportunity to do this. Reporting is about MSB having refused to send an important message to the public, which is something other than the text we have sent out now. It is not the government that is responsible for the content. We are responsible for ensuring that the authorities send out the text message, but the content is the responsibility of the authorities. From what I understand, MSB has listened to the police, who were afraid that there might be fraud associated with such mailings. It is said to be a mailing from an authority, and you click on a link and believe that you are on the right page but are not. There may be differences of opinion on this, but the government has not taken a position on it. It is the authorities who decide what is stated in the communication. With regard to the organisational issue of the cybersecurity centre, one can organise things in different ways, as I said. The Swedish tradition usually is to have endlessly long investigations that twist and turn everything around and come up with a precise and perfect solution. I thought we should lose too much time on it, and so we in the government agreed: we are making decisions now. We will start with the centre and start with the four most affected authorities. Everyone retains their powers and responsibilities, and the four authorities want to work in close cooperation with each other. In a year's time, we'll assess whether we need further control of this. But I believe that basically it is not an authority that will ward off all cyber threats to Sweden. Several authorities need to be involved, which is why we have chosen to build on the interaction between four different authorities at the start of the new cybersecurity centre. Then we get started faster and can build it up faster.
i-925becd649952333-906	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, we Swedish democrats have seen that the management function of civil defence crisis management is not optimal. We want to give MSB a clearer role to control, manage and control crisis preparedness in civil defence. Does the Home Secretary share our view of the problem? I received some of the answer during the speech, but the Minister for the Interior may be able to develop how the future governance structure is viewed. We can also say that a reestablished civil defence system will cost a great deal of money. We in the Swedish Democrats have been thinking about how we want to finance, above all, the part concerning emergency stocks but also many other parts. We believe that emergency stocks are an essential part and something very important in terms of civil defence. Does the government share this assessment, and what is the government's funding plan for emergency stocks? Finally, over the last three decades, a great deal of knowledge has been lost in the municipalities, county boards, regions and authorities. How does the government intend to meet the training needs in order to address them urgently?
i-925becd649952333-910	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström! I'll take the last question first. Already of the 400 million that we set aside in 2018, very much has gone to this type of investment in agencies and organisations – to hire people to work continuously to get the level of knowledge widely in society. Now we are taking a huge step forward with the 3.8 new billions. It is clear that some of the resources will go to specific services that will work with this in the long term, both at various monitoring authorities and in regions and municipalities to work with civil defence in the future. Some of the money will be distributed a little later, when responsible management and coordination are done with their investigation, because that's when we see where the responsibility is going to land. I share the view that the role of MSB is important in civil defence. That is why the investigation that sits also looks specifically at MSB's role in civil defence. I look forward to hearing the results of the investigation. I don't want to precede the investigation's report because it's coming at the beginning of the year. On the other hand, I note that the Government has already put forward proposals and got through in the Riksdag that MSB should have a clearer role when it comes to civil protection in Sweden. MSB now has the opportunity to do what it really took the right to do during the major forest fires, to also allocate resources around Sweden, so MSB has in fact already gained an even clearer role in the very important area of civil protection. As far as security of supply is concerned, I do not think I have time for everything today, at least not in the 20 seconds I have left. But it is an issue that is central. We've already given FOI a mission. They have returned with a report on what we should be thinking about when we are now giving an investigation in order to strengthen Swedish security of supply. It is reasonable that there should be a combination of requirements for different actors but also fee financing, much like Finland has had it when building up its security of supply.
i-925becd649952333-916	Mr President, I would like to Resistance, which forms the basis for civil defence among other things, came about two before Värnkraft, which forms the basis of military defence. We have dealt with military defence in this report and in the budget as well. It has clarified in detail the financing and management and structure up to 2025. I understood that, in a previous change of line, the Minister for the Interior blamed that for three and a half months there was no government, that there was a transitional government then, and that, for that reason, investigations could not be started. However, it has had a little over two years more than military defence to initiate investigations into the management structure and other aspects of civil defence and funding. You should have had it in place by now, and it's not really in place. So I do not really buy that solution, and I think there is a responsibility there. The government had the opportunity to start these investigations and get started with the work during the last term of office. I want a point of view on that, because it still bears witness to a little slowness. When it comes to the text that has expired today, I received from a good friend who is Danish a copy of the Danish text message. I think it expired on 13 March. It was a comprehensive message, not only with a link previously provided, but also with a very comprehensive text on how to react to the new pandemic situation that prevailed at the time. I would not even be able to read out the whole, especially in Danish, during these two minutes. Then I might think that what came was a little fuzzy. What was the purpose? If it was that the government wanted to show momentum, it was eight nine months too late. I think it should have been taken up, but it would have been nine months ago if it were considered necessary.
i-925becd649952333-922	Mr President, I would like to You can always think about when you would have done things to rebuild civil defence. I can only say that, after many years of discussion, we have now set aside money and resources for the massive expansion of civil defence and the withdrawal of capabilities. I'm proud of that. I also see that there is broad consensus in Parliament on this. However, it is more complicated when we are going to build civil defence than when we change military defence. For a long time, we have had plans for military defence. We have had ideas about what to do with military defence, but we have not really had the money for the expansion of military defence. Now we get it, and now the military defence is growing for a very short time. It has done so, and it will do so in the years to come. Civil defence must be preceded by more investigation, because society does not look the same as when it dismantled civil defence. That is why civil defence is somewhat behind in development, and I regret that. However, I am proud that we are now taking this collective approach and have a plan for how readmission is to take place. Finally, and again, I and the government take no responsibility for the content of the text message. However, I think it is quite the right time now, with the burden we have in health care right now. We see a far too large spread of infection. We are now facing the Christmas and New Year holidays, and people have heard for a long time that there are advice and recommendations to be taken into account. However, it is now time to decide to change your behaviour, and then there is an opportunity to actually remind people. I do not believe that this is the decisive effort in terms of communication, but it is another way of reminding us that we have not used before. Now people have to think and think: How do I plan my Christmas holiday? What about the shopping of Christmas gifts? This is where it has to be done properly, so that we do not have an increased spread of infection and therefore more deaths in Sweden. I think it is the right time to do this now to ensure that the vector curve is broken and that health care needs are met in the future.
i-925becd649952333-928	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating the government on sending out the text. Everyone's talking about it, so I think it was fortunate that way. I haven't got it yet, but maybe it will. I would like to ask the Minister for Home Affairs about civil service. This report, on which we will decide tomorrow, proposes an announcement to the government of an investigation into a modern civil duty. I'm very happy about that. I hope tomorrow I will have a motion approved by Parliament. It's one as a left-winger not very spoiled with, so it's fun. I also believe that this is an important issue. I would like to anticipate our decision tomorrow and hear what the government's attitude is towards a modern civil duty that complements military military military service.
i-925becd649952333-930	Mr President, I would like to In many areas of civil defence, staff are by far the most important resource. Now that we are talking about rebuilding the capability of civil defence, we are talking a great deal about the issue of personnel. It is about ensuring both efficient and efficient human resources both in crisis and in the event of war. I think the question is very important. What we are trying to describe in the bill is that there are several different parts in this. The basic is the employees – in health care, in the police, in emergency services. They get even greater tasks in the event of, for example, a war, so it is important. But we also have the voluntary defence organisations, and there is the question of the system of duties. What we are writing is that we will have to review the supply of personnel in civil defence. In various areas of civil defence, the needs analysis has come to different stages. It has not been spesat exactly how much personnel you need in the event of war. This must be done first, to compare with the situation we have today and to see what we can add to it, but also whether we have a need for the duty system. I think that the assessment also needs to draw experience of how we have worked with the issues in the past. We write in the bill that previous experiences from different solutions need to be taken into account. Civil duty is part of this. The time is therefore: first needs analysis, then compare with the current situation, an escalation situation and the voluntary organisations and then a discussion on civil duty. I believe that the bill is taking an increase in financial terms in order to be able, at the end of the defence decision-making period, de facto to initiate civil service obligations with the resources set aside. I think we've taken heights for that. But you have to do the human resources analysis first, before deciding exactly what to do with civil service.
i-925becd649952333-935	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to the government returning with some form of investigation into civil duty or any similar system. I believe that the pandemic we have been in has been an eye-opener for many people, especially for many young people who may not have experienced this type of crisis in the past. I believe that military service, as it grows, also points to an opportunity for many ordinary people and ordinary young people to actually contribute and play their part. I hope that the government will take advantage of this and come back – perhaps not superduperly fast, because these are still difficult issues, but still relatively quickly – and say whether this is a system that we can use. Now we have a majority in Parliament for some kind of civil duty that actually means a duty for young people to contribute to society, to learn something that can be important in a crisis situation. As the Government says, we have a great need for staff for the entire welfare. Civil duty could be a step in for a young person who can then acquire a regular education, for example in health care or in other sectors of social importance or occupations. I very much hope that the government will take this opportunity and come back with something that is good.
i-925becd649952333-939	Mr President, I would like to I can guarantee that human resources will be one of the focus areas. It is a little bit the backbone of the entire development of civil defence. I can only say, before we leave this altogether, that we have done a few things to date. The important position of war within the government is basically clear. The authorities have placed their personnel at war and thus made a needs analysis of their operations. Municipalities and regions are now in the middle of a job where they have begun to deploy their personnel. It has gone a little differently quickly and different stages have been made, but this analysis is hugely central to the next stage of the needs analysis. So we have started a job here. I also note that interest in applying for nursing education has increased. I can't take poison on it, but at least I saw a news headline about it. It shows that young people can now have an interest in doing something that really matters in society and training themselves to be something important. I believe it. We must also see the issue of duty as a wider whole. We need to be able to value it. If we are to keep society together, have a defence readiness and a resilience, it is based on the will and ability of all people to contribute to defence efforts. Part of it will be military, other efforts will be civilian. That question must definitely be included when we conduct an investigation that looks at our need for staff, but also the plans we need in the future. I also think it is interesting to consider how much of this review should be about increased preparedness and perhaps a little grey zone situation and what needs we have then.
i-925becd649952333-944	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Minister for the Interior is talking about a robust energy supply. That is what my question is about too. Basically, I see a huge advantage with the Swedish climate change that we are currently doing. It means that we can replace insecure, imported energy with domestic, environmentally friendly energy production. But it does require that we think in a new way. Let me give you an example. Hybrid and LKAB in Norrbotten are moving towards hydrogen power, and if this is to be possible, you must not only release the plants themselves, but actually release large wind farms. In practice, it is wind power that we are replacing nuclear power with, and there will be a huge need for wind power. Norrbotten is currently blocked to about 90 percent by the Swedish Armed Forces' interests and what is called low-flying areas. This means that we may be able to build facilities, but we will not be able to cope with the supply of electricity. My specific question is: Is the Minister of the Interior prepared to work towards a greater balance in the Swedish Armed Forces' actions in the area of licensing so that we take into account not only the military needs but also the civilian needs now that we have a total defence bill?
i-3aMg7xHAQ6PLq5twDQMact	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for an important question! The risk of having a discussion about total defence, especially civil defence, is that it will be very broad because it covers all areas of society. This bill will not solve all the balance issues that exist between different interests – then it would not have ended in scope. But I want to make it clear that what we are pointing out in the proposal is that this climate change creates new opportunities for a robust energy supply. I think it is important to see that the expansion of fossil-free energy that we have across Sweden also creates greater security of supply in the event of a crisis or at worst war. The transition and the more renewable energy sources that are more locally distributed across the country create a new opportunity for Sweden as a country and for total defence. I believe that this total defence bill by holding together a thought about how we develop our defence capabilities also creates momentum where you will discuss different interests and weigh them against each other. However, we should not overlook the fact that military defence must also have the right to highlight its needs in a state-of-the-art process or in the question of balancing. I do not think we are getting away from all the balance discussions that may be needed in the future. This particular bill is not the answer to all the questions.
i-925becd649952333-952	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. I didn't expect this bill to be the answer to all the questions. However, after working for seven years as a national wind power coordinator under the government, I would like to state that the Swedish Armed Forces are blocking 45 per cent of Sweden's surface area for wind power to be established. It doesn't make sense to keep it that way, if you're going to be all crass. We have almost 50 terawatt hours of wind power production, but we need at least 50 more – maybe 100 more. Then there will be large-scale wind power production on land and at sea. If this is to be possible, new permits are needed, because the permits we have that have made it possible to produce 50 terawatt hours are over. Then you have to think of total defence and not just military defence. Today, the military has only looked at the military aspect and their national interests. We must now also consider a robust energy supply that is important and good for our overall security. I am very much looking forward to this discussion. I believe that it will be crucial for a better balance between the interests of the defence, which we shall certainly continue to take into account, and the interests of the total defence.
i-925becd649952333-957	Mr President, I would like to I guess I have no more to say in substance on this issue than that I have great respect for Lars Thomsson's knowledge and experience in this area. The collaboration we have had in Sweden when it comes to trying to find places where wind power can be expanded has so far proved to be very successful. We have expanded wind power much faster than many thought possible. When I was Minister for Enterprise and Innovation, I had the privilege of joining Piteå when Europe's largest land-based wind farm was expanded. This is very important for the Swedish economy and for jobs, but it is also about our energy supply, both in peacetime and in times of crisis, that we have a robust energy system. I look forward to hearing more from Lars Thomsson's thoughts on these issues in the future.
i-925becd649952333-961	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with Mikael Oscarsson's commendation to the Minister. I think this civil defence thing is handled well. I am grateful for that, and I appreciate a good debate. I have some questions about the investigation into responsibility, management and coordination. It's been delayed almost a year. Does the Minister see any problems with this delay in clarifying responsibilities and management structures? How will this be handled? Then I also wonder about the announcement on civil service that we hope will go through tomorrow: how quickly does the Minister think we can see any result and that we actually get something back? We are already one step behind in the field of civil defence and really need to be speeded up. Finally, I also have questions about emergency stocks, which have been discussed by previous questioners. Does the Minister think that cooperation with the business community will be necessary? Is this something that the Business Council should handle, and when can we then see a Business Council?
i-925becd649952333-965	Mr President, I would like to I am blushing almost with all the praise that I receive in this Chamber! Usually you don't get it when you have debates here. But it does say something about there being a rather broad political consensus on the direction, that the Defence Committee did a good pre-work in these parts and that there is a direction that we broadly agree on, although we can think about details and certain parts. If it involves major problems that the investigation did not get started so quickly and that it thus delivers its results later, my answer is that it is always better if an investigation comes quickly than later. But I see that we have planned this defence decision-making period in such a way that there are resources and money to translate and take decisions on civil defence responsibilities and management. I see it as my role as Minister of the Interior during this period to take this forward so that we get as far as possible and take decisions in the government in the future as jackets in the budgetary efforts that we have set aside for the defence decision-making period. In that part, I'm not so worried. As far as emergency stocks are concerned, cooperation with industry is crucial, as several sectors of the sector concerned are currently driven by industry. Then there must be close cooperation. Some sectors already have cooperation and are discussing rather eagerly. It discusses the transport sector and the food sector and how to look at the issue of stocks. But that is why we want a proper investigation that looks at what is society's coordinating role and function in this. I look forward to having a dialogue with the business community throughout the journey, both with the national perspective and even more in the respective sector, because it is there that very much of the concrete discussions and settlements on remuneration issues and other future issues need to be dealt with.
i-925becd649952333-970	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I really agree that the defense committee came up with a lot of good things. I just think it is a pity that we cannot agree on long-term funding for this, because I think that everyone would be valiant. I did not intend to ask this question, but several Members asked earlier about today's text messages. The Minister has already replied that the government wanted to reach out to more people and that they have been looking for an opportunity to make such a mass mailing. Then the question is, have you been looking for it for nine months? You have said that you do not take responsibility for the content but still want people to change behaviour. Can the minister tell me what you were thinking?
i-925becd649952333-973	Mr President, I would like to We have been having discussions over a long period of time on technically feasible solutions. It was solved with the fine collaboration that we had with the major operators in Sweden, who have given capacity and also bear the cost of this mass mailing. It was a discussion if we were to use important communication to the public, but we chose not to go ahead with it because the legislation is probably a little too tight to use it in this way in a pandemic that is long-term and not acute in that way. The government is commissioning it to be implemented. We do not decide, according to the management model that we have, the content. So it is not the government that sends the text message, it is the other thing that does, and then the authorities have come to the conclusion that it should say what it says in the message. I think the whole discussion will be a reminder that we need to think about it. It gives another opportunity to talk about what recommendations and advice are now in force. These are not general tips, but it is now time to change your behaviour. And you, me and us together for the next few weeks. It determines very much what the spread of infection we will have during Christmas and New Year, and that was the purpose of this. I guess it's a good thing it's being discussed.
i-925becd649952333-977	Mr President, I would like to Integration problems are one of today's major societal challenges. How we succeed in ensuring that people enter the labour market and become part of Swedish society will be crucial to ensuring the cohesion of the country. Many of the reforms that Sweden needs for increased integration are also reforms to increase gender equality. Real freedom and independence begin with their own income. When women work and earn their own income, the possibility of self-determination and the ability to make their own decisions about their lives increases. Sweden should be a country where you can start with almost nothing and get almost as far as you want, where what you do and where you are going is more important than where you come from. A yes to staying in Sweden should also mean a yes to being able to enter society. That is not the case today. Mr President, I would like to There is a need for a new integration policy with higher demands and expectations, focusing on languages, on jobs and on common values. Real integration begins with the Swedish language. The language should go as a red thread from new arrivals via new employee to new Swedish citizens. Too many immigrants to Sweden are currently stuck in the supply of benefits. The absence of reforms in recent years, combined with a very large migration of asylum, has turned the challenge of integration into an acute problem. Forecasts showed that the number of long-term unemployed would increase to the clearly highest measured levels after the turn of the millennium even before the Corona crisis was a fact. Mr President, I would like to Never before have the conditions for groups that are far from the labour market been as bad even before a crisis struck. Sweden is now at risk of widespread unemployment which will affect those who are already far from the labour market or who are new in our country the most. The importance of strong measures to prevent and break exclusion has never been greater. An important basic principle of integration efforts following the acute crisis should be to focus clearly on self-sufficiency. We Moderates have proposals to get more people into the labour market and into self-sufficiency in the past. It is about the introduction of entry jobs, so that more people with lower education and shorter work experience can learn the job at work, better opportunities to start a business as new arrivals, clearer requirements to learn Swedish, language requirements for citizenship, livelihood requirements for family immigration, clearer requirements and focus on Swedish values, new crime-subscriptions, increased penalties, review of the Discrimination Act and to counteract parallel societies and oppression, to name but a few suggestions. After you have come to Sweden and received a residence permit, you can participate in Arbetsförmedlingen's establishment programme during their first two years here. There, the road to integration and self-sufficiency should start. However, the establishment program delivers very poor results. There is a need for clearer requirements to learn Swedish and to train to meet the requirements of the Swedish labour market. Since the Public Employment Service is clearly showing significant shortcomings and the results for the establishment of new arrivals are totally unacceptable, we Moderates believe, for example, that municipalities that want to be able to take over responsibility for the integration and establishment of new arrivals. Mr President, I would like to Those who are absolutely the furthest from the labour market, and who may live in the greatest freedom in Sweden today, are women born abroad. We know that in Sweden today only half of the women born outside Europe are working. In the case of women born outside Europe who have a background with a short education, only one third goes to work. Two-thirds don't. These women lack their own income and the ability to make independent decisions about their own lives. We've let these women down. They are all too often left at home in a needless dependency on benefits. It is not protecting these women's ability to self-determination. For low-income earners, it is not good enough to move from a benefit to a job. This has a major impact on integration and also on gender equality. In order for it to pay better to work, we therefore want to introduce an additional job tax deduction, which means reduced tax rates for everyone who works. Today, the possibility of stacking allowances on one another, such as child allowances, multi-child allowances, housing allowances and subsistence allowances, greatly reduces the incentives to take up a job instead. In particular, this prevents women from coming to work, as the driving forces are decreasing in line with the number of children. In Sweden, a self-evident principle should apply: No one should work and earn more money from grants than from work. That should be a matter of course. Mr President, I would like to We therefore want to implement a major subsidy reform. In order for the replacement and benefit systems not to be brake blocks for integration or even to affect the legitimacy of the system, new arrivals will gradually become more involved in the right to various benefits and social benefits. Full access to Swedish grants and benefits should be obtained only through one's own work. It is unacceptable that, in one of the world's most equal countries, we now see equality in the area by area going in the wrong direction. The number of rape reports is increasing, and young women's exposure to sexual offences in Sweden has increased by 360 per cent since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. Only 5 out of 100 rapes lead to conviction. Mr President, I would like to In the wake of isolation and anxiety, alarm reports show that violence in close relationships is increasing. Sweden urgently needs better protection for women who are victims of violence. During the pandemic, it has become more difficult to seek help when vulnerable, often women, are forced to stay home with their perpetrator. The Council's preliminary statistics for March show an increase in the abuse of women in a relationship. The Moderates propose to allocate additional funds to the National Centre for Women's Peace and to ensure that women's shelters have sufficient support and preparedness. The government has for a long time eroded the work line, and this has significant consequences for both integration and gender equality. Year after year, the Red-Green Government has helped to dismantle the work line in favour of tax increases and extended benefit systems. Mr President, I would like to The integration of newly arrived immigrants and the fact that we have an equal society is a major societal challenge. It is time that the government now takes it very seriously.
i-925becd649952333-995	Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight two different points in the debate. This concerns, on the one hand, the material content of the field of expenditure, that is to say, what it funds in concrete terms, and, on the other hand, the theoretical starting points which form the basis of integration policy in the broader perspective, i.e. which ideological considerations form the basis of the area of expenditure itself. When we discuss integration issues in this House, the discussion very often ends up in matters of an economic nature, such as grants or forms of employment. I think that this perspective dominates far too much and that the more in-depth issues are left out. Sweden today suffers from a plethora of problems based on the fact that a large group of foreign-born and second-generation immigrants, in particular, live in some isolation from the majority society. Isolation leads to the inheritance of exclusion and gives rise to material and knowledge-based poverty and cultural values that glorify crime, religious separatism or a certain disregard of the majority society. Sweden is the country within the OECD that spends the most money on so-called integration policies but is at the same time probably the country with the greatest problems with segregation. The question is whether this is a paradox, or does it have a logical connection? Can the problem of segregation grow as a result of integration policy, not the fact that the problems are growing despite it? In order to examine this, I would like to go back to the theoretical starting points underlying the area of expenditure and integration policy. They are expressed in particular in a proposal called Sweden, the future and diversity – from immigration policy to integration policy and the study on which it was based. According to the preparatory work, integration policy is based on both the freedom of choice objective, i.e. it should be entirely up to the immigrant to Sweden to choose to what extent they want to become part of Swedish culture and the majority society. Firstly, it is based on the objective of equality, i.e. equal rights and opportunities for all regardless of ethnic or cultural background. In practice, this means that a person who comes to Sweden and who chooses not to complement his or her cultural background by, for example, learning the Swedish language and learning how Swedish culture, society, economy and the labour market work should have the same opportunities and rights to welfare systems as another person who makes a great effort to do all of this. We simply do not see this as reasonable. It is crystal clear that economic segregation is a direct consequence of these two objectives, and I would also like to stress to the House that I actually know what I am talking about. I am, as far as I know, the only participant in the debate who has moved to a completely foreign country at an adult age and has itself gone through an integration process. I have lived and worked outside Europe for about six years, and for a couple of years I was a fairly well - adapted immigrant in Japan. I know that this process – becoming part of a completely new culture and a completely new country – requires hard work, patience, willingness to compromise with values and willingness to adapt to a completely different workplace culture, which can be very difficult. It also requires a willingness to study languages at night, even if you do not feel like it, and often a willingness to start over from the bottom of the labour market ladder. In many cases none of this will happen as long as it is optional, and certainly not as long as the welfare system as a whole exists to compensate those people who choose not to do their best. Another thing I think important to talk about in this context is the importance of standards and values. The proposal I mentioned earlier states as follows. The integration policy should make it easier for the individual to integrate old and new life patterns and lifestyles as she wishes. This is a prerequisite for man to develop an entire identity and be proud of his background. – – A multicultural society consists of a diversity of values and approaches that gradually affect each other. ..................................................... If we ignore the doubtful hypothesis that multiculturalism in Sweden is a prerequisite for foreigners to feel proud of their background, which is nonsense in my view, I would like to focus a little on the idea of a diversity of values. One assessment that has become more and more common in recent years is that of so-called honour, as everyone in this House is well aware. A little simplistic means that the family or clan sees women as property rather than people. The family or clan sees it as their task to protect the property by restricting its freedom of movement, sexua itte or life choices in various ways. On the one hand, all parties in this House claim that they want to fight the culture of honour in different ways, but on the other hand, all parties in this House – except the Swedish Democrats – are behind the idea of a diversity of values without any restrictive principles. All values are welcome. That is what is explicitly stated in the document, which everyone here except us has voted for. There is a clear contradiction between the objective of freedom of choice and the objective of diversity of values. It occurs if, for example, the wife and children of a family where the father chooses to hold on to the standard of honor will not be allowed to choose to become part of the Swedish culture and the gender equality standard that applies here, if they wish. Freedom to choose, as in this case, may mean a restriction of freedom for someone else. Mr President, I would like to The goal of a diversity of values without a restrictive principle has made Sweden a magnet for people who want to live in a way that they know other Western countries would not accept. The result of this diversity of values is becoming more and more evident: balcony girls, forced marriages for children, honour violence, terror-war travel, gender-segregated schools, gender-segregated civil dialogues, gender-segregated bathhouses, and more. Although these elements of the cultural landscape sometimes conflict with Swedish law, and often conflict with what at least I consider acceptable in a democratic society, behaviour is in line with the starting points of integration policy, namely greater diversity of values. Let me turn to the material content of the expenditure area. It is very much in line with the theoretical starting points. The expenditure area is based on the creation of parallel societies, for example through support for ethnically based associations. It pays for pure pleasures such as power yoga, horse sports and fishing trips for asylum seekers, i.e. people who do not even have a residence permit in Sweden, and funds projects whose official purpose is to counteract segregation but which at best have a limited effect on the problem. The grant against segregation, for example, has financed a gender-segregated so-called civil dialogue, which means that the Swedish state shows its support in action for the standard of honor that says that women are subordinate and not allowed to stay in the same place as men. The same grant has financed a so-called civil society organisation in Malmö, led by a person who boasts of his/her background in a terrorist group guilty of war crimes. It is a person who actively spreads anti-Semitic hate speech in social media. The funding for ethnically based associations finances an organisation for people with roots in Azerbaijan. The president of the organisation spreads pure war propaganda and is open to the fact that he wants to wipe out Armenia as a state. This is nothing new. A couple of years ago, the chairman of a certain Turkish association was sentenced to incitement to ethnic groups after he stood and shouted, death to the Armenians, so loud that it was heard all the way from Sergels to the Swedish Parliament. However, this made no impression on MUCF, which continues to pay out about half a million dollars a year to this organization. I could go on for a while, but I don't think it matters. I honestly do not believe that there is a scandal in the area of expenditure that is sufficiently serious for the government to realise that at best this is a huge waste of money but is probably purely counterproductive. The only conclusion that can logically be drawn from the expenditure area is that segregation in Sweden has become worse, not despite integration policy but because of it. Finally, I would like to endorse the reservation.
i-925becd649952333-1017	Mr President, I would like to I'm not really very happy to ask for a line, but I couldn't really hold on today. There were a lot of upper words in your speech, Ludvig Aspling – it was the glorification of crime and terrorism, and it was nonsense, scandal and a gigantic waste. It was hard to miss that you are very anti-the concept of... diversity. However, I am thinking about what the alternative might be for Ludvig Aspling. Is that stupid? I also wonder how Ludvig and the Swedish Democrats see that it benefits Sweden. I am also concerned that the Swedish Democrats repeatedly criticise the proposals for solutions that other parties come up with, while their own proposals on how to address the challenges we have in our society shine with their absence. Given that, in these pandemic times, 30 percent of doctors and 14 percent of nurses in Sweden have a foreign background and that tens of thousands of people with a foreign background wake up every morning, go to work and help our society to stand up and develop, I can also find it extremely sad to hear Ludvig Aspling's rhetoric and how he describes foreign born and the contribution they make to our society.
i-925becd649952333-1019	Mr President, I would like to I use the words I think the context requires, Alireza, no more or less. It is not that we are opposed to diversity at all levels, but what I highlighted in my speech is the idea of a diversity of values without a restrictive principle. I'll explain to Alireza what I mean. If I had written the bill I mentioned in the speech, I would have written something in the sense of a diversity of values within the framework of what is acceptable in a democratic society, within the framework of what is contained in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. I had written something like that, that is to say, limiting the diversity of values that we can accept. As it says now, it is a variety of values, end of story, which means that anything is acceptable under this bill. We're not behind that. As for the fact that there are a lot of people with foreign background working in health care, I know about it; my wife is one of them. So it's nothing I've missed, Alireza. Nor is it the case that I am criticising any individual, but the criticism I made in my speech is directed at the Government Office – in short against the politicians who decide that we should spend a great deal of money in a field of expenditure that is of very little use. If you are going to spend taxpayers' money on something, you have to show the effect, and the impact of integration policies and of this area of expenditure has not materialised. I think Alireza can agree with that. To say that criticism of the impact of a failed integration policy would be criticism of individuals with foreign background is nonsense, Alireza. That's not true.
i-925becd649952333-1023	I would remind both speakers that we do not usually address each other with you and that we usually use both first and last names when we talk to or about each other.
i-925becd649952333-1024	Mr President, I would like to What I react to and have not received an answer to is what the Swedish democrats' proposals for solutions might look like. When I look through the reservations and motions of the Swedish Democrats, I do not see that there are any proposals. What I see, instead, is a black-painting of our society that lacks reality. Of course, we agree that there are challenges in our society, and certainly we agree that the impact of the efforts that have been made in the past may not have been very good. I can certainly admit that. But what I miss is what the alternative solutions of the Swedish democrats might look like. I would like to know honestly whether the ultimate goal of the Swedish Democrats is assimilation and not integration, and if so why the Swedish Democrats and Ludvig Aspling do not speak clearly about this.
i-925becd649952333-1026	Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna help Alireza Akhondi a little on the way. Our policy in this area is not in the motion that Alireza is talking about, but the integration challenge is raised in 18 of the committee movements of the Swedish Democrats. It is committee movements that exist in other committees, which means that this is in the committee exercise that is about school, in the one that is about culture and, I believe, in the one that is about health care. There are therefore a number of different proposals, but they are spread over various committee movements. If Alireza Akhondi goes to Parliament's website and searches for integration and then chooses the movements that come from our party, he will find all the suggestions there. If Alireza Akhondi says that we have spent a great deal of money on this in terms of the results of integration policy, but that the results have not been achieved, then we are in agreement. What he then calls black-painting may be that I speak plainly and I am honest with the one who is watching this debate. I am honest and say as it is, namely that this has not worked. Alireza Akhondi may prefer to wrap this in cotton candy and say: We shouldn't talk about that much, but it's best to keep it at a low level. ..................................................... As far as Alireza Akhondi is concerned, regarding diversity and elements of multiculturalism, I would like to say that I read Japanese night stories for my children. I don't mind foreign culture like that. I want to be clear about that.
i-925becd649952333-1029	Mr President, I would like to It is useful to have the opportunity to debate the draft state budget by areas of expenditure, as we are doing today. This makes it possible to see more budget lines and what they mean for people and for the development of society. At the same time, there are some inconveniences. The Left Party, as an opposition party, has a coherent alternative draft budget, but the spending framework proposed by us has fallen into a previous vote. That is why we have described our policy in specific opinions in the subsequent budget discussion in the committees. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, of course, we have such an opinion in this report too. With regard to the current expenditure area, gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants, our draft budget only departs from one point, to which I shall return shortly. But the fact is that, when it comes to gender equality and establishment, there is a lot that we would like to do in another way – change – and that we also have proposals for. It is both a perspective on economic policy as a whole and a question of concrete proposals, but many of them end up in other areas of expenditure in purely budgetary terms. Mr President, I would like to In the Left Party Budget Movement The way out of the crisis – a plan for equality and green transition, we present extensive efforts on welfare and on a reformed tax system. The aim is to address the major real societal problems in our country. We must face inequality, which has grown faster in Sweden than in virtually all other industrialised countries, and we must create the conditions for success in the green transition. When politics does not take into account the fact that our lives are connected in a society, the rich draw away. Then the welfare risks collapsing and the climate will collapse. But when we do things together, we can strengthen welfare, increase freedom for the vast majority and succeed in the necessary climate change. In last year's budget bill, the government and its market-fundamentalist support parties chose to spend billions on tax subsidies for domestic services, on kitchen renovations and on reduced income tax for high-income earners rather than investing in securing welfare's long-term financing or strengthening productivity in the Swedish economy. Unfortunately, in this year's budget proposal, the government is taking this policy to a new level. The Left Party chooses a different path. Instead, we spend the big money on welfare to create better quality, better working conditions, more jobs and, not least, more welfare. We allocate approximately SEK 70 billion more than the government to reforms aimed at building a robust, sustainable and fair society for all. The Left Party has the same financial savings as the government, which means that our reforms are financed through increased tax revenues that high income earners and people with large wealth and property income are allowed to bear. A functioning general welfare is, of course, in practice a central element in the work for gender equality. Even more clearly, the successful establishment of newcomers depends heavily on a general, solidarity-based welfare system and an active labour market policy, which, unfortunately, the government and the cooperation parties have grossly mismanagement and abused. We will come back to that later this week in this House. However, Mr President, the budget line in which we have another proposal in this area of expenditure concerns the question of what is called amnesty for the unaccompanied young people who have been in Sweden for more than a year. I am saying amnesty because it is a common concept which is also used by the large, popular, humanitarian movement which reminds us of the conditions of this group of citizens of our country. Another concept that could be used is regularisation. It is therefore a question of giving a reasonable legal status to people who are here, who study and work here, who speak Swedish and who have their lives attached to the country of which we are all part. At the same time, this is a group that is repeatedly described in terms that closely resemble the unflowered racism of the interwar period. It is a social problem that is greater than we can talk about today. We should be able to say anything about people, and soon we should also be able to treat them as a whole. This is also not a loose beer hall talk, but an official prose from the highest levels of command in society. But let us remember what the amnesty proposal is about in substance. It is a question of us as legislators taking our responsibility for the situation of inhumane legal uncertainty created by decisions of the Swedish Government and the Riksdag. The majority of the unaccompanied have come to Sweden as a child to seek refuge from war, persecution and oppression. Most have come from Afghanistan, even today perhaps the most dangerous country in the world. It is a country where rockets are currently being fired at the very airport to which deportations are supposed to take place. They should not just be so that they should be protected. Many of them would also have got it with the Swedish rules that were in force when they came or started their journey. Despite promises and pledges, they have suffered from tighter rules and changed practices. It is in a significant number of cases that the length of the proceedings itself has de facto deprived children of their right to asylum. That is what requires political responsibility. In addition to the formal legal bases, it is also a question of resolving a concrete situation in a sensible and pragmatic way. These young people, their friends and their families, both in countries of origin and in Sweden, are not only exposed to undue anxiety. In addition, placing people in limbo is an effective way of undermining the process of integration that is on everyone's lips. Desperation, the lack of solid ground under its feet, generates excellent material for all sorts of foam companies and criminals to profit from. Why? Because both government representatives and support parties and right-wing opposition want to play signal politics. Just last week, we saw how we didn't even want to make a little corona adaptation to the so-called high school law. A variety of measures have been taken to make life a little easier for all sorts of groups in this difficult time. But the existential problems created for these young people when the labour market dives, the parliament did not want to know. It's a systemic malice from above. It makes Sweden colder and harder. It is a policy that is a disgrace to our country. Roundingly, Mr President, what can be seen when looking at the various requests dealt with in this report is political convergence between the parties in the emerging blue-brown bloc. Both rhetoric and proposals are consistently focused on pointing out and pushing down new arrivals and Swedes with immigrant backgrounds. It also wants to close down the Equality Agency, and the Delegation against segregation will be abolished. Both are authorities with the task of gathering facts, disseminating knowledge and following up concrete initiatives. It is understandable that this disturbs those who shape their political line more to delight reactionary net warriors than to make Sweden a better country for more. One of the parties in that bloc has this as its very right of existence and its air of life. We heard here today a representative of that party in some sort of ideological delirium, a kind of fusion of a high school essay in philosophy and a neo-Nazi pamphlet. But that the Moderates and Christian Democrats follow, it is a tragic fact that redraws the political map in Sweden. It is a development that needs to meet resistance. This resistance needs to be fundamentally based on other things than the government's current policy, which is characterised by subsidies to homeowners' verandas and resignations for the lack of resources in the welfare sector.
i-925becd649952333-1048	Mr President, I would like to During the pandemic, nothing is normal. I had prepared a speech on gender equality, but I have just been given responsibility for the issue of the establishment of new arrivals. I will present here some of the Christian Democrats' publishers in both these areas. However, with limited time, there is no possibility of developing all our proposals, but I should like to focus on some of our proposals in the budget option. Since, at the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 13. The Christian Democrats' budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package, and we therefore have only one specific opinion. I will present some of our alternative proposals. The economic crisis, as a result of the Coronapdemin, has reinforced several of the problems that already existed and which the government was too passive to face. The labour market divide is even greater, as is the number of unemployed. Those who were far removed from the labour market before the recession now have even worse chances of getting a job. The Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for comprehensive reforms in labour market policy and an improved integration policy so that newly arrived immigrants can find work and a sustainable housing situation more quickly. The government is passive, and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs does not come up with any proposals for the necessary reforms. When it comes to the integration of new arrivals, the Christian Democrats believe that the reception of asylum seekers from their arrival needs to have as a purpose the start of the integration process in Sweden. We therefore propose 150 million for an asylum programme to facilitate the establishment in Sweden. That money is in Category 1. The Christian Democrats' integration proposal aims to protect and strengthen the community with the social contract that must exist between the state and citizens on rights but also obligations. According to a recently published report from the Entrepreneurship Forum, today there is a low level of self-sufficiency of 600 000 foreign born of working age. The costs of lack of integration are, of course, enormous both for the national economy and for the individual who is not in work. Outsidership is increasing dramatically in Sweden and has serious consequences for society as a whole. That is why we have said that, if we are to have a responsible integration policy, we must also have a responsible asylum and migration policy. We need to lower the search pressure to an average Nordic level. Mr President, I would like to New arrivals are currently placed in a two-year establishment programme once they have received a temporary or permanent residence permit. However, after the programme's two years, just over one third of newcomers move on to work or training. It can therefore be concluded that a very large number of people have not made enough progress in their integration to get a job or do not have the language skills to attend regular education. And for far too many, this means that they will instead end up in supply support with the municipality. Instead, we want to see a flexible establishment programme for one to five years, like our Nordic neighbours' systems. For municipalities, this would also mean a relief as the responsibility of the state is extended, not least financially, for the non-matching group. This would not least affect newly arrived women, a group that is not always met with the same expectations and demands to work as men do. Several studies show with their clear statistics that newly arrived women are offered less extensive and less relevant labour market measures than newly arrived men, which is of course unacceptable. Isolation is not the answer to getting more foreign-born women to work. Activities to prepare women on parental leave for work through language studies and social orientation are a much better answer. However, the design of the activities must focus in particular on women and their preconditions as the group has been difficult to reach. Training should be compulsory and should also, in particular, enable training that can lead to jobs, for example through mentoring programmes and vocational training. The priority work towards segregation, we Christian Democrats believe, should be that people come to work, that pupils pass the school and that foreign-born learn the Swedish language and become employed. We do not believe that an authority can solve this, as the government believes. We therefore believe that Delmos can be closed down. Instead, the work line must be clear. It is about the requirements of language learning, strengthening the school and the police and addressing the problems of the EBO Act, which has increased segregation. These are measures that an authority will not solve; this must be resolved in society at large. Madam President, I would like The government is called a feminist government. Nevertheless, developments in the field of gender equality are going in the wrong direction in several different areas, particularly in the area of violence against women. Unfortunately, the number of sexual offences is increasing every year. For example, the number of rapes increased by 10 per cent from 2018 to 2019. In addition, almost every second young woman has stated that they have chosen another way home because of fear of crime. The violence of honour is another major challenge in our society where, unfortunately, we do not see it moving in the right direction either. Over 100 000 young people in Sweden do not feel that they can live in freedom and choose who to marry. We have got some new legislative proposals in place, in the right direction, but we are still waiting for a special legislation on the crime rubrication of honour violence in the criminal code – something that we have been demanding for years. We Christian Democrats believe that further concrete measures are needed to curb negative developments. We put in our budget option SEK 10 million aimed at the police and NOA to set up a special unit based on the British model, a so-called Forced Marriage Unit, in order to prevent girls and women from being taken out of the country for child marriage and forced marriage. I note in the Government's budget proposal that after criticism of the government from, among others, us Christian Democrats, it has now finally chosen to permanent National competence team against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County. We welcome that. Madam President, I would like The Equality Authority was set up at the expense of a number of well-functioning activities. Money was taken from important efforts that directly affected vulnerable women and gave the funds to a new authority. It really didn't feel good. The coordination previously carried out by the Stockholm County Administrative Board, for example, in the work against prostitution and human trafficking for sexual and other purposes, was discontinued. We believe that this should be revived, and we set aside funds for this. The National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala was also withdrawn. Instead, they are now allowed to apply for money every year to finance part of their hotline, the Women's Rights Line, for vulnerable women. It is an unreasonable management of such an important activity. We were supposed to stop doing projects! Now, instead, they have to apply each year for the 10 million that were previously in their basic funding. I do not think that is creating continuity. In order to coordinate efforts in the field of gender equality policy, we propose that instead of an authority, we set up a delegation for gender equality, and we also allocate funds for this in our budget. This is a proposal that Statskontoret considered reasonable compared to its own authority. Madam President, I would like With this, I refer to the specific opinion of the Christian Democrats in the report.
i-925becd649952333-1070	Madam President, I would like When I took office in 2014 as Minister of Social Security, one of my very first steps was to remove the custody allowance that not least the Christian Democrats were behind the fact that we had in place for a number of years. When the Christian Democrats talk about the importance of foreign-born women being given an opportunity to integrate into the labour market and to reduce time in exclusion to work and self-support, I cannot help but be amazed at the fact that the Christian Democrats are now again launching a custody allowance. Now they call it childcare money, but in fact this is exactly what it is all about. It is a double custody allowance that the Christian Democrats want to introduce into the labour market. Of course, I took note of the evaluation of the custody allowance before we Social Democrats abolished it last time. In fact, 91 percent of the cases were women who took out the custody allowance, and above all they were foreign-born women. This, of course, led to delays in setting up the labour market. How do the Christian Democrats think this is a good policy for gender equality and establishment in the Swedish labour market?
i-925becd649952333-1074	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The welfare allowance is not even included in the Christian Democrats' proposal. I believe that we are discussing the budget that we have presented here this year, and there is no custody allowance here. Nevertheless, I believe that Annika Strandhäll can see that the situation of foreign-born women has not improved very much even if the custody allowance was removed by the Social Democrats. What we advocate is that parents should have time with their children, but we believe that it should be mandatory to participate in different types of education when you come here as new arrivals. That is where we want to make demands. We have also made sure that there can be some kind of possibility of babysitting when going to SFI. It is very important that many women participate in the establishment and enter society, and I think we are in complete agreement there. Childcare allowance is more about increasing flexibility for parents. It is about more than the individual mother and father being able to be with the children; it can also be grandfather, grandfather, grandmother or grandmother who should be able to participate. But it may also be that you live in different types of family constellations that are not the usual traditional ones. It is also something you should be able to expand the opportunity for and allow more people to participate in and take part in parental leave. My comment is more: What problems do we see today? We see that many foreign-born women do not participate even if the custody allowance does not exist. Then the Social Democrats must have a solution to this and not stand and talk about the Christian Democrats' previous proposals, which are not in our budget today.
i-925becd649952333-1079	Madam President and Mrs Pethrus! A shovel is still a shovel even if you repackage it a little bit. And the fact is that the childcare allowance that you are now proposing is simply the old custody allowance, but in some new clothes. Both the Christian Democrats and we know what it led to last time in terms of the flexibility achieved and the effort that the gender equality allowance meant for women here in the country: 91% of those who obtained child care allowance were women, and the integration of foreign-born women into the labour market was delayed. Now, if you come into government, you want to introduce something similar again. Why not learn from past mistakes?
i-925becd649952333-1081	Madam President, I would like I object to it being called a custody allowance, because it is not. It is about increasing flexibility for parents so that they can get their life puzzle together, quite simply. It's been about when the kids are very young. We know that it is up to perhaps three years of age that a child has the greatest need for closeness to his parents. It has been a way for parents to extend their time at home with their children. Here, however, Strandhäll and the Social Democrats are guilty of the answer. What are you doing today about the fact that very many immigrant women still do not enter society – that so many are outside and that the Employment Service is not making sufficient efforts to get them into labour market policy measures? Here I think I have every right to criticise the government. More needs to be done here – I hope we agree.
i-925becd649952333-1084	Madam President, I would like Today, in this House, we are debating the area of equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. Of course, the coronapandemia we are now living in the midst of also challenges gender equality further, globally but also nationally. We have women working in the front line of the pandemic, not least in health care and care for the elderly. Previously, the proportion of foreign born in these particular occupations was mentioned here. 40 per cent of carers are born abroad, as are 26 per cent of nurses, 14 per cent of nurses and 34 per cent of doctors. These born abroad carry the Swedish welfare on their shoulders and are now in the front line of the pandemic, and most of them are, as I said, women. But we also see how women are now losing their jobs when several women-dominated industries are hit hard by the pandemic. We also see the increase in domestic violence as a result of many being forced to stay in the home with the perpetrator. I am thinking today to begin by focusing on the latter, because if we are to deal with both equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants in eight minutes, we have to give a strong priority. I therefore choose to focus on the pandemic that has been going on in Sweden for a very long time, called men's violence against women. In Sweden 150 000 children live with one parent who has been abused by the other parent. Every 20 minutes, around the clock, a woman in Sweden reports that she has been abused. Every ten children have witnessed how Dad beats Mom. Around 100,000 young people, preferably girls, are estimated to live under honorary oppression in Sweden. For the past three years, 48 women have been killed by a man they had a previous relationship with. There's a dead woman about every three weeks, all year round. As a spokesperson for gender equality policy, I often say that as a social democrat, one can be unspeakably proud of the policy that we have been running tirelessly in Sweden for many decades to make Sweden a country that is at the very forefront of gender equality. We have the introduction of special taxation, the world's most modern parental insurance, the extension of childcare facilities, the right to abortion, dual lists in politics, women's peace legislation, sex purchase legislation and, last term of office, also the consent legislation, to name but a few of the reforms we have been involved in. Very much has been about increased independence and security for women in a broad sense, not least with a focus on creating financial security and independence for women so that they can choose their own path in life, afford to divorce, dare to walk when the first battle comes and have the money to support their children when you become alone. It is simply a question of women in this country having the same opportunity as men to influence their own lives and society. Our task as Social Democrats has been to identify obstacles to this and to remove them through political initiatives and reforms. With a continued focus, I am sure that we can also get to grips with the violence. Combating men's violence against women is one of the most important priorities of the Social Democrats, but also of the government. This year 350 new investigators have been recruited, focusing particularly on violence in close relations, honour-related crimes and violence against children. Victim Support Finland and women's shelters now have more money to move with than ever before. We have also tightened the penalties in the whole scale. And with the consent legislation Sweden got the strictest sex crime legislation we have ever had. When it comes to honour crimes, we introduced a new penalty and exit ban at the mid-year end to protect children who are at risk of being married away or genitally stymied. And no one has missed that the work against trafficking in human beings and sex purchases has also been prioritised. A particular offence of honour is now emerging from the pattern of the femininity crime that we were involved in 20 years ago. A new child peace crime is also on the way to Parliament's table, and that is something I would like to mention in particular. This means that if a man beats his wife, children will also be regarded as victims of crime and, among other things, be able to receive compensation, because it is also an abuse of the child that is being committed. These are just a few things from a long list. We shall also address the issue of establishment during this debate. We must dare to see that we are living in a Sweden where income inequality has increased very much in the last three decades. We have seen a faster increase in income inequality than many other countries. There is a frustration in Sweden today, as in many other countries, that the economic gap has increased so rapidly and that so many more people actually feel that society is failing when life for some reason turns around. When you suffer from illness, unemployment or occupational injury or retire, you find that the security was not there as you expected. This insecurity also brings reduced hope and reduced faith in the future; we see this not least in young people. Of course, it also reduces people's confidence in politics's ability to solve social problems and opens up to the kind of populism and authoritarian politicians that we see both in our world and in Sweden. We have begun a change of direction in politics and since we came into government we have invested a great deal in the work towards the widening divides and towards the segregation that has stuck. But this will take time to turn around; this is not done in one night. It is about having a clear reform agenda and a long-term policy for reducing gaps, which we also have the energy to sustain over time and hopefully get voters' confidence to implement. Finally, I will briefly mention two points. We think it is very good that the increased levels of unemployment benefits and the relief of working conditions introduced during the pandemic are extended until 2022. In the situation Sweden is in need of a strong labour market policy and aggressive investment in retraining and conversion. I would also like to mention the Delegation against segregation, Delmos. State intervention has all too often taken the form of more or less short-term projects. I myself have a background in such projects in the suburb of Angered. The wheel has been invented over and over again and in many different places. That's why Delmos is important. It is about being able to continue a longer-term work towards segregation and to coordinate efforts. The same applies to the Equality Agency. It is another tool for achieving a truly equal society. It's about releasing projectification, creating sustainable gender equality work and recognising it as a policy area, a subject area, a research area and a knowledge area, which should also be in a structure – because that's how we work in other areas. Social Democratic reforms have been important in the construction of modern Sweden. They took our country step by step and often under great resistance from an undemocratic and poor country with huge social divides to one of the richest and most equal and equal countries in the world. Today's gaps and segregation will be reduced, and gender equality and equality will increase. I conclude with two quotes from Social Democratic Prime Ministers. First, Stefan Löfven :中 All children in Sweden should be able to dream the biggest dreams and reach there. ..................................................... Don't tell me about the Swedish class society. I've seen it, grown up in it, and I hate it. This is what Göran Persson said to Carl Bildt a number of years ago, and it is still quite true for many of us Social Democrats.
i-925becd649952333-1106	Madam President, I would like A starting point for the Social Democrats' so-called integration policy is that society should be characterised by a diversity of values. This can be seen from the preparatory work that sets out the direction of the policy. In the preparatory work it says: Integration policy should make it easier for the individual to integrate old and new life patterns and lifestyles in the way she wishes. A multicultural society consists of a diversity of values and approaches that gradually affect each other. One type of evaluation that is becoming more common in Sweden is what is commonly called honorary culture, which a little simplified means that a family or a clan in different ways tries to limit the younger family members' life choices. Since the Social Democrats' starting point in integration policy is that values that are new in Sweden should gradually affect those who are a little older – it says literally so in your preliminary work – and that there should also be no restrictive principle regarding which values are welcome in Sweden, I wonder: In what way does Annika Strandhäll think it is good that the new honorary standard should affect the gender equality standard that currently applies in Sweden?
i-925becd649952333-1110	Madam President, I would like Yeah, Ludvig Aspling, I'm losing some chin. The gender equality policy goals we have in Sweden that every woman in Sweden regardless of ethnicity should have the same right and opportunity as the men in Sweden to shape both her own life and society. This is the starting point for gender equality policy in Sweden. For us Social Democrats, it is quite obvious that all oppression and all crimes against women should be prosecuted with the laws we have and in the way that we behave in general when it comes to the prosecution of perpetrators. Honorary culture should be prevented, and girls and women should be supported so that they can live proud and free lives in our country.
i-925becd649952333-1112	Madam President, I would like It was good that I got a clarification. Honorary culture should be prevented, says Annika Strandhäll, and it is welcome. The question then is why the Social Democrats both design and vote for a bill that says that all values should be welcome in Sweden and that society should consist of a variety of values and approaches that gradually affect each other. I prefer what Annika Strandhäll says, but that is not what says in the political direction of the integration policy that the Social Democrats have both designed and voted for in this House. Let me simplify the question somewhat in the hope of getting a straight answer: should society consist of a variety of values without a restrictive principle?
i-925becd649952333-1115	Madam President, I would like As a social democrat, I stand up for integration, not assimilation, as the Swedish Democrats advocate. I also belong to a party with a very different value than the one on which you rest. Yes, I stand up for a multicultural Sweden and for people to be able to live with the values and culture they have with them from the country they come from and at the same time hopefully embrace Swedish values and thus integrate in a good way. Ludvig Aspling didn't hear my main speech? I just described how, at the end of the six-month period, we introduced a new penalty, a ban on the protection of children who are at risk of being married or of being genitally stifled, and that we are in the process of introducing a special honorary crime with a special scale of punishment, with patterns from the crime of women's peace that we Social Democrats introduced 20 years ago.
i-925becd649952333-1118	Madam President, I would like Annika Strandhäll sounds very pleased with the situation and with what the government does. But women have never ever felt as insecure in Sweden as they are now. In this situation, it would be desirable for Annika Strandhäll, on behalf of the Social Democrats, to adopt a somewhat more moderate and humble attitude. Violence against women is on the increase, and Strandhäll was mentioned as such. Sexual crimes are increasing dramatically. Why is this, and is the government doing the right thing? In my speech I mentioned the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala and that the government withdrew the basic funding. I find it strange that every year they should have to go to the National Board of Trade and apply for the 10 million to the Women's Council. Just because you wanted to start a gender equality agency, you had to take money from various activities. Should we not be able to afford more if we are really going to invest in real equality? So to that of a policy of its own. We want it to be mainstreamed. In the Beijing Platform, we concluded that all policy areas must take responsibility for the work on gender equality.
i-925becd649952333-1123	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Pethrus for important issues. Désirée Pethrus asks me whether I am satisfied with women's security and gender equality in Sweden. My answer is that I am not satisfied. We Social Democrats will not rest until we have also managed to tackle violence against women. I am talking about violence in a broad sense, i.e. sexual violence, physical violence and psychological violence. This is also one of the government's absolute top priorities in the area of criminal policy. I mentioned it in my speech, and I went through a list of measures taken by the government to increase the security of women in Sweden and to work vigorously against men's violence against women. The answer is, I'm not happy. However, I am happy to see that more women dare and want to report when they are exposed. I don't take that as a negative thing. On the contrary, there should be a broad definition – which we have in Sweden – of what is a sexual crime. Sweden has probably the widest definition in the world, which means that much is covered by Swedish legislation. Hence Sweden stands out to a certain extent. We want women to report, and they will receive the support they can demand when they have been subjected to violence in one way or another. In the next post, I will tell you more about the efforts that are being made, not least by expanding the Swedish police by over a third. 350 new investigators will focus on these very issues.
i-925becd649952333-1129	Madam President, I would like We also have several different initiatives to try to overcome the problems and challenges we see. It has been shown that more reports are not just about more reporters but that the vulnerability has increased for girls and women. We know that it goes further down in the ages where girls feel that they are vulnerable. It's extremely serious. I did not receive an answer to my question about the National Centre for Women's Peace. Does Annika Strandhäll think it was reasonable to take money from activities to fund the Equality Agency? Why had to be taken from various activities aimed directly and specifically at vulnerable women?
i-925becd649952333-1131	Madam President, I would like It is certain that there is also an increase. But we cannot ignore the fact that there is a broad definition – which we want. Consent law has also broadened the field of what is considered a sexual offence. That is because we want to be ambitious in this area. The issue of the Equality Agency has been debated in various ways many times. Well, we're going to have mainstream gender equality work in all government agencies and in the whole of politics. It's necessary. But we also need leadership in the form of the Equality Agency. It focuses on the issue, coordinates the work, produces knowledge base and ensures that there is current research in the field. I think that's good.
i-925becd649952333-1133	Madam President, I would like It has been a strange year, this pandemic 2020. It has been a revolutionary year in many ways, both individually and for us as a society. And the worst thing is that the crisis is in no way over. The spread of this new virus is now reaching new heights, and we have had the highest excess mortality in one November month since the Spanish flu in 1918. Swedish healthcare has also soon reached its maximum capacity, at least if at the same time you are able to take care of patients with diseases other than covid-19 and prepare for the enormous logistical surgery that mass vaccination entails. In addition to the usual tasks, several of us Members have been given a great responsibility to contribute to ensuring that the financial support packages that have been presented are as accurate as possible. In fact, despite our solid work, there have been occasions where I have felt that we have fallen behind. Surely the comfort is somewhere that we are all doing what we can here and now and that we are also making valuable experiences in the face of future crises. We have also saved hundreds of thousands of Swedish jobs, prevented many viable companies from going down and added billions to our municipalities and regions so that their important tasks will be maintained. Madam President, I would like Sweden and the world face enormous challenges in the pandemic, not only in the acute phase of combating the virus, but also the social problems, gaps and past shortcomings that have become even more visible here and now. Many poor people around the world have found it even harder to get food on the table. Global value chains have been damaged, and nationalism has gained even more air under its wings. There is a risk that decades of poverty reduction will be overturned and new waves of refugees and conflicts will flare up. There's a lot of warning signals. In addition to the pandemic, we are also struggling to find long-term sustainable solutions for the climate, despite the efforts of climate-deniers to push our necessary efforts and efforts in mind. In short, we can see that the 2020s are becoming really challenging. The economic recession that the world is going through will require strong political action, otherwise we risk deepening and strengthening the gaps that our society has not benefited from or has not benefited from. Political courage and action are needed to implement structural changes to pave the way for what is to come. Madam President, I would like We are currently implementing a historical transformation of the Swedish labour market. I am both pleased and proud that the Center Party has been a driving force within the framework of the January cooperation to get the biggest changes in labour law since the introduction of the LAS, perhaps even since the Saltsjöbad agreement of 1938. The fact that the parties Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK and now the largest LO associations Kommunal and IF Metall have concluded this historic agreement means that we can tear down some of the barriers that have prevented young and foreign born from entering and gaining hold on the Swedish labour market. It is only now that the really difficult work begins. In the coming months, we will have to work out extremely technical and complex legislation that takes care of the parties' agreement. We are making changes to the Employment Protection Act, and we are also expanding and developing the transition opportunities for the employee. It will be labour-intensive – I promise you that. However, I am proud to be on this historic journey in the negotiating rooms and here in Sweden's highest decision-making assembly. Madam President, I would like But that is not all that is being done. We are also carrying out perhaps the largest administrative reform in Swedish public history. The employment agency, with its hugely complex mission, is now undergoing a fundamental structural change. For me, who have had the privilege of following closely the employment services and labour market policies in my civilian work, it is gratifying that we are engaged in both structures and screws and nuts. Precisely screws and nuts are essential to this reform. The devil's in the details, we say. Here are many details to be vigilant and careful about. There's still a lot of work to be done before we can say we've done the job. But believe me when I say we're on our way. We are determined and work hard even in these digital times. Madam President, I would like In October 2020, we were finally able to commission the Public Employment Service to start work on the introduction of a so-called intensive year for new arrivals within the framework of the establishment mandate. Many have not paid attention to the intensive year for what it really is, that is to say, a reform of the commission of establishment carried out by the bourgeois government in 2010. It was a reform that had extremely good intentions but which did not have the power to see the whole. This is because labour market policy is a policy area with many pieces of the puzzle that have to fit together, and where policy does not usually deal with more than one piece of the puzzle at a time. But now this is going to change. We lift each stone and turn every aspect, every detail, in order to eliminate possible pitfalls. We do this because we want to do good for Sweden, for the taxpayer, but also for the individual who is at risk of being excluded. We are doing it for our common good, not because it is in an agreement. So the January agreement is not the goal, but the tool we use to achieve the goal. I don't want anyone to doubt that. Madam President, I would like Of course, the Centre Party supports the committee's report and therefore calls for the proposal to be approved in its entirety. There are, of course, parts that we would have liked to see differently, but that's how it is in a collaboration– you give and take. The time is not enough to solve everything that we want to solve, even though we center parties are good at using all hours of the day. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has led to and will lead to more people becoming unemployed and thus risks deepening the gaps that have existed since before. I refer in particular to the fact that many people with a foreign background who did not manage to get a job even during a boom will find it even more difficult to get in and get hold of a much tougher labour market. We therefore need to continue to intensify our efforts and to formulate wise proposals on how to achieve better integration and inclusion and how to take advantage of people's drive and skills instead of passing them to the gallery. One step in this direction is the Kliva investigation, which we have just received and will take care of in a wise way. Language is a key factor in the individual's ability to take hold on the labour market. Yes, SFI is today an obstacle instead of an opportunity. The throughput is terrible, the quality of all criticism and content questionable. That is why, together with my colleagues, I will be extremely proactive in fundamentally reforming the SFI and giving this form of education the quality boost that we all deserve. Madam President, I would like Gender equality, the next theme of today's debate, is a policy area that is very close to my heart. Gender equality is not for me a word of fashion but is about values. It is about seeing the human being, his skills and motivation, and about creating opportunities, giving life chances and breaking destructive structures. The fact that we still have inappropriate wage differentials in the Swedish labour market is a failure for all of us, to take an example. Madam President, I would like Right now, in the wake of the pandemic, hundreds of thousands of women are in the front line and are working intensively to keep us safe, save lives and take care of our children in preschools and schools and our elderly in care. Yes, the list can be made long. Let us not content ourselves with applause and fine words, but take valuable steps to make it visible in practice that we all contribute to making equality a self-evident part of working life. Such a development benefits all of us and makes the world much richer. Unfortunately, however, we see in the wake of the most profound crisis in modern times that developments are going in the wrong direction and that we are in danger of having an equality crisis. Madam President, I would like In order to equip society and the economy, it is necessary to invest in welfare and reforms that increase equality between women and men. Eight months into the pandemic, however, we can clearly see that the crisis is hitting men and women differently and that gender gaps remain in our country by international standards of equality. Even before the crisis, there was a sharp economic gap between men's and women's income, savings and pensions, which gives women a worse starting point for unemployment. It's not something we can accept, it's something we have to address. There is also a risk that the historic crisis packages that we have launched in recent months will reinforce negative developments in the area of gender equality because they are based on existing structures. It is therefore crucial that we now follow up our efforts with clear gender equality goggles and that we have this important perspective with us in the further work. This applies, of course, both in the acute phase and when we come to incentives that need to be put in place when we are going to kick-start the economy again. Madam President, I would like Gender equality is not just fine words in various policy documents. It must be reflected in actual outcomes. It must be able to be measured more effectively, perhaps even with gender-disaggregated statistics. If we are serious about achieving the objective we have adopted on economic equality, we must ensure that the common resources are allocated in a way that stimulates such development. I realise that I have written a speech far too long, but I would like to conclude with a call. It's a call to all the men out there. It is time that we men, too, took note of the debate on gender equality and showed that we are prepared to take responsibility for ensuring that women and men have the same rights and are paid for their efforts with the same conditions. We need to help change society's views on the labour market, family life and responsibility. Gender equality is not a women's issue. These are matters of concern to all of us.
i-925becd649952333-1165	Madam President, I would like When you read the Center Party's motion in this area you notice a fairly clear focus on economic issues, i.e. the idea that if foreign born succeeds better in the labour market, the problem is solved. We don't think it's that simple. We think it is quite clear that the integration challenge, as it is commonly referred to, also has a cultural dimension and that the diversity of values that the Center Party is behind sometimes brings with it some problems. One such problem is forced marriage with children, which has become more common since many people from countries where this is a cultural norm move to Sweden. One of the Center's top politicians said a couple of years ago about child marriage that if they come here as asylum seekers, their culture should apply. The Youth League of the Centers wants the crime of sexual exploitation of children to be partially abolished, and there seems to be a broader culture within the party that is very liberal on this issue. The Center Party is also the only party in this House that does not have a committee motion that mentions child marriage or forced marriage with children. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask Alireza Akhondi whether he is satisfied with the work of the government in this area or whether the Center Party has its own policy to deal with this particular problem.
i-925becd649952333-1170	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Ludvig Aspling! However, I am not sure whether I understood it. Was there a focus on child marriage? I sat in the reference group in the recent study that presented its conclusions dealing with issues of child marriage. I want to make it very clear that for the Center Party this issue has never been particularly dramatic in the sense that we are simply not in favour of child marriage, point. And what Ludvig Aspling refers to and tries to assert is nothing that I recognize despite my 18 years in the Center Party. Then I wonder a little about Ludvig Aspling's obsession with cultures. I honestly do not understand where the problem lies in the fact that we acknowledge diversity and differences or why people who are part of the majority society, comply with laws and rules and work and contribute to our common development should have to give up part of their own identity. It just feels strange and for my thoughts unfettered to values and norms that were in force in the 1930s.
i-925becd649952333-1174	Madam President, I would like I think it was good that Alireza Akhondi was able to make such a clear position on this issue. This makes me feel a little more secure after hearing the answer. The reason I am raising this is that I believe that the diversity of values that we currently have in Sweden is one of the country's biggest problems. Diversity in itself is not a problem for me. I myself am married to an immigrant, and we have a very multicultural home. However, a diversity of values without a restrictive principle, as I highlighted earlier in this debate, is a huge problem. In the face of values that do not belong in a civilised society, such as child marriage, we must stand united and be clear in every way possible.
i-925becd649952333-1176	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling comes back to the concept. I'd like to know what that really means. We are here in Sweden's highest decision-making assembly, in this House. We're legislators. We make laws that people should relate to. What are the other types of restrictive principles that the Swedish Democrats and Ludvig Aspling are looking for? For once, can't you speak clearly so that we all understand what it is that you want to counteract and what values you want to be able to govern?
i-925becd649952333-1177	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about how to promote integration and gender equality and combat segregation and discrimination. So let's focus for a moment on segregation. When we talk about segregation, we usually talk about vulnerable areas. I think we should talk about vulnerable people – adults who do not have the freedom and pride that most others experience when they leave work for the day and know that the salary comes into the account on the 25th so that you can support your family, young girls and boys who are limited in how they live and who they can love because of traditions that are incompatible with our basic democratic values such as gender equality and children's rights, children who can never read their homework in peace because they live with another one or two families in the already crowded apartment. These people need to be on the retina when we set goals for an equal society, for integration and for reduced segregation. The removal of obstacles, the release of driving forces and the creation of opportunities for those who live in the least freedom is what makes me and many other liberal politicians out in our elongated country continue to engage us year after year. If we remove obstacles and create opportunities, we will also free up the driving forces of the vast majority – such as Kahwar, who grew up in Afghanistan where as a girl she did not get access to education but who learned anyway, on her own, and who now, after two in Sweden, works as a personal assistant during the days and educates herself as a nurse in the evenings thanks to her participation in the Establishment Lift, which provides an intensive course in Swedish at the same time as what you need to be able to do a job. The solution is not revolutionary or unique. It's about a job to go to, a school that meets up and compensates for what the home can't provide in terms of future faith and knowledge. And for those who have not been born with Swedish as their mother tongue, one of the keys is the language. Segregation occurs when many who live in freedom live in the same area. Liberals were out early and paying attention to this through what we called the map of exclusion, where we warned of worrying developments in certain residential areas where the rate of employment was low and school results were low. Unfortunately, these areas have increased in number. The vast majority of those who grow up in a vulnerable area today are doing well. The vast majority of people living in a vulnerable area have a job and are doing the right thing. But there is a group that grows up without faith in the future, and for these there is a risk of going wrong. That is why the budget for social action in these particular areas is incredibly important. It is not a question of project grants, but of strengthening important activities that the municipalities are already carrying out in the framework of crime prevention. This could be about strengthening cooperation between school and social services through social intervention groups that help young people who have fallen wrong to choose better ways for the future. Social intervention groups and more extensive preventive work are also some of the things that Liberals lift up in what we call the suburban lift, with important and thorough suggestions for more people to feel proud and safe in their residential areas. Our goal is for Sweden to become the country of opportunity regardless of the background and no matter where you grow up. Madam President, I would like The second part of the budget area is about equality. Liberals believe that gender equality issues need to be given greater scope in the debate. We think it is a good thing that there is now an authority that has the responsibility to raise those areas where women and men are not judged by the same yardstick or where the expectations of the two sexes are different, which means that people's chances of life are limited. It is still the case that a woman's average living income is more than SEK 3 million lower than that of a man. Only over a quarter of parental leave is still taken by men. It is still the norm that it is the woman who goes down to part-time if it is needed to cope with everyday life with young children. Boys' school scores are still lagging behind those of girls, with the consequences for their future life prospects. And for those girls, women, boys and men who live in freedom every day because of the environment's honorary thinking, gender equality is still just an empty word. Sweden is perhaps the world's most equal country but has a good way to go to actually be completely equal. One of the Liberals' most important gains in this budget is that we now state that the work against honour-related violence and repression should be carried out in the long term. The competence team against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County is permanent and becomes a national competence centre. The county administrative boards' mission to combat men's violence against women, violence in close relationships, honor-related violence and repression, as well as prostitution and human trafficking will also be permanent. However, this is financed in another budget area. Unfortunately, the work against violence in close relationships is even more up-to-date in the ongoing pandemic. That is why the Liberals pushed through additional support for civil society, including the women's shelters, in one of the additional amending budgets decided on during the year. Unfortunately, the need remains – not least now that the main weekends are approaching, which is an appointed time for many children and women even when we do not have a pandemic. Finally, Madam President, I note that there are parties in this House who do not believe that we need a discrimination ombudsman in Sweden. A recent report shows that 37 per cent of the complaints received by the Discrimination Ombudsman in 2015– 2019 were about discrimination against persons with disabilities. Living without discrimination on the grounds of disability, gender, religion, sexual orientation, ethnic background or age is a right for which we Liberals have fought. To close down the Ombudsman for Discrimination would be to turn the time back to a worse society for those who are at risk of discrimination, something that we could never contribute to. In so doing, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-925becd649952333-1191	Madam President, I would like A substantial part of the appropriation in this area of expenditure is, of course, intended to support associations based on ethnic origins, a type of non-profit organisation aimed at helping people from other countries to preserve that country's culture. In our budget, we are phasing out this appropriation, partly because we do not see it as the task of Sweden's taxpayers to finance, for example, Iraqi culture, but also because we do not think it is necessary. To take Iraq as an example, it is a country that has a five thousand - year history from Sumer and Babylon to today's national state. They will survive a little while longer without money from Sweden, I am sure of that. Another reason for reviewing this grant is what research says about this type of association. Paul Collier, professor of public policy at the University of Oxford, claims that this type of association tends to make it difficult for immigrants to integrate into new countries. The reason is that such associations often try to separate members from the majority culture and instead make them turn to their traditional leaders and preserve not only culture but also certain patterns of life from their home country that do not always fit into the new society. More researchers have looked at this and come to about the same conclusion. I would therefore like to ask Malin Danielsson, on the one hand, whether she is aware of the research that exists on this type of organisation and, on the other hand, whether she can point to any research that shows that this type of association is doing any real benefit in terms of integration.
i-925becd649952333-1194	Madam President and Mr Ludvig Aspling! Yeah, I know there's research showing this. It is very distressing if you do not use the state subsidies that you receive as an association in a way that is consistent with, for example, the fundamental democratic values that we have in our country. But I believe as a liberal that you can actually have several different cultures. You can have a Swedish culture at the same time as you have an Iranian culture, for example. They need not be incompatible with each other. That is why I see that there may be a point in continuing to preserve one's cultural heritage. Just like Swedish people living abroad often want to preserve and maintain more of the traditions they have, of course, if you move from another country here to Sweden. I do not see that there is a contradiction, but I see a major problem in whether the money is used in a way that it should not be used in. That is something that we Liberals push for in budgetary negotiations and in different ways when we follow up the work of the authorities.
i-925becd649952333-1197	Madam President, I would like Malin Danielsson says that Swedes who move abroad may want to preserve their culture or parts of it. Sure, absolutely! I myself have lived abroad for a little over seven years. I have never thought of going to a Japanese authority and asking it to finance my Swedish cultural association. It would be laughable – they would think I was not wise to try to do such a thing. I'm glad Malin Danielsson has taken part in the research. I have talked about this before in this House, and I have then been quite alone in doing so. The contradiction that Malin Danielsson does not see I can explain in a very simple way. We are spending money on integration policies, that is, on integrating immigrants. Then we spend money on those organisations that have the side effect of counteracting the integration of immigrants, as research shows. Does Malin Danielsson think that it is a responsible way to manage public money to invest money that will contribute to a particular purpose and then invest other money that will counteract the same purpose?
i-925becd649952333-1201	Madam President and Mr Ludvig Aspling! I think that reality is being simplified a little too much here. I do not believe that these conclusions can be drawn entirely. There are a lot of associations that do an incredible amount of integration work and that have a cultural background. No, you would not go to another country's authorities and seek funds for this type of organization, and that is because Sweden is unique. We have state and municipal funding for a very extensive association life. It can be based on sharing values and engaging as a Scout, it can be based on ethnic background and it can be based on your commitment to gender equality issues. I think that is unique and fantastic with Sweden. Then we will make sure that there are no rejections, but I think that it can benefit integration just as much as meeting within the Scouts that one meets within an ethnic association.
i-925becd649952333-1204	Madam President, I would like Discrimination issues affect many people in our society, including ethnic minorities, people with disabilities, LGBTQ people and the elderly. The area of expenditure that we are debating concerns a number of subjects. I choose here to focus on discrimination and integration. Madam President, I would like We live in a time where tolerance between people decreases, not only in Sweden but in a large part of the world. The situation in the world is troubled, and people's understanding of each other is decreasing. The values on which Sweden and other democracies rest are threatened. As far as racism and discrimination are concerned, much in the world points to negative developments. It is easy to understand that the Black Live math movement has grown so much this year. Many say that Sweden has not had the same problem or that racism is something that does not affect Sweden in the same way as other countries. But it is important to remember that we also have a history of racism and discrimination. Sweden has a dark history of slave trade. Sweden has been the world leader in so-called eugenics research. Sweden has had a Jewish regulation that did not differ so much from the segregation laws in the United States. Sweden has conducted lobotomizations and forced sterilisations and has conducted experiments on forced children with mental and intellectual disabilities. The examples are many. Of course, much has improved. But discrimination and racism are very much still in existence and take different forms. Those with foreign-sounding names are less called for a job interview, and racist hate crimes continue to dominate hate crime statistics. Afrosvenskar needs a doctoral programme to reach the same disposable income as a person in the rest of the population with a three-year post-secondary education. Discrimination and racism have been a problem, are a problem and will continue to be a problem if we do not actively oppose it. But a party in the Swedish Parliament, the Swedish Democrats, claims that discrimination does not exist and wants to close down the Equality Ombudsman. Anyone who does not see racism and discrimination is either an ostrich or a Swedish democrat. In Sweden, the government has developed a national plan against racism and commissioned the Forum for Living History to coordinate the work. The plan sets out a coordination and follow-up structure that provides the basis for long-term strategic work against racism. Furthermore, we have, among other things, established a national research programme against racism, invested in tackling hate crime online and strengthened the important work of civil society. The work of the government is important, but we need more parties in the Swedish parliament that clearly mark against racism, discrimination, hatred and threats in the time we are in. I am genuinely concerned that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats can imagine co-regulating with a party that shows such a lack of interest and total disregard for people's experiences of discrimination and racism and that through its policies and rhetoric is increasing the problems of discrimination and racism. Madam President, I would like Now I'm going to switch to the integration area. There is a widespread picture of Sweden's total failure to integrate. That picture doesn't add up. Sweden is doing well compared to other OECD countries. This shows the OECD's own measurement of the different integration capacities of countries. In that measurement Sweden is number one on the list. But we cannot be content with that. I think we all share the view that there are integration problems in our society. Therefore, the government is investing in a range of measures to improve integration and for asylum seekers to be involved in society from day one. The party that is most critical of Sweden's integration policy believes that this government and previous governments have been doing the same policy and that it has not worked. Despite their alarming and misleading picture of Sweden's integration policy, they are in fact proposing almost nothing. It seems to be the status quo that applies. It is difficult to understand the lack of proposals from those who believe that Sweden is breaking down. In the integration debate, SD has strongly contributed to shifting focus to other societal problems, such as crime. They link different phenomena and make it sound like immigration is synonymous with crime. They point to crime and segregation as one and the same thing. I think that many who, like me, have a different background than ethnic Swedish are upset by this description of social problems. The climate of debate has hardened. It does not solve problems but instead contributes to polarisation. I really do not want to reduce the problems we have in Sweden when it comes to gang crime, for example. However, we need to have a nuanced debate on the issues and not simplify in the way that SD repeatedly chooses to do. According to police data, there are 5 000 active gang criminals in Sweden today. More than 2 million people with immigrant backgrounds live in Sweden. The suspicion of 2 million people is unacceptable. It also polarises and complicates the work with both segregation and integration. But what surprises me most is not SD's rhetoric on the issues, but their total lack of integration and segregation policies. They reject all the resources that the government aims to counter segregation, while at the same time they also want to close the Delegation against segregation. The government's efforts in this area are important for our society to stay together and function. But we need to do more in the future, and I wish we would be as many as possible to do so together. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report on Category 13.
i-925becd649952333-1224	Madam President, I would like We live in a time when some cold winds are blowing in the world. It is winds that seek to turn us people against each other, winds that are dangerous to our open, democratic societies, to the vital fight against climate change, to the free press, to human rights and to the principle of equal value for all and dangerous to equality and women's rights. Here in Sweden, the Swedish Security Service warns against right-wing extremism and Islamist extremism. It is forces that spread hatred against women, LGBT people, Africans, Jews, Muslims, Roma, Sami and other minorities. And I think there are many of us in this country who know that the price of silence in Sweden has become too high, who sees how limits are exceeded for what is acceptable in a prosperous democracy and a decent society and who will not stand silent next to and see these boundaries crossed. We will not allow discrimination, racism and misogynism. We will act, and the greatest responsibility for acting rests on us politicians to say stop and do something about the problems. In the state budget for next year, we will continue our efforts to combat racism and hate crime. It is about resources for more knowledge and research, education and support for civil society. We have also doubled the resources of this year's budget to work on LGBT people's rights, and this effort continues. Madam President, I would like Every three weeks, a woman is murdered by her husband, ex-husband, or boyfriend. Every three weeks, a woman is murdered by a person she once thought would love her. But it was not love; it was threats, control and hatred. Every day girls and women are subjected to men's violence against women, boys' violence against girls, honor-related violence and oppression, prostitution and human trafficking. It's about serious crime. One of our biggest gender equality problems and social problems in Sweden is that girls and women cannot be safe. Girls and women throughout our country are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression, which can also affect boys and non-binärs, ranging from restrictions on dress and career choices to exposure to genital mutilation, forced marriage and highly honour killings. There are girls in Sweden who are sleepless at night out of anxiety about being married away and subjected to rape. We also have an estimated 200 000 children living in homes where there is violence. It's about violence between adults, usually father's violence against mother, or against children or both. To experience Dad's violence against her mother is as harmful to a child as to being subjected to violence. Instead, in the place where the child more than anywhere else would feel safe, in the home, the fear, pain, anxiety and anxiety live. I don't want a child to have a baby like that. No child and no woman should have to be afraid in her own home or in the public room, in the workplace, in school – no one. In the budget presented by the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals, we are investing SEK 30 million in the permanent competence team at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland and developing it into a national competence centre against honour-related violence and oppression. This is an extremely important step forward. We also invest an additional SEK 180 million in the work against honour violence, so that we can improve in society in providing support for vulnerable people and in combating violence. Sweden's vital women's and girls' shelters continue to receive SEK 100 million in state grants. We permanently carry out the county boards' mission to combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression. Here is SEK 100 million in the budget. It is not a day too early for these missions to become permanent. There is a need for a long-term perspective in this work. In addition, we invest SEK 30 million in recidivism prevention measures in municipalities aimed at perpetrators of violence. We must ensure that those who practice violence stop doing so. Men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression must be stopped. The fight against violence is not over until all women, girls and children in our society can live in security. Madam President, I would like Now in the days came the result of Migrant Integration Policy Index, which was mentioned here earlier by Leila Ali-Elmi. It is an index that measures how successful countries are on integration. It compares a number of countries, all EU countries, Canada, Switzerland and others. In the previous measurement, in 2015, 38 countries were included in the measurement, and of the 38 countries, Sweden came out on site number one. In the new survey, which was presented just a few days ago and where 52 countries were included, Sweden came out among top three. Very good integration work is being done in municipalities, regions, authorities, civil society and the business community that is not recognised as it deserves. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say a big thank you to all of you around the country who are struggling to give new Swedes, adults and children, a good start here in Sweden. Thank you very much and very much! Then, from politics, we have to do our job. We have a responsibility to ensure that integration is improved. It doesn't matter what Sweden gets for investments, if it's top placements, because there's probably no politician in this country who thinks it's good as it is. That would be absurd. No, we need to get better at integration, at giving people good opportunities for a good establishment in Sweden. It's good for the individual, and it's good for society. And one important thing that we need to do is to be better at giving foreign-born women opportunities to establish themselves and to take advantage of their skills. We are not doing well enough there. Since before, we have improved and increased social orientation to 100 hours and strengthened efforts for parental leave, which benefits not least foreign-born women. And in the state budget for next year, we are investing SEK 60 million in improving public information for asylum seekers. Integration needs to start from day one in Sweden. We also spend SEK 200 million on the special state grant to the municipalities that have taken a major responsibility for the reception of refugees, and in April next year an intensive year will be introduced within the establishment. More needs to be done to improve integration. Madam President, I would like We must also combat segregation. We have a school segregation that affects children's opportunities for good schooling, one of the most important things in a child's life. We have families with children who live in homelessness in Sweden, often single women with children. We have great differences between people in terms of economic standards, security, health and longevity, which vary greatly between different residential areas. And those living in poverty in Sweden are at increased risk of dying prematurely. A vitally important factor driving segregation is economic divides. If you want to reduce segregation, a great deal in the long term would be better if the gaps were reduced. In Sweden, however, the development has been exactly the opposite. Here, instead, the gaps have increased. They have become even clearer during the Corona crisis. More people die from covid-19 in areas with socio-economic challenges. There are people here who can't take the car or work at home. It is the double injustice, Madam President, that crises almost always hit harder on those who are already struggling. More needs to be done to combat segregation and provide all children with good growing-up conditions. The budget includes an investment of SEK 250 million in state grants for social interventions in vulnerable areas. In addition, SEK 250 million is also spent on state grants to municipalities, regions and civil society to counteract and reduce segregation. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we live in times when we hear strong voices saying: We humans do best to think about ourselves. We need to run our own house. In fact, humanity has limits. It may be more important than for a long time to remember, to remember, our history. What has built our country strong and what has taken Sweden from being a country in deepest poverty to becoming one of the richest and most successful countries in the world were the voices that once said: Let us take care of each other in this country! Let us build a common welfare as an ultimate safety net and a country based on community and solidarity! This solidarity has built Sweden extremely strong. We must not forget that. Strong and equal societies we build together.
i-925becd649952333-1247	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for participating in the debate today! It is important that the ministers are involved in our debates to listen to how the debate goes and also to talk about what the government is doing. I would like to come back to the issue of violence against women, which I think involves both of us. Unfortunately, figures speak clearly. It's not going very well. It is not going in the right direction, despite the measures that the Government is taking here. What else can be done? Why does this not have an impact? Is it about attitudes and values or is it the punishment? What does the Government think? We believe, for example, that far too few are convicted of crimes like these. When it comes to rape in particular, many women are not able to report it because they know that they may still not get redress in a court of law. Very few reports go to prosecution.
i-925becd649952333-1251	I did not receive an answer from the Social Democrats' spokesperson on the issue of NCK in Uppsala. I asked why it has not returned to a basic allocation to them under the previous budget. The government might be able to answer that. I also have a question about women's and girls' shelters. When we have given them more resources, the municipalities in turn have withdrawn resources. What can be done to prevent municipalities from withdrawing money when the state increases their contributions to women's and girls' shelters? After all, we supported the proposal to give more funds to them. Could the Government perhaps answer this question?
i-925becd649952333-1253	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the kind opening words and for the very important questions raised by Mrs Pethrus! Let me start with what needs to be done. We could stand for hours and talk about this. This isn't a quick fix. Unfortunately, we will not solve men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression quickly. I think we need to do a lot of different things. We need to work preventively and with standards and values. We have a big problem with some guys and men. Most guys and men do not practice violence, but of those who practice violence, the absolute majority is about men and men. We need to deal with the macho culture, and it has to start early in school. We also need to be better at providing protection and support. It concerns both emergency protection and support and long-term support. For example, how do you get into the housing market after living in sheltered housing? How do you restart your life? I mentioned previously homelessness. Some of the women and children who are homeless are because they have fled from a violent person. There we need to do better on the part of society. The justice system was lifted up. I fully agree with the importance of being able to get good support when you turn to the judicial system after being subjected to crime. We are currently making historical investments in the police, and the police have now recruited 150 new employees to work with crimes in close relationships. This is a very important step forward. It is important that we take these crimes very seriously. After all, it is serious and serious crime, which ultimately means that people – women – lose their lives. As I mentioned, you also need to work with the perpetrators. My line time is running out. As I said, we could talk about this for a very long time. However, I would like to say a few words briefly about the NCK. When the agency was formed during the previous term of office, both assignments and resources were transferred to the Gender Equality Agency. The work at the County Administrative Board in Stockholm against prostitution and human trafficking, for example, was not discontinued, but the responsibility for the regional coordinators was transferred to the Equality Agency. This is the background to the matter. I share the honourable Member's view that NCK is doing an extremely important job.
i-925becd649952333-1260	Madam President, I would like I often get the answer that NCK is great and important, but I do not understand why they cannot get back the basic grant they had before. Why did it need to get worse for them when the Equality Agency would have money? Finally, I'd like to go into honorary violence. It is an issue that engages, I believe, both the Government and me. I've been going on about a proposal called forced marriage unit for a long time. Is there not a point in the fact that the police, in cooperation with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, could do more active work to prevent young girls from being taken abroad for forced and child marriages? If so, special legislation would be needed to ensure that parents return their children to Sweden. How does the Government view this?
i-925becd649952333-1262	Madam President, I would like I take a very positive view of the fact that we highlight various ideas and see what we can do further. Now we have tightened up the legislation and make it difficult for parents to bring their children out. This is a first very important step taken this summer. The best thing is if the children are not taken abroad at all. It's much harder to work them home again. It's possible, though. We have expanded this work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is very important that we do not leave these women and children in the lurch. We should definitely be open to learning from other countries and see what we in Sweden can do to further strengthen the work. How can the police, for example, be involved? We see, for example, what Britain is doing. They have a task force unit. They may have built up some collaborations throughout history in the old British Empire. There have been close contacts between countries, which has facilitated this work. What can we learn from this? Is there anything that Sweden can do? Can we build similar partnerships even if we do not have them today? We are always open to new ideas and ideas.
i-925becd649952333-1266	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin, as is customary, by calling for approval of the reservation contained in the report. The year is coming to an end, and we can soon put 2020 behind us. It has been a year defined by a pandemic that has put its claws in our world and in our everyday lives as we know it. There is hardly anyone who has not been affected by the pandemic, I would think, but as always there are some groups that are affected more. The elderly are such a group, and there are also other risk groups. A group that is not usually classified as a classical risk group are women and men who are abused by their partner. Increased home stay for these people is associated with direct life risk. We have heard the alarms from several different quarters this year: domestic violence is increasing during the pandemic, as it has done in previous world crises. It is therefore very good that the government is spending a lot of extra resources in this area this year. We too, of course, recognise the value of additional money and are therefore investing SEK 75 million in our draft budget, which is in addition to the efforts already made by the government. This is an initiative of which I am very proud, I would say. I'm glad we're doing it, especially this very special year. Although money alone will never be able to stop violence, it is extremely important that money never becomes a threshold that prevents us from working against it. It is also very welcome that the national competence team against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County will now be permanent. This is something that we have been proposing for some time. Madam President, I would like This is my last debate on gender equality in Parliament, which is why I would like to take this opportunity to send my wish list to the government, which is exemplaryly in place here today. It's a list of things I'd like to see the government working on. For I am not only here as a politician, but also as a woman who has grown up in a generation where, on the one hand, women have more opportunities than perhaps ever before, but on the other hand suffer other, new types of threats. I am talking about the threats of those who believe that women exist only to satisfy the desires of others. I am talking about the threats of those who believe and think that consent can be bought for money. I am talking about the threats of those who believe that women should be hidden and controlled so as not to bring shame to their families. I am talking about the threats of the companies profiting from sexual abuse in order to make money. I am talking about the threats of those who think that women who speak out about sexual harassment should stop overreacting. I'm talking about the threats from those who contribute to young girls thinking that pain associated with intercourse is normal. I am talking about the threats of all those who insist on remaining at a time when sexism was more the rule than the exception. And above all, I am talking about the threats of those who believe that we are ready now – that we are already equal and therefore need not do more. I would also like the government to develop the work against violence in young people's relationships. The 1000 Opportunities Foundation's report on this is terrible but necessary to read. If the government hasn't already taken note of it, I really want to tell you that you should. Finally, I would like all parties to actually try to put aside the prestige for a while and realise and acknowledge that our equality is worth fighting for – that it is more important than political games. We may not agree, and we may even dislike each other directly. But while we're arguing about who's the worst and who's the most this or so, the threats to gender equality are increasing, and I think we need to stand united if we're to face them. That, Madam President, is what I wish for. Last but not least, of course, I would also like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year – with all that it means in the very strange time we live in.
i-925becd649952333-1276	Madam President, I would like I thought I would make my speech rather brief. This year has been a very strange year, which many have touched on. But the democratic work is in progress, and luckily it is in this part. What we have to debate now is the subsidiarity review of the Commission's proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages in the European Union which the Committee on Employment has dealt with. I shall begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to give a reasoned opinion to the European Parliament, the Council and the President of the Commission. The whole committee believes that the Commission's proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. There is very strong support around the country for this. The social partners, political parties and many others support the proposal that wage formation should take place and be regulated at national level. In Sweden we have a long history of this: Since the Saltsjöbad agreement, signed in 1938, the social partners have been responsible for wage formation. It has served us very well – we are one of the countries in the world that has the lowest number of conflicts in the labour market. It is, of course, well-lucky that the European Parliament is working to get the nations to deal with this issue of minimum wages, but of course it needs to be decided at national level. For our part, it is particularly important that we protect our partner model, which has served us so well in these years. With those words, Madam President, I support the proposal of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
i-925becd649952333-1280	Madam President, I would like It is one thing to say that you are opposed to the European proposal on minimum wages, but quite another to be so, Madam President. Debate articles, public statements and shinfighting are one thing, but when it comes to vigorously and effectively driving Sweden's interest in putting an end to EU proposals, the Swedish Government and Stefan Löfven have fallen short. The parties to the Swedish labour market are deeply concerned about the proposal and have expressed it repeatedly. Both LO and PTK and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have jointly urged the Government and the Riksdag to mobilise all the resources available to prevent the adoption of the directive. The parties have also stated that the actions of the government in Brussels have been too slow, Madam President. The issue today is not about yes or no to minimum wages, but about whether the Swedish Parliament believes that the European Union has the right at all to legislate on wage issues and wage policy, that is, whether the EU Treaties provide a legal basis for this at all. It is a question of whether or not this proposal violates the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. that EU decisions should be taken at the lowest possible level. I am pleased that we could now, after all, have a united labour market committee along a line that clearly distances itself from the defensive and passive line that the government pursues when it really comes to the end, Madam President. While the government's written opinion only dares to state that it is only doubtful that the proposal on minimum wages is compatible with the principle of subsidiarity, Madam President, the committee notes, on the contrary, that there is no doubt that this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and that Sweden should give a so-called yellow card, i.e. dismiss the proposal. Madam President, it may be added that at the same committee meeting, that is to say last Tuesday, shortly after we adjusted this particular matter, the Minister for Labour appeared. She was very unclear, to put it mildly. One could also say that she was unwilling, if one is to be a bit cress, to clarify whether the government thought that Sweden would really show yellow cards. This, of course, raised a number of questions. The minister then made it clear that she and the government were hesitant about showing yellow cards right now. I am not saying, Madam President, that the government is secretly in favour of the proposals on minimum wages. What I do note, however, is that the government is so clearly ensnared and hampered by both its approach and its defensive action. This has been pushed forward by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. But above all, it is about the indisputable fact that the government in general, and Stefan Löfven in particular, have pushed this forward in the first place. The whole reason and prerequisite for the EU proposal on minimum wages is the so-called social pillar that was adopted at a summit in Gothenburg in 2017 on the initiative of Stefan Löfven, among others. The fears and criticisms then voiced by the Moderates that this would lead the EU to start deciding over the Member States in terms of social and labour markets – in particular the introduction of minimum wages – dismissed Stefan Löfven outright. He said that the debate on the transfer of power to the EU and Brussels was a fog curtain. Those who claim this do so because they do not want the right conditions and social security. An incorrect task does not become more true just because it is repeated as many times as possible. The declared Prime Minister of Gothenburg-Posten on 17 November 2017. Madam President, I would like This is an extremely remarkable statement, particularly in view of the fact that paragraph 6 of the Social Pillar Declaration contains an explicit reference to the issue of minimum wages. The draft directive on minimum wages – what we are now discussing – refers to that declaration in not one, not two, not three, but in no less than eight places. The link between these two documents is clear to everyone except the Swedish Social Democratic Government and the Prime Minister. Madam President, I would like Sweden must now completely close the door to any attempt by the Commission to regulate wage issues at EU level. Wage formation is entirely a national matter and should remain so. The proposal on minimum wages, together with a number of other proposals and initiatives from the European Commission, ranging from wage transparency to a common European unemployment insurance scheme, risks completely pre-empting the Swedish party-led labour market model. This applies to the proposals themselves, but above all also to all the precedents in the form of judgments by the European Court of Justice which will come up with all this. In recent years, we have seen the Commission come up with a wide range of initiatives that interfere with the responsibilities of Sweden and other Member States in the social and labour market policy field. Some examples are the Directive on the balance between work and private life, the Directive on clear and predictable working conditions and the Regulation on a common employment authority. Nor on those occasions did the government manage to protect Sweden's interests. Madam President, I would like The government must now act actively at all levels, in all fora and in all contexts, in order to stop an initiative on minimum wages in the EU becoming a reality. As far as the negotiations in the Council are concerned, the government must also actively work towards reaching a blocking minority against the draft directive. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that it is one thing to say that you are opposed to the European proposal on minimum wages. But it's a completely different thing to be that too.
i-925becd649952333-1295	Madam President, I would like What can I say? The substantive content of the draft directive on minimum wages makes me genuinely concerned. This is dangerous for Sweden. This is mainly due to the uncertainty caused by this type of proposal. I'm old enough to remember the Laval judgment and how surprising it was. Few people in Sweden saw it coming and were able to anticipate the ruling in the EU Court of Justice. It is not possible that we will see a similar case a little later in a few years' time if this act is adopted. What we are debating here today is really just the subsidiarity test of the proposal and not the substantive content of the proposal. I would like to say a few things on the one hand about subsidiarity, on the other hand about the legal basis and on the other about how we have ended up in this situation. All of these three things are quite important. As regards the legal basis, it is explicitly stated in the Constitution of the European Union that the European Union does not have the power to legislate on minimum wages, Article 152. 5, if I don't remember wrong. This is probably one of the most obvious violations of the EU's powers that I have ever seen. Only on that basis should there be much stronger protests among some Member States – Sweden is among them – than we have seen. The legal basis and the fact that it is so lacking in this respect is actually more distressing than just subsidiarity. If we are to say something about subsidiarity, this issue does not have a direct cross-border dimension. We have the posting rules that regulate when a person from one country works in another country. Furthermore, we have a situation in the EU where there is a great deal of difference between the different countries in terms of how to decide or how to set wages in other ways, for example through party negotiations as we do here. Looking at the purpose of the principle of subsidiarity and those rules, it is quite clear that this proposal is once again a gross violation, perhaps one of the greatest that I have seen. Fortunately, the committee has been able to agree on this. I'm really glad we've been able to agree on a text. It would have been genuinely bad for Sweden and for the work ahead if we had not been able to agree on a common text. It is important that we show a united front. There must be no doubt in Brussels that there are differences in the degree to which we oppose this proposal. I'm glad we were able to agree after a little bit about and but about a text. I naturally support the committee's proposal to adopt that text as a reasoned opinion. There is also reason to criticise the way in which this issue has been dealt with by the government. The origin of the proposal is the social pillar adopted in 2017 at a summit in Gothenburg. Paragraph 6 of the social pillar explicitly states that it wants the Union to go ahead with legislating in the field of minimum wages. The draft directive, for its part, refers to the declaration in no less than eight places. It is clear that there is a clear link between the two documents. When we raise this issue in the Swedish Parliament, the government parties repeatedly defend themselves with: This is something that we have discussed before since the 90s, the 80s, or what it is. There is no link between the very pillar and this proposal. It's obvious nonsense. When we know that there are ongoing discussions within the Union on proposals that are genuinely bad and harmful to Sweden, it is the government's task to keep those proposals as far away from the legislative agenda as possible. It should not initiate a political declaration which puts those very proposals on the agenda and says: now is the time to start the legislative work. That is exactly the opposite of how this government should have acted. There's really not much more to say about this. The question of subsidiarity and the legal basis are obvious to me, and we are quite in agreement there. But when it comes to the government's handling of this, there is every reason to be critical.
i-925becd649952333-1310	Madam President, I would like I just want to say what many have said here today: just when we have celebrated the great victory for the Swedish model of partnership with the majority of Swedish trade unions and employers who have been able to agree on a new key historic agreement that modernises labour law and the transition in Sweden, it is sad that a directive from the European Commission now risks undermining the Swedish model of partnership by insisting over the head on Swedish trade unions and employers wanting to impose minimum wages at European level. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. One can be just as friendly to the European Union and as committed as ever to a border-free Europe that is helping together to defeat covid-19, the economic crisis that we have right now and, of course, the climate crisis. At the same time, it can be pointed out and rejected without any hesitation that the EU has the right to enter into the Member States' wage formation and wage conditions, to introduce minimum wages and to declare wage setting as a matter of general application negotiated by two contracting parties. It is to go in and destroy the Swedish model. Contrary to what Sweden has expressly wanted, the European Commission has now moved on with its misguided and misconceived proposal on minimum wages. I would first like to say what many have said: we warned against this. When the government proudly, at home, pulled together to the Gothenburg Summit on the social pillar and said that it could guarantee that this would not come up, we warned precisely that this could threaten the Swedish model. At that time, we and many others were portrayed as unreasonable and alarming. Unfortunately, however, it has now become just that way. The social pillar has grown alarmingly in recent years, calling for everything from travel bills to wage regulation via bureaucratic standards and now for minimum wages. That is why it is not just for Sweden's sake, but for the sake of Europe's own sake, that we have to sue in the stream. The whole idea that you can face social dissatisfaction and populism – as we have in this country too – with increased regulation and bureaucracy around the labour market from Brussels is completely upside down. That is precisely when the European Union is going to do what it has to do, cross-border, but stay away from and clear the gap. This is something we came up with in committee as well. In the case of minimum wages, the whole thing is fundamentally wrong. This is contrary to Article l53(5) of the Treaty, which states that it does not explicitly have the competence to enter into wage relations. It is also, in fact – even if it is not part of the trials currently being carried out – against Article 153(1)(f), which defends the right to conclude collective agreements. It is also these problems that have led to a judicial review of this at the request of a number of Member States, including Sweden. The error goes all the way to the Treaty. Of course, wage formation in Sweden is not a primary supranational issue. That is why I naturally support the committee's rejection of this in line with the principle of subsidiarity. Sweden is granted an exception because we are one of the countries with high levels of collective bargaining. Everyone realises that our model is an example and nothing needs to be sabotaged. But that is not a safe exception. It is not certain that it will tolerate judicial review in the Court of Justice of the European Union, and there is a risk that the lack of respect that permeates the whole directive will undermine the opt-out. That is why, Madam President, we are in line with the subsequent discussions on the minimum wage directive that follow. Firstly, agreement. It is extremely important right now for Sweden. At the moment, there is a chance that all parties in Parliament will agree in opposition to this directive, as they have done in this House today, together with all the social partners. Such a collection in our country behind our Swedish model is of enormous importance and will undoubtedly be visible and marked in Brussels – if it can last. That is why, Mr President, I appeal to my colleagues from the Social Democrats and the Moderates, among other things, to review their short-term battles on this issue. Although we, like the Moderates, have not appreciated the government's historical handling of the issue, I appeal to you that we gather around a joint powerful position for Sweden. That is why, of course, we have joined forces with a common position in the subsidiarity test and have saved our possible complaints for a specific opinion. Secondly, at this first stage and in every way, together with other countries, we are going to persuade the Commission in every way that goes in this process to withdraw its proposal. It is a position we expect the government to pursue as far as possible, as long as it is possible at all. Thirdly, if the European Commission does come forward with the proposal, we expect the government and all parties to do their utmost to ensure that all the amendments that can be made to the directive to defend the Swedish model are fully implemented. There is no room here for Swedish negotiators to, if the accident is after all, principled and beautifully fall on their sword and leave it to others to decide over our Swedish model. Here I expect all of us to hunt the Commission and the other Member States for every sentence, every word and every comma that needs to be changed to protect the Swedish model. On this subject, I really believe that there is a unique and fundamental consensus in this House at the bottom. Then there is no shame in putting aside, for once, the hatchet between our parties and, instead, together, also with our social partners, directing our full energy towards convincing the rest of the European Commission – and the European Commission of Gubeserved – to stop this unnecessary and harmful proposal.
i-925becd649952333-1325	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that it is gratifying that the committee agrees entirely in principle with the report, that is to say that all parties in the Swedish Parliament support the proposal that the Parliament should notify the European Commission and the other EU institutions that the Commission's proposal on minimum wages is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. Simply put, it means that the EU is interfering in something that it should not interfere in and in a way that it, according to its own statutes, does not get either. The concrete result at this stage is therefore that the committee proposes that the Parliament submit a so-called "reasoned opinion" to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. If enough parliaments across the EU do the same, a so-called yellow card will arise and the Commission will have to review its proposal. I guess you'll see how that goes. In Sweden, criticism of the proposal has been very harsh both from the employers' side and from a collective trade union movement. It is good that Parliament's parties also understand why and act against the solution that the European Commission has chosen to take forward. On this issue, the government has also taken active action so far, with contacts that have been made with both the European Commission and governments in other EU countries. I think it is reasonable to pay tribute to the government, even though it has not so far led the way in the meeting with the EU's bureaucratic-political machinery. I must say in this context that our friend from the Moderates gave a direct false picture of what happened at the meeting of the Labour Committee with the Labour Minister in the past. That discussion was not carried out in the manner that Mats Green claimed. However, one might say that there were some difficulties in understanding what Mats Green's criticism at this meeting was really about. That uncertainty persisted even after the written submission of an opinion on that discussion. Everyone can have a bad day; that could be it. But you don't have to give a false picture of things that happened at the meeting. In any case, the situation that has arisen is certainly quite typical of the way the European Union acts and functions. For a long time, the unfortunate combination of a market-liberal rigidity, on the one hand, a supranational distance to national democratic processes, has fueled problems of wage dumping, growing inequality and undermined trade union rights across the Union. It is therefore perfectly understandable and also welcome that there has been a counter-movement in many parts of Europe. Even right-winging potentates in the EU – which should be most – are feeling the pressure to act on these issues. The problem is that this system, in contrast to what Swedish voters were described in connection with the EU referendum, is often too clumsy to deal with these important problems in a way that works in all EU Member States. This is also the reason why the so-called guarantees that the present proposal will provide to countries with collective wage models, in practice Sweden and Denmark, are not guarantees. However, questions of interpretation may arise, and then the European Court of Justice's action to keep the acquis in the Union together will fall back on it. As you know, there is no guarantee that things will work out as planned. Madam President, I would like I could have stayed there and only supported the proposal in the report, on which there is therefore agreement. However, as is evident from today's debate, there are a number of specific opinions from the various right-wing parties, and I think there is reason to comment on them here. A recurring claim is that the European Commission's proposal is a direct consequence of the so-called social pillar, which was adopted at an EU summit in Gothenburg in 2017. This continues to be a rather strange statement. On the one hand, discussions on statutory minimum wages precede the process of the social pillar. On the one hand, the very point of the construction of the social pillar is that it does not give the EU any new legal space. On the one hand, if the EU system had acted in the past to help solve or reduce some of the problems that the Union's market-liberal fundamentals in themselves create in many people's lives across the EU, the pressure for implementing a poorly thought-out proposal on wage setting would have been less. This is also something that both the Swedish and Danish trade union movements have stated in their opinions on this issue. But then there is the very remarkable wording contained in the special opinion of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The government does not defend the Swedish model when what is most needed and we do not believe that the government realises the extent of the consequences this will have. ..................................................... I am certainly not an uncritical friend of all the actions of this government on labour market issues or, for that matter, European issues. But it is still quite amazing to hear that particular criticism from these parties. Perhaps our comrades in this House have missed it themselves, but I have not at least forgotten the action, both in government and afterwards, concerning, among other things, lex Laval. On the contrary, it has been very important for the same parties to actively use the EU system to attack the Swedish model on the labour market. It is suddenly important that the Swedish trade unions are not able to act to counteract dumping of wages and working conditions precisely in the way that is at the heart of the Swedish model, that is, through agreements and the possibility to fight for such agreements. It has not been long since we stood in this House discussing the fact that the bourgeois parties wanted to reintroduce lex Laval, which came about because the European Court of Justice ran over the Swedish model. It was a surprising decision of the Court of Justice in 2007 that undermined our model in a fundamentally important way and, at the same time, diverted the practice of millions of workers across Europe. In connection with this, the then bourgeois government took the opportunity to implement even greater restrictions on the law of conflict in connection with secondment than was demanded by the European Court of Justice. When an opportunity arose during the last parliamentary term to regain some of the room for manoeuvre for the Swedish model, the bourgeois side wanted to close that possibility. Instead, there were calls for supranational aid to weaken the opportunities for vulnerable workers to enjoy the solidarity on which trade union struggles are based everywhere and which is a crucial part of the Swedish model, in which the state keeps away from wage formation. Against this background, one could imagine that the bourgeois parties lay a little low with precisely that kind of objection to the government's actions. Instead, attacks are supposed to be the best defence, but at the cost of losing credibility in this matter. There may be differences of opinion on this, Madam President, but I would nevertheless like to conclude with a happy statement that the decision itself on the reasoned opinion can nevertheless be taken in agreement.
i-925becd649952333-1339	Madam President, I would like As always in budgetary times, the theme of Ali Esbati and Left Party denial is reality. I note that, unfortunately, this does not only apply to this week, but also to the previous week and the committee meetings we had at that time. I am a little surprised that Ali Esbati dismisses the perfectly justified criticism that the trade unions and also the employers' side have made against the government and its defensive approach to minimum wage issues. Does Ali Esbati also deny that, in its opinion on whether this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, the government could only say that it was doubtful whether it was compatible with the principle of subsidiarity? Ali Esbati is also here denying that this would have to do with the social pillar. All of this is in some way undeniable, so we will probably not be able to make any progress in that discussion, but we will just have to say that it is precisely the undeniable fact. But it would be interesting to hear a comment about the justified criticism that has been levelled at the government by trade unions on this issue. I would also like to ask Ali Esbati: do he and the Left Party think that the proposal for a directive that we received from the Commission on 28 October was a partial victory or a setback? The answer to that question is very important, especially for the future. Is it a partial victory, or is it a setback?
i-925becd649952333-1343	Madam President, I would like I note that Mats Green begins his line by saying that we are in budgetary times. I think that is the most important reason why we have this discussion – that Mats Green feels that he would prefer to discuss budgetary issues and perhaps with someone other than me, who does not represent the government's budget. But leave it alone! We are now discussing this issue. My statement of reality from the discussion with the government is that you can read the dissenting opinion that the Moderates had during the deliberation. It shows that it is the historical view that we want to discuss. At the committee meeting, we all agreed that we wanted to discuss the government's position in the future. We agreed, but Mats Green did his utmost to try to find something to conduct opposition politics around. God knows you're entitled to it, but it's not that responsible. Above all, it becomes strange if you give a false picture of how it actually happened at the meeting; that is more what I reacted to. As far as the use of the word is concerned, Mats Green will also know that this is a legal issue – the Legal Department of the Government Office will give its opinion. The position is that it simply feels that this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. That is also the position taken by Parliament. Is it a partial victory? No, of course it's a setback. However, it is good in the process that the Commission has noted that Sweden has a different model. But, of course, it is only bad that this proposal has been tabled, and we all agree on that.
i-925becd649952333-1347	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati admits it was a setback. At the same time, however, he believes that the government's strategy and line have been successful. This does not make sense under any circumstances. The word may be discussed with hesitation, but we can also note that the Left Party has been doubtful, to say the least, about any form of harsher wording in addition to government writing, which states that it is doubtful whether this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. The improvement made by the government's position in committee was not enough but it was still an improvement, but the Left Party did not contribute to it but was rather hesitant if we re-use that word. It does not therefore make sense to note, on the one hand, that the Commission's proposal of 28 October on minimum wages was a setback, and, on the other hand, that the Swedish Government's approach has been successful. Madam President, I would like It has clearly not been, and that is what I mean, among other things, when I am in a shift with the Left and discussing reality. If it is a setback, as the Left Party now admits it is, then the line may not have been very successful either. It's an undeniable fact.
i-925becd649952333-1351	Madam President, I would like I am doubtful about much of the much heavier calibre in this discussion. I have doubts about the whole European project. I was campaigning for a Swedish no and still think it would have been better if Sweden had voted no in that referendum. I'm also very hesitant about the government platform to govern. It is clear that the result so far of the behaviour that has been bad, and we agree on that. The problem is that Mats Green through various abrovines is trying to make it that he had a better idea of how things were going to happen. But he hasn't. We'll see how this goes in the future. Our attitude is clear. This is a very bad proposal, and we should do everything we can together to avoid something that is over-wrought to the Swedish parties. Then it is good that the government has the support to act as clearly as it is expressed in the positions that have been taken. It is very possible that the government would not have acted so clearly if there had not been pressure from the Riksdag, but I cannot answer that. There are many occasions where the government has acted very badly on European issues. However, it gets a little strange when Mats Green, who has previously not had so much against the EU running over the Swedish model, now comes with this kind of criticism – hence my lines.
i-925becd649952333-1357	Madam President, I would like On this issue, we would not have to have political distance without political unity. But it's like that. The Left Party Member has tried to find disagreement, and so I would like to reiterate that we will do everything, including with the Left Party, to achieve unity, and we do not understand why we are trying to provoke contradictions. But just in case, I'll take this opportunity to ask Ali Esbati two questions. The fact that a number of movements in Europe, which Ali Esbati thinks are positive, questions that Sweden has the right to have a partner model free of European minimum wages, is that good or, as I think, bad? The fact that the government called a summit that raised minimum wages on the EU agenda and unequivocally contributed to the fact that it has now become a concrete proposal from the Commission, is it good or bad?
i-925becd649952333-1361	Madam President, I would like I generally have nothing against disagreement, but it is a bit funny to discuss it with Martin Ådahl on this particular issue. We do not happen to have a specific opinion here, but it is the Center Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates who have specific opinions in the report we are debating. That is what I wanted to discuss in these specific opinions, and it is reasonable to do so. Is it bad that there are those who have found that you should wood another wage model over the Swedish? Yes, of course it's very bad. I also tried to say in my main speech what systemic root causes there are, but we can discuss that another time. Was it good that the government was involved in organising that summit? In general, I think that most of what is happening in the EU is bad. But yes, it was great that we were able to take a step forward in raising social issues in Europe, in the way we do in the social pillar, namely by underlining that what we should do is follow up and say that it is important, for example, to address the lowest wages but not to do so by giving the EU new legal powers. That is the point of the formulation of the social pillar. The discussion about being able to legislate on minimum wages has long existed in the European Union, and we have always felt that it was bad.
i-925becd649952333-1365	Madam President, I would like Yes, it was almost clear, but perhaps not quite on the last question. I can see that there is some enthusiasm about the social pillar in you and others. And it was precisely the various assessments of the risks of the social pillar that led us and others to back off at the time. Now we have to have a special opinion to remind you that this process can continue. There is something called 883 and something called wage transparency in the EU. These have benevolent motives but go in and regulate the Swedish labour market over the head of Swedish unions and employers. Since lex Laval came up, I'm gonna talk about it for a second. Firstly, it is clearly a supranational issue, in other words, where the EU has powers. It is explicitly a question of someone being seconded from one labour market to another. Thus, it concerns two countries that are part of the EU. This is a completely different issue from the one we are debating now, namely wage formation in Sweden on the Swedish labour market. In addition, the point of the question was that one should respect the conditions that existed in Sweden but not subject these people to a pressure that went too far with blockades and the like in a total lack of respect for the very principle of posting. That is why this response came. Just so it's said. I am pleased that Ali Esbati was nevertheless clear that it is not a good idea to raise minimum wages. At least that's how I understood it. Furthermore, it is not good that many powerful leftist movements want to impose minimum wages on Swedish trade unions, wage earners and employers.
i-925becd649952333-1371	Madam President, I would like My enthusiasm for the EU system in general, unlike Martin Ådahl, is very limited. That is a position that I have not had reason to re-evaluate. What is the discussion here is what can be done to try to do it as well as possible in the situation in which we find ourselves, where the flag hangs in this Chamber and Sweden is a member of the European Union. There we agree on certain things, for example that it is a bad thing to put forward a proposal for a directive that undermines the Swedish wage-setting model. Other things we do not agree on. That's how it should be, and that's how it will be. As far as lex Laval is concerned, I pointed out that the problem is, beyond the substance of the matter, that there was no problem in joining the employers' organisations in order to change the situation in terms of wage formation and relations between the parties on the Swedish labour market. Martin Ådahl is obviously still there. It is good that more people are aware of this because it has such a big impact on how you view the Swedish labour market in the future, both in terms of posting and more generally. Nevertheless, I choose to be pleased that we agree that it is important to act against the specific design of EU regulations that risk having negative effects on Swedish wage formation.
i-925becd649952333-1375	Madam President, I would like In its opinion on the subsidiarity assessment of the Commission's proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages in the European Union, the committee proposes a reasoned opinion which we support. The committee's assessment is that the proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. It is the principle that should provide guidance at which level a decision should be taken. We definitely believe that matters relating to salaries under the Treaty belong at national level. We Christian Democrats are strongly critical of the Commission's proposal, which clearly lacks a legal basis and which fully covers measures to be dealt with at national level. Since we see great advantages in a united committee for a reasoned opinion to the European Commission in the subsidiarity review, we have chosen to support the reasoned opinion. On the other hand, we have a specific opinion which I would like to say a little about. This concerns a question that has been raised by several. The opinion points out that we are still very critical of the government, which has been the driving force behind the adoption of the social pillar of social rights. The signature of the Pillar by EU Member States in 2017 has led to a series of legally binding Commission initiatives in the social and labour market policy field. Several of the proposals have now been adopted and are already legally binding instruments. This was something that we could foresee right from the start, and we can only regret that the government did not see it coming. We pointed this out to the government, which closed its eyes and chose not to listen. A Social Democrat who had previously been Minister of State, Allan Larsson, had been involved in drafting the proposal. It was probably blinded by the fine words of the social pillar, which are legitimate, but where we could clearly see that they would involve a great deal of interference in our national self-determination. The proposal on minimum wages is a direct result of the pillar, and we are concerned about the development of the social pillar. Furthermore, we are strongly critical of the government's inability and dual message regarding the proposal on minimum wages. Despite the government's declared hopes to the contrary, the government's strategy to counteract the proposal has clearly failed. The government does not defend the Swedish model when it is needed at its best, and we do not believe that the government understands the extent of the consequences. In addition to risking undermining the Swedish labour market model in which the social partners negotiate labour market conditions, the various initiatives of the social pillar open the way for the EU to continue to ignore national competences in the social and labour law field. The other day, the Prime Minister went down to the EU and would then make a decision to run a Health Union. My question to the Prime Minister was then whether this could risk becoming like the social pillar, that is, that suddenly the European Union will intervene more in our health policy systems. He said it was definitely not the target. I don't know. I believe that we need to be more vigilant and clear with the European Union about what its powers are really about. The government believes it can export the Swedish labour market model, but that is something that all Member States have to decide on at national level. We know that partner cooperation does not work in many EU countries. We visited Greece, for example, a few years ago, and we were told that the parties did not cooperate at all. This cannot be solved by the European Union, but we must realise that Europe has its limitations – and should have them. On the other hand, we can support other countries that want to learn from our model, but this happens in the traditional work of exchanging experiences – not through legislation. Madam President, I would like Now the government must try to be clear in its work forward in order to stop the proposal for a legally binding proposal and safeguard the Swedish labour market model. The government must be clear that the EU does not have the power to set wage levels in the Member States. The EU should not negotiate the directive until the national parliaments' scrutiny of the subsidiarity issue is completed and the Council's Legal Service has expressed its views on the matter. If, however, the Commission's proposal for a directive subsequently persists, we have said in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that active action by the government is needed to ensure that the proposal is designed in a way that respects our national system and the autonomy of the social partners. This means, among other things, that a proposal must not lead to a requirement for Sweden to introduce universally applicable collective agreements or statutory minimum wage. I support the committee's proposal.
i-925becd649952333-1385	Madam President, I would like Too many people in the EU do not have a living wage. Lifting more out of poverty is good for the whole Union. However, doing so by means of binding directives is not the way forward. Wage formation is national competence, and must be national competence. That is why the Liberals also support the committee's position on the subsidiarity assessment of the proposal on minimum wages. Believe it or not, despite today's debate, it is actually a united committee that supports the opinion. We, like the rest of the committee, expect the government to forcefully push the issue in EU cooperation and to follow the Swedish line and position.
i-925becd649952333-1387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, all the previous speakers, for having the pleasure of spending the evening in this House in the Social Security Committee. Madam President, I would like Three and a half hours – the average life expectancy increases every 24 hours. It is almost breathtaking to admit that a child born today lives on average three and a half hours longer than a child born yesterday. It is gratifying that we are living longer and more alert. But it is also a challenge for our pension system, which is what we are debating here today. For the Moderates, the basic principle is that working should pay off. But it should also pay off working. That is why we need to strengthen pensions for those who have worked and worked a lifetime. You can do it in different ways. If you want changes in the short term, here and now, you have to make changes in the state budget. Either you spend money, as we are now doing with a pension supplement, or you lower taxes on pensioners, as we moderates do. The government's budget for next year has chosen to reduce tax only for the half of the pensioner collective that earns the most. Thus, the so-called pensioner tax is not abolished by the government during this term of office, although the Social Democrats promised to do so during their term of office both for the 2014 elections and for the 2018 elections and despite the fact that the January agreement stated that the gap would be gone by 2020. It's much easier to promise than to make promises. In the Moderate Budget Movement, we propose that the tax be reduced for all who earn at least SEK 13 000 per month. On an average pension, the tax is reduced with the Moderates' proposal by SEK 300 per month, and we propose tax reductions up to a maximum of SEK 550 on higher pensions. Thus, the tax cut by the Moderates is four times as large as the government's tax cut – nearly SEK 10 billion. Moderate tax cuts would mean that there would no longer be a difference in taxation between pensioners and those who work. So we close the tax gap entirely between those who work and those who have worked, because that is right and fair. Justice is also the so-called distance of respect. It should be visible in retirement if you have the whole life set the clock, fixed the lunch box and the sleep drink made it to work. Today there is far too little difference between the one who has worked a whole life with low pay and the one who has not worked at all. In our budget, we therefore propose removing the exception contained in the guarantee pension, which means that those who come here as immigrants do not need to qualify for the scheme. The same rules should apply to everyone, because it is right and fair. Madam President, I would like If, in the long term, we are to receive robust pensions that reflect the income of life and are able to cope with the increase in life expectancy, then long-term changes in the pension system and not just in the state budget are required. These issues are dealt with by the Pensions Group. For us Moderates, it is important that changes in the pension system are made with broad support in the Pensions Group. The Pensions Group ensures stability over time for the benefit of future pensioners. Pensions are particularly ill-suited to short-term political decisions. The pension group must therefore never become an arena for political games. It only affects pensioners of the future. In order to strengthen pensions, we need a series of measures that we are currently working with in the Pensions Group. Among other things, it is a matter of safeguarding the freedom of choice and the security of the premium pension system, where good economic development can make a big difference. It's about making it easier for those who want and can work longer. But then the working environment must also be strengthened so that we can cope with it. It is about combating age discrimination, so-called ageism. Given how old we become in Sweden, it is strange how fast we are to ignore the routine and competence that comes with age and life experience. We must also put the light on equality. A strong contributory factor to the differences in pensions between men and women is the fact that women's careers still tend to stop to some extent in 2020 when the first child has been born. Until then, we are very equal, both in salary and in career, but then something happens. We women are generally at home longer with the children and take greater responsibility for vab. It hampers our careers, which also has an impact on our pensions and our financial autonomy as seniors. They were some of the many questions we're working on. They are incredibly important, but I would like to stress once again how important it is to have a broad consensus and foundation in the Pensions Group. Madam President, I would like The Moderates' draft budget is a coherent whole, and since the Parliament in the framework decision has supported the government's framework, we do not participate in the present decision but refer to our specific opinion.
i-925becd649952333-1406	Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, it is important that every person who reaches retirement age should not have to settle for a pension corresponding to the so-called subsistence minimum. Swedish pensioners should not have to constantly worry about how they will cope with the costs until the next payment. No person should have to work far beyond the retirement age to make the transition between pay and pension economically sustainable. It is an important issue to ensure that safety nets are so comprehensive that the concept of a poor pensioner no longer exists. For the Swedish Democrats, pension policy is a priority. Unfortunately, for our elderly, financial security has gone in the wrong direction for a long period of time. In a September article in the Senioren newspaper, we read that an increasing number of pensioners are at risk of poverty. Compared to our neighbours, we have an unacceptably high proportion of poor pensioners. Therefore, we have chosen to invest a total of SEK 3.4 billion more than the government in Category 11 in the coming budget period. As the framework is already set, we present our draft budgets in this report in a separate opinion. The group with the lowest pension is mainly made up of women. Often they have worked part-time or been at home caring for children, or for other reasons such as illness or injuries today they depend on the guarantee pension and have a pension that is barely viable. For the next budget period, we have therefore proposed an increase of SEK 800 in the guarantee pension, which then totals SEK 1 000 with the Government's previous increase of SEK 200. This is intended to strengthen the economy of the most vulnerable pensioners. In addition to increasing the guarantee pension for the most vulnerable and reducing tax, there are other measures we want to do that may go slightly beyond our spending in Category 11, but nevertheless are important for a strengthened pension as a whole. We believe that today's pension is too low for anyone who has worked and worked his whole life. We know that the target of 80% of the final salary in retirement is something few receive. Therefore, the pension problem calls for both short-term and long-term measures. The pension system is not financially sustainable in the sense that citizens do not receive a sufficiently high pension measured as a proportion of final salary. We believe that there should be a so-called distance of respect and a distinction should be made between the pension if a person has worked throughout his or her life or has not worked at all. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are critical of the qualifying rule for the guarantee pension that exists today. This means that immigrants who have been granted a residence permit for reasons of refugee or other protection need can be credited time in their home country when determining the amount of the guarantee pension. We believe that the same rules should apply to everyone who lives here and that it is time in Sweden to be credited. This means a saving of SEK 800 million within the guarantee pension. Madam President, I would like Any improvement in the pension is good, and it is positive that the government strengthens the pension through the pension supplement. We support this in our budget. The only question is whether it is a long-term sustainable solution. Sweden has one of the world's highest taxes, and I think most people who live here are in favour of paying taxes if you know that it really goes to a sustainable and generous welfare. Our common tax cake should be distributed in a way worthy of people living here, including those who have reached old age. That is why we have for a long time been pushing for the so-called pensioner's tax to be removed and for the pension to be regarded as deferred salary. It is good that the government, too, has finally begun to realise this and has taken steps in that direction. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude this speech with a warm greeting to all those who take a great deal of responsibility during this pandemic, especially to you older people who isolate you in order to avoid being infected. Our struggle for a better economic situation, a reduction in the spread of infection in our retirement homes and a more dignified pension and life situation in the early years will continue.
i-925becd649952333-1419	Madam President, I would like This year, the government has ensured that, on the basis of the agreement reached in the Pensions Group, the basic protection is increased by up to over SEK 1 000 per month for the most deprived pensioners – a significant contribution for those who have turned and turned over each crown to afford Christmas gifts for their grandchildren. In opposition, it must be a little bit more to invite over. I understand that it is in this spirit that Jennie Åfeldt and the Swedish Democrats propose a further increase in the guarantee pension of SEK 800. At the same time, however, I note that Jennie Åfeldt is not so keen to tell us that at the same time they want to lower the housing allowance. In addition, their proposals make it less profitable for those who have worked and worn out their entire working life. Madam President, I would like I'm a little interested to hear what Jennie Åfeldt has to say about these two parts.
i-925becd649952333-1422	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, honourable Member. This is the case that I do not have these questions. They're not mine. I've been there for a party partner who couldn't attend today. I therefore apologise if I cannot give an answer.
i-925becd649952333-1423	Madam President, I would like Then I won't take too much time with this line shift. Perhaps we can get answers in another forum.
i-925becd649952333-1424	Madam President, I would like The pensioners have had to stand back this year. The Coronapandemia has greatly restricted the lives of 70-plusers. Maybe Christmas is celebrated alone. Some may participate in the Community digitally via the network. Others do not have that privilege. For several of us there will be a completely different celebration this year. At many Christmas dinners, grandparents will be missing. The difference between people continues to grow, not least with the government's and the cooperation parties' proposals for the budget. We're getting older, they say, but it doesn't apply to everyone. We're not gonna die at the same time, you and me. The increase in class differences has led to even a fall in the life expectancy of short-term educated women. For our coronah heroes who work in healthcare and care, the increased retirement age that now applies means that they have to work an ever longer part of their ever shorter lives. And let's say as it is: how can an increased retirement age be implemented when the body of many of those who work in these industries does not even last to 65? The trend today is exactly the opposite: working life is getting tougher and more people decide that they have to retire earlier, even though it is economically very unfavorable. That should be taken care of. Madam President, I would like The pension system does not work, not because the retirement age has been too low, but because the pensions are too low. Every fourth person gets anxiety from getting home the orange envelope, and 13-year-olds feel they have to start saving for their pension. That is a legitimate concern. Those who retire today will receive only half the final salary. Madam President, I would like Why is it always the elderly who are going to get worse? Those who have worked and built the country will pay when those who have wanted even more. It's shameful. Today we Swedes work the longest throughout the EU. At the same time, we are at the bottom of the issue of the level of pensions. We have the largest share of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Nearly half of all women who are old-age pensioners today have part of the guarantee pension, i.e. the lowest level of protection available. The increased retirement age will also not pay off in the pension envelope for those who work as a nurse, for example. It'll barely be noticed in the wallet. According to Kommunal's calculations, each individual worked year after the age of 66 gives only about SEK 150 more a month for their members. The reason we have this situation is because the system is underfunded. That's the main reason we have so low pensions. It has a significantly greater impact than the retirement age. That's why you can work a whole life and still get a pension that's not more than half your salary. The Left Party wants payments to be increased to the pension system. The tax should also be equal regardless of what the income is called. The penalty tax paid by pensioners today is to be removed and the tax gap between pensioners and other wage earners is to be closed. It must be possible to live on your pension after an entire working life. Madam President, I would like Over 300 000 Swedish pensioners are at risk of falling below the EU poverty line. Every other woman who has worked her entire career receives such a low pension that she has a guarantee pension. The guarantee pension is now designed so that those who live on it lag behind the rest of the population. Since the introduction of the guarantee pension in 2003, pensioners with guarantee pensions have, on average, had a real income increase of 15%, compared with 45% for employees. Madam President, I would like These are people we're talking about. In Expressen a while ago, some pensioners described their everyday life: I can't afford to eat fish," says Jeniffer, 66. I only buy Christmas presents for my grandchildren every five years. I wish I could have some fun for my money, not just survive," says Kerstin, 66. Madam President, I would like The government is creating increased inequality. While far too little is being done for pensioners, taxes are being reduced for the already wealthy. The removal of the military tax costs just over 6 billion a year. For only a little more than half that amount, our proposal could have been accepted, but no. Instead, the government chooses to continue giving to those with the highest incomes. The new tax cuts for this year are enormous. But the pensioners will have to wait. The entire penalty tax will not be removed. Instead, the January parties choose, for example, to add that sum, and indeed a little bit more, to a reduction in employers' contributions for all young people between 19 and 23. According to all the assessors, this is a waste of time. Not another job it will create, the money goes into the lake and the older ones will stand back. But you have to give priority. I think, Madam President, that if we were to ask the young people themselves, they would rather have Grandma and Grandpa better off. Everyone thinks so, except perhaps the Swedish Parliament and McDonald's restaurant chain. For them it will be Christmas Eve every day in the coming years. Madam President, I would like Every pensioner should be able to afford to live well – Christmas present to the grandchildren, the extra golden edge to himself, eat a little better food, live and not just survive. Only the best is good enough for pensioners. The Left Party wants to raise pensions. We want another, fair pension system. We see the government's pro posal to make a contribution to the pension as a good thing. But that also proves what we have been saying for a long time, namely that the system is not working. It has to be done again. Increase payments to the system and ensure that there is a fair distribution between pensioners, is what we are proposing. The Left does not distinguish between pensioners and pensioners, which is why, of course, we are also proposing that the compensation be increased and that the penalty tax be removed for the country's so-called sickness pensioners, i.e. those who have sickness benefits. In addition, they should of course also be covered by the raised ceiling of the housing supplement. Madam President, I would like We want to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 800 per month in a first step. It will primarily benefit working women. We are told that it is bad because the distance of respect is not maintained. But that distance can't be maintained by those who have the worst? It is not a wise policy. It's not taking responsibility. Women who have worked part-time to care for children and family should not have to pay a high price for it. The Left Party here disagrees with, among other things, the Chairman of the Christian Democrats who says about women who have worked part-time and receive lower pensions: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Singing text goes: and so let the last sweet years be the best in our lives. But that's not for everyone. The Left Party wants to change that. I refer to our particular opinion.
i-925becd649952333-1448	Madam President, I would like A good pension for both current and future pensioners – that is what Christian Democrats' policy aims at. How we think we will be able to do this is better explained in the Christian Democrats' Party Movement than I can do in the few minutes that I intend to keep you here. We also have a specific opinion to which I refer, and that is because we are not taking part in the decision taken because our own budgetary framework has already fallen. For us Christian Democrats, the economy of pensioners has always been a priority. The possibility of living an active and safe life as a senior has many times to do with the economy. During the alliance governments, we negotiated five reductions in the tax on pensions and three increases in the housing supplement for pensioners. We Christian Democrats have then, in the budget after budget, put fully funded proposals that show how to remove the difference between tax on labour and tax on pensions – in contrast to the government's proposal where this difference still persists. Together with the Moderates and with the support of the Swedish Democrats, we ensured that all pensioners, not only those with a pension of over SEK 17 200, benefited from tax reductions through the 2019 budget. In the same budget, we also put an end to the special salary tax for the elderly introduced by the Promise Government, i.e. the extra tax for seniors who can and want to continue working as nurses, teachers and so on. We want to go further and introduce something that we call reinforced job tax deductions for those who are 69 years of age and older. This means that we ensure that anyone who can and wants to work at that age receives SEK 1 000 more in his wallet at a monthly income of SEK 20 000. We believe it is important to send clear signals that the Swedish labour market needs seniors. We need to encourage them, and that is also the aim of tax relief. Madam President, I would like I note that it is easy for those who want to see and check that Christian Democrats give priority to the situation of the elderly, not only when it is an electoral movement. Madam President, I would like I was going to dwell on the issue of equal pensions. It's important. It is a fact that today's female old-age pensioners generally have lower pensions than men. We are now looking at this in the Pensions Group. At the same time, there are those who believe that quotas for parental leave could be a solution. The problem is, it's not true. In these coronatides there are many news that are not noticed, so also a report from KPA Pension that was released almost exactly a month ago. There, KPA shows that the reform, even in a couple's households where the spouses share almost equally on parental leave, does not lead to equal pensions. In its assessment of the effects of the reform, KPA notes that they are small, particularly on the future old-age pension. This is all due to the fact that the economic outcome for women is far too small, even if they take out very much less of parental leave. This is because it has no effect on salary income. The KPA states that we want equal pensions, and I believe that everyone in this House wants that, we must ensure that wage income is affected. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to mention three proposals which we Christian Democrats are pushing for and which would lead to more equal pensions. Since 1999, thanks to an initiative by us Christian Democrats, the pension system has a right to credit pension rights for so-called children's years. We want to extend the current limit of four years to five years for the parent who has had a lower income. These are mostly women. We also know that many today continue to work part-time even after the child's fourth birthday. The women are over-represented, so here too the women would get a better pension. We also want to strengthen pension rights. We want to increase today's 75% to 85% in terms of overall comparative income. It would help those with the lowest incomes to have better and higher pension rights. The Pensions Authority has looked at these two proposals and notes that the gap between men's and women's earnings to the general pension actually narrows with these proposals. The third proposal is that we want the premium pension to be automatically divided equally between parents as long as they have children in common who have not reached the age of 12. If you don't want to share it equally, you can apply for this. In fact, it is exactly the opposite of how it works today. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' budgetary options in this area of expenditure also mean that we remove the exception rule for refugees and other persons in need of protection in terms of qualification for guarantee pension. We also have a strengthening of the economy for pensioners with small margins by financing an increase in the ceiling of the housing supplement to pensioners to SEK 7 500 for single people and SEK 3 750 per person for cohabiting.
i-925becd649952333-1464	Madam President, I would like Those who have worked and worked hard should be able to retire and feel secure with a reasonable income. We Social Democrats went to elections to raise pensions, because we see that far too many people receive far too low a pension. Pensions must be increased, and our goal is that, in the long term, they should represent at least 70% of the final salary. We won't give up until we get there. This year we have, above all, increased the income of the most deprived pensioners, i.e. those who, for various reasons, have not been able to earn an adequate pension through employment. For them, many of whom are single women who have taken a great deal of responsibility for unpaid home and care work at a time when society looked different, there is a basic protection that is necessary for everyone to have a decent income anyway. Barely a year ago, we strengthened this basic protection, both by raising the guarantee pension and raising the ceiling in the housing supplement, in accordance with the agreement we had previously reached in the Pensions Group. This meant that 675,000 of the country's pensioners had a strengthened economy of up to well over $1,000 a month. Now we are taking the next step on the agenda for increased pensions. We Social Democrats are thus fulfilling our perhaps most important electoral promise. We are introducing a new income pension supplement for those who have worked and worn out a whole working life but who still receive a low pension. In fact, many times there is little difference in income between a pensioner who has worked and worked his whole life with a relatively low salary and one who has not worked at all. So the so-called distance from respect is unreasonably small today. While it was urgent to raise the incomes of those who were the most deprived, it should of course also pay off having worked. It is a question of justice and decency. That is why we are introducing the income pension supplement, which is aimed at pensioners who have built our country but who receive too low a pension, which is about half of the country's pensioners. It is about nurses who have worked hard in the care and care of our loved ones, child care workers and preschool teachers who have taken care of our children, bus drivers who have made sure that the communications to and from work have worked and many more who have struggled day after day, despite tough working conditions, part-time work and low pay. These are circumstances that have a negative impact on the pension. For the very group with a relatively low income pension, in the span of SEK 9 000 – SEK 17 000 per month, the pension will be increased by up to SEK 600 per month. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity, on the grounds that I have many questions about this, to stress that the pension supplement will not reduce, for example, the housing supplement or increase the home service fee. This is something that we have specifically taken into account in the rules on the income pension supplement. Madam President, I would like The increased basic protection and the new pension supplement are and have been important steps for us Social Democrats in our agenda for raising pensions, but our goal, as I said, is that pensions should be increased considerably more than that. We see that the pension system is under-financed and believe that a substantial increase in pensions within the framework of the pension system rather than through the state budget requires that we also increase the provision of the pension system. Higher payments would result in higher payments. So far, there have not been political conditions to do so, but we are very positive that the Pensions Group has agreed to review the issue of contributions. We are very keen to move forward in that area. At the same time, of course, we must remember that pension is a reflection of working life. It is therefore extremely important to improve working conditions so that everyone can actually work a full working life. We need to make sure that the possibilities for resettling are increased, but that those who are ill or worn out and who do not have the opportunity to saddle can feel security from surrounding social security schemes. Today, unfortunately, many, especially women, testify to the opposite. No one should have to spend any of their pension money prematurely, because it has disastrous consequences in terms of low retirement in the elderly. The pension system cannot compensate for either unsustainable or unequal working lives. Instead, we must ensure that the conditions, wages and conditions that apply to the labour market are fair, but I think that deserves a debate of our own. Madam President, I would like The pension should be something to look forward to. We will have a safe and strong society that will give back once you have done yours. We Social Democrats are not satisfied. That is why we are continuing to work on raising pensions both for today's and tomorrow's pensioners. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to support the committee's proposal.
i-925becd649952333-1475	Madam President, I would like Economic security in old age is basically based on two different elements. One is the pension we receive when we have worked a professional life and earned it, the other is a compensation that we receive from the state, the so-called guarantee pension, if we have not been able to work. The aim is that it should be the income that gives the most, as we have heard all the previous speakers say. But it is then dependent on what income we have had and whether our employers have paid in to occupational pensions. Not all employers do, and few know that it should be asked whether it should be paid into an occupational pension. It is therefore particularly important that we inform our young people about asking the employer about occupational pensions. If you have had a low income, which most women have, your pension will also be low. This means that those who have not had a high income are mainly women, and then one might wonder why women's professions should be the lowest paid. In fact, we have a responsibility to do something about that together. A year ago, the guarantee pension was increased, a compensation if you have not worked, and, as we have just heard, the housing allowance was also increased. That is good, and I am proud to have been one of those who have really pushed forward in this matter. For me, it's about equality. It is mostly women who are allowed to take part in the guarantee pension, and it is them extremely well off. But much more needs to be done. It is a right to receive a housing allowance. Many guarantee pensioners do not apply for housing allowance. I would like to emphasise that it is a right and not a contribution. Therefore, everyone entitled to housing allowance should be encouraged to apply for it. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the increase in the guarantee pension is very good, but it means that those who have worked for a full working life do not get much more. For that reason, me and the Center Party have pushed to correct it. I regret that the government has not prioritised this. As we have just heard from Teresa Carlvalho, the government has instead contributed to the fact that we have received a pension supplement to be paid to those who have an income of 9 000 – 17 000 SEK, and of course the majority goes to those who earn the most. It is a departure from the pension system, where it is occupational income that should reflect which pension you receive. We in the Pensions Group have, of course, approved the pension supplement, but we agree that we should develop a long-term way of increasing the distance of respect. The government has not yet taken up this discussion, although I and several others have stressed the importance of this. We also heard Teresa Carvalho say it's important. Then I would like to see an initiative by the government on this particular issue. Madam President, I would like Right now, we are working intensively in the Pensions Group to discuss how a procured fund square is to become a reality. For me and the Center Party, freedom of choice is the most important thing in this context. This means that we must inform and simplify everyone who wants to be able to choose funds, so that we do not automatically end up in the pre-election, the so-called "Såfan" that the state is in charge of. A little tip to Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi, who I hope will listen to this sometime, is to check with LO, which should be a simple contact. Their occupational pension agreement means that each year they notify pension savers that they can switch from the pre-election to their own choice. I have to mention one more thing, and that is that the government must inform us of the importance of understanding our pension system. The Government's aim, as stated in the report, was that more people should have knowledge of the principle of living income in order to influence their pension. Although more people have gone into mypension.se, the opportunity available to take part in their pension, knowledge of the principle of living income has not increased for either women or men. This is stated by the government itself. In other words, more information is really needed. It is needed in different ways both early in life and throughout life. Tools must be given to people about how they can affect our unique pension system. I have pointed this out several times in the Center Party and said that the important thing is to know what happens if you work part-time or if you take long parental leave. You need to know what entrepreneurs should think about and how quickly young people need to get into work. I am honestly concerned about this and wonder why the government is not working on this. They state that it is a problem that the Swedish people do not know about the pension system. These were my recommendations to the government. However, it is a report that we have to deal with, and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-925becd649952333-1487	Madam President, I would like I'm not gonna take a line on Solveig's business. I would never dare to do that on the issue of pensions. But above all, we think very much alike. I requested a reply for another reason. You, Solveig, have left the very sad news that you intend to leave Parliament at the turn of the year after 14 years in the Riksdag and after 14 years in the Social Security Committee. I will never forget the first time I listened to you in this House during a debate on pensions. It's not easy to get conjured up in a pension debate, but I actually did when I listened to you. You have enormous depth of knowledge, and it is really noticeable that you are passionate about caring for our common pension system and strengthening pensions. You share your knowledge very generously. Your hard work here in Parliament, in the committee and in the Pensions Group has really made a difference. I know you've made an impression that will be noticed for many years to come. Since we do not meet in committee at these strange times, I take this opportunity to take advantage of your last pension debate, at least as a parliamentary politician in this House, to express my sincere thanks on behalf of the committee for your fine work and for the good comradeship of the committee. Now you'll be retired yourself. I'm sure you'll be very representative of today's energetic and active seniors and not sit still very much. But as you yourself have said, you will finally live in the present. You don't have to watch your phone all the time. And you can let the family take their place. It's something we really treat you to. I know I speak on behalf of the whole committee when I say that we will miss you very much. Good luck with everything you're doing! Of course, you should hand over a huge bouquet, but we don't want you to forget us. So I have tried to get something a little more lasting. I'm not gonna hand it over, because you don't do that in Corona times. It's right next door.
i-925becd649952333-1494	Madam President, I would like What do you say? I'm almost crying. I've really enjoyed being in Parliament, every day and every second. I haven't complained a day when I've been allowed to come here. I'll admit that what I'm going to miss most is the Pensions Group and the job we're doing there. It's real, and we make a difference. This is something that everyone can benefit from. I wish you in the Pensions Group a very good luck. I'll think of you many times. I'm gonna miss Parliament. But I'm going to take part in another debate-- I promise to work until the last day-- and that's why I'm not going to thank you for me right now. A thousand million thanks, Maria! You're amazing.
i-925becd649952333-1498	I do not know if I have the opportunity to thank you, Solveig Zander, and therefore I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your work here in Parliament. And I wish you the best of luck with the active retirement life.
i-925becd649952333-1499	Madam President, I would like It is not easy to come after such a tribute. It is also not easy to come after such an eminent speaker on this subject. Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report. No one should have to worry about their finances when you get older. Our pension system is one of the most stable in the world, based on long-term agreements and on the work done by the Pensions Group. The group has worked for a very long time, and Solveig has certainly been one of the pillars of this. It pays in Sweden to work and pay for the pension system. Sweden has one of the world's most stable pension systems. Simply put, today's pensions are financed by those who work today, apart from the premium pension that each saves for itself. Right now we are working to find an even better system of choice and freedom. The more you pay in and the later you retire, the more you retire. Citizens are thus protected against political whims, and they benefit from working more and paying taxes. However, the pension supplement introduced by the government, as Mr Zander described well before me, now has a little bit to do with this. It nags the system at the edge when adding files outside the system. The basic thing is that everyone can have a decent financial situation in the autumn of their age, regardless of whether you have had a low-paid job as your only option during your life, if you have only had the opportunity to work for a short period of your life or if you have not been able to work for any reason at all during your life. Basic security must exist for everyone through what is called a guarantee pension. This is where the so-called distance of respect comes in. With a sensible floor in retirement for everyone, there must still be a significant difference if you work during a long working life or not, but the difference should be up from the floor. You shouldn't lower the floor for those who are already having a hard time. The housing allowance is a very important support for low-retirement pensioners. It is being raised to strengthen the economy of those with low pensions. This applies to both the level of remuneration and the ceiling of the maximum rent that can be reimbursed. It provides more money in the wallet and increases the possibility for pensioners to move to a safe and more accessible home. But there are so many obstacles to the full operation of this, such as the so - called removal tax. There are a number of different things that we must continue to plane down. We must also ensure that the housing allowance is actually applied for. Solveig Zander was in on this too. It is good that taxes should be reduced and that housing allowances should be increased for many old-age pensioners next year. However, it is not enough, because it does not hit enough and not good enough. Then, as a function-right spokesperson for the Liberals, I must point out in this debate that it is bad – not to say very bad – that the reduction in taxes and the increase in housing allowances next year does not apply to those who have sickness and activity benefits, Madam President. It's about those who used to be called early retirement. The government must come back to this in future budgets, and preferably in an additional budget. That is because it is important; it puts people with an incredibly weak economy outside. Madam President, I would like The knowledge, skills and experience of older people must be exploited not only in retirement but already in working life. That is why we are working to increase the age limit that indicates how long you have the right to remain at work, and it is now decided that the limit will be raised from 67 to 71 years. In the long term, the retirement age and the right – not the obligation, but the right – to remain in work should be linked to what Maria Malmer Stenergard was into, namely the development of life expectancy. There should be an automatic in it. We Liberals believe that those who work after 65 should not pay higher taxes but lower taxes. The Senior Labour Delegation, Madam President, has been tasked by the government to come up with proposals on how we can work towards a more inclusive and age-independent approach. They note that one in three seniors wants to work longer, that older people's health has improved dramatically, that older people are better educated, that the working environment has improved and that working longer is economically beneficial. Moreover, society, that is, all of us, needs the workforce to continue to afford social welfare services. The delegation's assessment is that the knowledge and experience of seniors need to be better exploited. Employers' attitudes towards senior workers must become more positive, and here the state actually needs to take precedence. The state is bad at having a year-long workforce and can get much better at it. It can lead to a longer working life. Here, too, the government has an important task to fulfil – to actually show that one is going ahead. The years-rich who continue to work today are among the self-employed and the liberal professions. They work as long as they are in demand, can cope and think that the work is fun. A good working environment and flexibility at the end of working life is very important. This proposal is very similar to the proposals made by former Minister of Social Affairs Gustav Möller in not just this Chamber, but also in the Parliament's Chamber, as early as 1964. Now, Madam President – 56 years later – the proposals must actually become a reality. In 2016, Nobel Prize winner Arvid Carlsson, 93 years old, wrote this in the book Årsrika:中 We live in a society where we are committed to using resources efficiently. In the elderly there is a huge amount of resources available, which, moreover, do not mind being used. It is strange that we in Sweden are so retarded and do not realize what a waste it is. To force older people out of the labour market is the worst. ..................................................... We Liberals think so too, Madam President.
i-925becd649952333-1514	Madam President, I would like I've got a pretty long script and I was going to start talking about the Corona Year, but I think I'm taking it out. I am content to say that this pandemic and this year has shown, if anything, that we need to take better care of our elderly and our pensioners. I think it is important to mention this in this context. In the Pensions Group, we have agreed to work towards higher, sustainable, safe and actually equal pensions. These are things that the Green Party is behind and on which we went to elections. We want to implement them. We have a pension system in Sweden that is fundamentally robust, and we have a political unity and breadth behind the system. Funding is mainly outside the budget, which guarantees long-term, sluggish mobility and security. Inertial mobility is a good thing, but it also has a price: now, long after the agreement was reached, we see that pensions are falling behind the general wage trend, that there is still a gap between what women and men are getting into retirement and that we still have too many pensioners who have it significantly flawed. It will then be with the system we have quite complicated to get the measures that we need to maintain the strong and, above all, secure pension system we want. Firstly, we need to increase pensions and ensure that pensioners, especially those in difficulty, receive a higher income each month. In the long term, it is a question of increasing contributions to the pension system. We need to increase pension contributions, and this is a discussion we need to take – soon. But no matter what happens, it will only have a real effect in many, many years. A somewhat faster solution, which we are now implementing, is to promote a longer working life. By working longer and paying more into one's own pension, each new pensioner also receives a real increase. However, it does not help those who are already pensioners. For that group, and for the most immediate effect, there are other measures. The MP-S government has since it took office six years ago gradually erased the pensioner tax imposed by the bourgeois majority. During this parliamentary term, we have also strengthened the basic protection of pensioners with the lowest pensions, and with this budget, the next step is taken in the form of the pension supplement which, when it comes into force, gives more to the wallet of more than half of Sweden's pensioners. There will be an immediate reinforcement of up to SEK 600 a month. In this way, we will strengthen pensions in the short, medium and long term. We raise pensions and maintain the security of the system. Secondly, this is about the long-term sustainability of the system. We are getting older, and the elderly are getting healthier. Here the longer working life and the increased age levels come back. The retirement age is rising and a rich age is being introduced, which is expected to gradually increase. Just a week ago, the Senior Labour Delegation submitted its final report. That report, and the many reports that the delegation has submitted in the past, show that we have good prospects for a longer working life and a productive working life up to the years. It's useful and good reading. Those who want, can and have the opportunity to work longer will have increased opportunities to do so. But we need to take action, ranging from removing obstacles to working with skills development, transition and lifelong learning. That's the last thing the government has now also announced a change of law that means that the country's higher education institutions will have to take greater responsibility for lifelong learning. But this also applies to other educations – The Environmental Party chose to facilitate studies at the University of Applied Sciences, for example, through a targeted study grant for people in the middle of working life. We call it development time. Unfortunately, that proposal disappeared in a tragic political game, I think, where the Left Party joined forces with the Swedish Democrats and got M and KD with them. However, we work further to enable professionals to continue their studies without going down too much in income and thus enabling a longer working life. A sustainable pension system requires a sustainable working life where we are able to work until retirement age, where we have the opportunity to develop with technology and requirements and where recovery is included. Madam President, I would like However, the sustainable pension system is also about how we invest our pension money. Last week, the Paris Agreement was five years old. Unfortunately, it seems increasingly hopeless to achieve the 1.5-degree target. But with joint efforts we can still achieve at least the alternative 2-degree target. But then we must ensure that emissions are prevented. Here our invested money plays a major role. We have tightened the requirements on how AP funds can and may invest. We will need a further tightening up of the climate, the environment and biodiversity, but also for security and human rights globally. Madam President, I would like The interaction between the pension system and working life is also evident when we discuss equality and equality on the third hand. The pension system is fundamentally, or at least in theory, gender neutral. It is not in the pension system, but in working life that injustices are growing. But in practice, the pension system works to reproduce, and in some cases reinforces, inequalities from working life. Our pensioners are not equal. Men have higher pensions. Women have more of a guarantee pension and are therefore among the groups with the most difficulties. This inequality follows up with income levels. Similar problems exist between socio-economic groups. The pension system transmits, and reinforces, inequality. We have many pensioners who are quite well off. But we have too many people who have it really cracker. Measures for a more equal and equal old age need to be made throughout the life chain from preschool and school, through higher education and working life, but also in the pension system. To conclude: The income pension supplement is a short-term measure. In the longer term, other measures are needed for more equitable pensions. We need to come back to these discussions. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-925becd649952333-1533	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank my good colleague for the clear and good presentation of our policy on pensions. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that we have far too many poor pensioners in Sweden. We also have several homeless elderly people, something that affects me badly. This is not least the result of the policies that have been implemented in this area. Here, the Social Democrats are beating their chests and putting forward measures and proposals against their own policies, if you look back. But it is good that we now see the situation with clear eyes and come up with concrete proposals, although not everyone is fully anchored in the long term. What is remarkable is that members of the government party of the country cannot read a budget motion and, in particular, not a motion on a field of expenditure. We Swedish democrats are strengthening the guarantee pension in our proposal and nothing else. We strengthen the guarantee pension with 800 SEK. This results in lower costs at the other end of the housing supplement. That's how it works. You add money into a pot, and then it is reduced in another pot. This is clearly based on figures from the parliamentary investigation service. That is what I want to clarify. I think it is an ugly rhetoric of the Social Democrats. I have no problem taking criticism if you think our policy is not correct. But it's ugly that you make up your own politics that we don't stand for.
i-925becd649952333-1539	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Linda Lindberg for clarifying the questions I put to Jennie Åfeldt in the past, which, unfortunately, were unable to answer the questions. I don't know if it in itself became so much clearer based on the answer given by Linda Lindberg. I guess I'll just have to ask the same question. When you read the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, it is quite clear that you are allocating a higher amount of money to the guarantee pension. At the other end, the costs of the housing supplement are reduced. Madam President, I would like That is exactly what I asked my question about. I wondered how the Swedish democrats reason when they do so. You give with one hand and take with the other. An attempt is being made to give the individual pensioner a boost of 800 kroner a month. But there is so much to increase the guarantee pension in the proposal that has been put forward. For the individual pensioner, this is not necessarily the result, as the housing supplement is reduced at the same time. I would like an answer to that.
i-925becd649952333-1545	Madam President, I would like That's exactly how it is. Nothing is unique. It is exactly the same when the government raises the guarantee pension, for example. It is clear that the result is that the gross income is increased for each pensioner, resulting in a reduced housing allowance. These are figures based on the parliamentary investigation service and nothing that the Swedish Democrats themselves stand and make up. It is also quite clear in the report, not least on page 20, that there are effects on the basis of proposals put forward. No, we do not lower the housing allowance for our pensioners. We do not go forward with such proposals. We come forward with a proposal to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 800.
i-925becd649952333-1548	Madam President, I would like Linda Lindberg now says in her line shift both that you do not lower the housing supplement and at the same time that you do. That's what's the effect. I would also like to make it clear that this was not the case when a year ago the government raised basic protection. Then we took it into account in the grounding provisions of the housing allowance so that the impact would not occur. At the same time, we increased the allowance in the housing supplement by the same amount as the guarantee pension was increased. I cannot read this from the Swedish Democrats' budget motion or the RUT report to which reference is made and which the Swedish Democrats have done. Then the effect is that the Swedish Democrats give with one hand and bring the other.
i-925becd649952333-1551	Madam President, I would like That's how you can interpret it. We can certainly move forward with further efforts. The point is, however, that we are not making proposals to reduce and reduce it for the country's pensioners, but rather the other way round. What is also remarkable is that the government has been in charge and that the Social Democrats have been running the country for so many years, and we see such a large proportion of poor pensioners. There are so many women living on the poverty line through guarantee pension or very low pensions. That is not something in which we from the Swedish Democrats are in any case indebted. I think we should be a little more humble on this issue.
i-925becd649952333-1554	Madam President, I would like The Corona crisis is getting worse right now. A lot of people get sick. Many mourn their beloved friends and relatives. It's almost Christmas, and the grief always feels a little extra heavy at the obvious family celebrations. The fact that our elderly who need to be isolated from the vicinity now need the proximity more than ever is something that we need to think about all of them a little extra right now. In the wake of the pandemic, companies are falling apart. Concerns and economic stress are evident as it takes too long for business support to be put in place. In addition to the pandemic, Sweden has a high level of unemployment and serious crime to deal with. Therefore, in the Moderates' budget, we focus on breaking unemployment and fighting crime. At the same time, it contains a crisis buffer that can be used to strengthen health care and to push back unemployment as the spread of infection is now increasing again. We are re-establishing the work line by tightening up benefit systems, introducing premium ceilings, ensuring that new arrivals qualify for welfare and switching inefficient tax deductions towards wider tax cuts on labour and investment. Because everything is connected. Madam President, I would like Family economic policy tends to end up in a debate on gender equality, where it is thought that it is the design of the system, parental insurance, that builds equality in our country. On the contrary, parental insurance contains lock-in effects that prevent lifelong equality. Anyone who can use the insurance to stay at home for as long as possible with his child and loses so much in his total income that he will find it difficult to make it on his pension. This effect is usually referred to as the female trap because it is mainly women who are on parental leave and slip behind in life's income. Changes in insurance design are needed to better reflect modern parenthood. With the knowledge of this women's trap and in the midst of a burning pandemic where companies are struggling to keep their businesses and where the re-starting of Sweden will require more hours worked, the government suddenly chose to prioritise family week. It is a reform that takes perfectly healthy and able-bodied people out of work for an extra holiday week at the expense of – something else. I understand that the government tried to sneak out the referral on 4 November, in the shadow of the presidential elections in the United States. Madam President, I would like Real equality comes from within the individual. Genuine equality is the freedom to have your own economy and to be able to make your own decisions over your own everyday life. It's when women and men naturally own just as much. Genuine equality is when no man, no woman, no religion and no tradition forces anyone else to reduce their rights or to increase their duties. No one should be forced away from their opportunities either. Madam President, I would like Real equality is when everyone has the same obligations, the same rights and the same opportunities. Since a majority of Parliament in this House has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that we wish to see, Madam President, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 12. However, for those who are curious about the Moderates' budget, I can tell you that, among other things, we are abolishing the survivor's allowance for unaccompanied children and young people because they are already supported by society through placements in HVB homes, assisted housing and family homes. In the Moderates' budget as a whole, welfare and security are strengthened. It also includes a tax freeze so as not to threaten economic recovery. The tax gap that exists between wage earners and pensioners because the government is introducing it, we are taking Moderates and Christian Democrats away. In the future, we must overcome the authorities' difficulties in combating, contesting and prosecuting the widespread cheating of subsidies which, in many cases, pay for the livelihood of criminals at the expense of the security of ordinary people. We need to make the rules of our social security system more flexible to suit even parents who are entrepreneurs. With that, Madam President, I would like to wish the Madam President with his colleagues and everyone in the committee, the Members and the Office, a really good and caring Christmas.
i-925becd649952333-1572	Madam President, I would like Now I'm going to debate my favorite area – family economic policy. Since the framework is set and we in the Swedish Democrats want to go beyond the framework, this budget report highlights our financial efforts in the area of family policy in a separate opinion. We invest SEK 3 billion more than the government in financial security for families and children. The Swedish Democrats have a vision of a childhood guarantee, which means that society should guarantee a safe upbringing for children where the best interests of the child are always placed in focus. The Children's Rights Guarantee covers a wide range of policy areas but applies not least to our committee, which deals with family economic policy. I would say that Sweden generally has a generous economic family policy and a basically good parental insurance policy. Having said that, you can't sit back and think it's perfect. In an interpellation debate with Minister Shekarabi, he said that family policy is good and that nobody demands anything else. In other words, there was no more discussion. I can understand the attitude of the government and the government – they have a lot of other things to stand in – but from my perspective there is a lot to change and improve in family policy. Madam President, I would like We talk a lot about shared parental responsibility, which is the absolute best thing for everyone's well-being. I would venture to say that, in general, parents have good cooperation where they are best helped. Should this not be the case, further efforts may need to be made in other areas beyond ours. The Swedish Democrats have also put forward a series of proposals in this budget that would promote both participation and equal opportunities for parents. For the sake of simplicity, we can start early, even during pregnancy. Here we want to state that both mothers and fathers are legally entitled to leave with compensation for visits to maternity care from the moment the pregnancy is confirmed. Today, compensation is only due for the last 60 days. It is certainly not a problem for a lot of parents to take time off if the employer grants it, but for some it can cause problems. This applies not least to men. As with so many other things, it is a matter of will orientation and that politics is serious with equal opportunities. That is why we believe that this should be laid down by law. We also believe that all pregnant women should be entitled to ten days' pregnancy allowance, which gives room for strength and peace before giving birth. This is also a proposal to promote women's health. Another suggestion, which is new for this year, is that we want to see an increased number of dad days, as they are a little carelessly called. It is simply the ten days that the other parent receives and is usually taken out directly at birth. In the law, we call them temporary parental allowance for the birth or adoption of children. With our proposal, parents can be at home for another week, and our ambition in the long term is to extend it by one more week so that the family has a first collective month together. We can see that this bet can have several effects. The family gets a longer start together, and by having another adult at home and helping to bring together everyday life and all its new routines, everything falls into place. We believe that this is a great profit. Moreover, if you have additional small children at home, it is also a great responsibility to take care of the whole family with a newborn baby. But most important of all, both parents early tie in with the new family member. This is extremely important. The initiative will therefore also be an equal opportunities initiative on our part. Madam President, I would like To this we also want to increase the number of double days from 30 to 60; it is therefore the days that can be taken at the same time. This means that if complications occur or there is a need for extra hands at home, we open up further choice for parents. According to a report from the Social Security Inspection, today relatively few families use double days. This may be partly because you do not really know that the possibility exists, and partly because the days are spent twice as fast. But for those parents who use them and who have a need, it is extremely important that the choice exists. The fact that we choose not to go forward with all the days being taken out as double days is precisely because the days are consumed twice as fast and at the same time we want the child to be able to stay home for as long as possible. So we have a lot of suggestions that really include both parents in parenthood, but on a totally voluntary basis. We also need – we have been into it before – to get away from political moves about women's traps. It is a favor to be able to be at home during the early childhood years and to be involved in the first advances. It is also a favor to feel the love that bursts out of your baby's eyes and to have all this time together. This is important. The years run quickly and never come back. We must encourage spending time with children when they are small and ensure that wage developments and career paths are not dashed without combining. This is the role of politics. We must stop depreciating the most natural part of human life: to be able to start a family and feel good about it. However, the fact remains that the parent who takes the most parental leave loses money, not least in monthly income. However, pension rights for children largely compensate the pension for the loss of being at home. The problem is mainly linked to part-time work in connection with family leave, and here we look at solutions to make it possible for part-time work to be reduced when it is necessary to reconcile family life, without this resulting in a worse pension in the long term. Statistics show that the current reserved parental months have made progress in the form of more evenly distributed parental days but also that mothers have an increased take-out of unpaid leave. So it goes directly against the intention you have. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats obviously agree that working life is important and plays a major role in the adult's social network and well-being. We should be able to reconcile work and family life without having too much impact. The debate may also add that the employment rate of women with children is particularly high in Sweden compared to other countries. Women in Sweden are thus internationally extremely diligent when it comes to working and being parents at the same time. In parallel, we also see an alarmingly high level of mental illness among women, not least women with children, which could be an effect of this. In fact, I think we need to take a holistic approach here. Unfortunately, I do not believe that a good quality of life, early childhood and professional career for women are being promoted by the government's policies with more quotad parental months and more hassle in the regulatory framework. I think we need to back up the band a little and upgrade the parenting and all that it brings, for both moms and dads.
i-925becd649952333-1596	Madam President, I would like In the past, politics solved social problems. Today, unfortunately, politics is creating problems instead. Children become poor because their parents have been made poor by politicians in this room – not by themselves, not because of their shortcomings and not because their parents have broken, but because society is not acting to ensure that the conditions are fair. In Sweden, the economic elite and child poverty are growing side by side. The differences between people are increasing fastest here in the welfare country of Sweden. Instead of financially pressured families with children, rich millionaires will receive a Christmas grant. The cheap Ebenezer Scrooge is no longer just a character in one of Charles Dickens's fictional Christmas stories, but a part of the reality that many families find themselves in now before Christmas holidays. The thought of how the money should be enough for both Christmas gifts for the children and food on the Christmas table creates stress and anxiety. Some children come back from Christmas holidays and talk about new video games and other toys. Others try to keep a low profile and carry the poverty of their family as a disgrace. In the same city live children who go on luxurious mountain holidays and those who do not go further than in the rent building's playground. Madam President, I would like My childhood in Sandviken was hardly perfect, but it had more of it together than today's division and marketing school. In the same school, I, the shop worker's daughter, and Sandvik Director's son went. In the same row we sat, in the same school – with completely different conditions, of course, but still together. However, I do not want to give the most to those who already have the most. I can honestly say to you with the biggest fortunes: now you actually have to stand back – now it's ordinary people's turn! This is what Stefan Löfven said in his Almedalstal 2018. And we can all guess what happened next. Madam President, I would like What should really cause a severe storm, instead, we are silent to death. What if the same energy were to be spent on talking about, for example, the right to sickness benefit that the Social Security Committee places on talking about tougher migration policies? That would be something! Then maybe more families would have a Merry Christmas. This is not worthy. Poverty can befall us all. I don't know what's going to happen. I don't know what's going to happen. Anyone who falls ill or loses his job today cannot trust the safety net that exists. After the Alliance's reorganisation of the social security system in 2009, a record number of children grew up in families without money. It's common people like you and me – former teachers, carpenters and utility workers, people who hurt themselves at work or had the bad luck of having a chronic illness – who are now destitute. This affects them enormously, and it affects their families indescribably. Not being able to give your child a hearty Christmas present — try to put yourself in that feeling. Excuse the language, Madam President, but it feels like shit. Madam President, I would like The draft tax removed by the government and the January parties costs more than EUR 6 billion each year in the budget. And, Madam President, it seems that the Liberals do not know that they themselves are part of the budget cooperation. I am therefore telling Mr Eliasson here that he can contact Mats Persson if he wants the pensioners to receive more money. Perhaps Mats Persson can pursue it as a proposal from me instead of what he has heard, to remove the defence tax for those who earn over 61,000 a month. That was the heart of the Liberals in the budget negotiations. It is perhaps a pity that it is not Bengt Eliasson who is in the Finance Committee. Madam President, I would like Imagine what we could have done to give children better conditions instead of giving Volvo's CEO 2 1⁄2 million extra annually through the Liberals' heart issue. What a waste! It's so preposterous that I can barely talk about it. It almost seems that the Youth League of the Centers has negotiated with the Social Democrats. You know, those who recently in Expressen said that they welcomed the fall of the welfare state and felt that each of us would save up for our own health care. I wonder if young people think that health care costs like the patient fee, that is 200 SEK. Do they know that a C-section can cost up to 71,000? We do not know that today. Madam President, I would like Reality looks like it does. There's gonna be bigger differences. More people live with a tight economy. The proportion of families with children who are in very poor economic condition has doubled since the early 2000s. If we were to avoid the family policy efforts that have been made before, we would be talking about a quarter of Swedish families with children. A quarter! Instead, Sweden has made sure to top the league in the number of millionaires. And more gets in that way. A family gets the whole house cleaned up for Christmas, and it's paid for by us taxpayers. The maid herself can barely afford a Christmas present for her daughter. This is how Sweden looks in 2020. This is how political power is used. What kind of nonsense is that? Yes, I'll tell you. It is the draft budget of the government and the other January parties – the Centre Party and Liberals. We must change this. From the late 1990s, the redistributive effect of all social security schemes to families with children has almost halved. Single women with children are the toughest. Single mothers are a social problem again in 2020 because of the poverty of politics. It's nothing but that. Let us be clear about this. Madam President, I would like Instead, the Left Party is investing in the families. Working conditions must be improved and wages increased. Everyone should be entitled to full-time, and parental insurance should provide security and compensation when you have a child. We need to increase the levels of compensation in our social security systems. You shouldn't have to get poor because you lose your job or get sick. All the sick shall receive the compensation to which they are entitled. More jobs and good childcare allow parents to work while the children are doing well at preschool. In this year's budget, we invest in sickness benefit and sickness benefit and increased pensions. Our proposal also means that more people are entitled to housing allowance than they are today. That would make a difference in the wallet for those with the lowest income. Madam President, I would like For me, it is incomprehensible that the welfare of families does not precede the large subsidies that will now be put on the country's high income. It's pitiful. With this, I refer to our specific opinion.
i-925becd649952333-1615	I would just like to draw the attention of all Members to the fact that the hour is late and ask you to respect your speaking time. The end time of the House is 23.00, and we'd rather hold it.
i-925becd649952333-1616	Madam President, I would like With the child's best interests in mind, we want to give each family the best opportunities to put their unique life puzzle. If someone asked me to explain and sum up the Christian Democrats' family policy, that would be with that very sentence. The fact that family policy is very close to our hearts probably knows everyone, and the explanation is our conviction that the family is the most important community and building block of society. How we think is detailed in a party movement. We have a special opinion, but we will refrain from taking part as the Christian Democrats' proposal for a framework has already fallen. There are many things that are sad about these pandemic times. But one thing we have learned during the Corona era is that we humans have an irrefutable need for community and relations, and the most basic community is the family. Here people meet across generational boundaries, and here love and trust are given. Families are different. They look different. The nuclear family is absolutely still in existence but is complemented by cohabiting couples, single, same-sex couples, reconstituted relationships and a number of other family formations. The fact that the family has always been and is unique is true but perhaps even more so today than before. Madam President, I would like It is precisely the realization of the unique family with its own unique puzzle of life that must be constantly laid and changed that makes system perspectives particularly inappropriate in family policy. Put the child, put the human being at the centre, and we all realise that a great deal of flexibility and choice is needed to support the families in the situation they find themselves in. In our motion we Christian Democrats show what policies can look like to facilitate family formation, increase parents' ability to spend time with their children, strengthen the economy and provide better conditions for combining family life with both work and career. Are these matters important? Crucial, is my short and straight answer. It is my absolute conviction that if a society is to function and grow strong, it must have safe and well-functioning families as a base. This can only be done if you have the best interests of the child in mind. That is why I am a little sad and upset when I repeatedly see the children standing back when we finally discuss family policy. Usually it is socio-economic calculations or lack of equality between parents that becomes the important thing. That's not good enough. The Christian Democrats welcome greater equality between men and women. For example, in the debate on pensions that we just had, I told you about some of our proposals for more equal pensions. My point then and now is that parental insurance exists for the sake of the children. Parental insurance should give our young children as much time and care as possible with and by the parents. As a father to three now grown sons, I can say that every second I've spent with my boys has been well invested. What is said is true: A childhood never replays. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats contribute a great deal in the area of family policy. One of our most important contributions is that we want to see a completely free parental insurance policy. Remove the quota now! We want to see greater flexibility so that guardians have the opportunity to hand over their parental allowance days to someone close to them. It doesn't have to be someone in the same household, but it can be grandparents or an adult sibling. All of this is aimed at one thing and that is to enable families to make life puzzles work, not least for single parents. Those who understand that each family is unique also understand that the wishes, needs, priorities and conditions are different. Then quotas will not work. Quotation goes far beyond the point of parental insurance. If, for example, the father is self-employed, the consequence is that the child does not have as many days at home as other children. Yes, unless we take the option of letting the self-employed company go bankrupt as a consequence. For the self-employed, it does not matter at all how much he wants to be at home with his son or daughter. You have to leave your child for childcare sooner than you want because the quota exists. We Christian Democrats welcome the fact that children's parents share parental leave equally as far as possible. Shared parental responsibility is something to strive for. But if we have the best interests of the children in mind, the consequence is that quotas are rejected. Of course, those who know best what is good for their child are their parents. There are not politicians in Rosenbad or here on Helgeandsholmen. A good family policy focuses on providing parents with the greatest possible support to solve the incredibly important task and role they have now that a small life has begun to sprout.
i-925becd649952333-1632	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. There are several objectives for family economic policy. On the one hand, it will contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children and, on the other hand, it will reduce the economic differences between households with and without children. A goal is also equality of parenthood. These are major goals for a large area of life. It is often said that the state should not interfere with what one chooses to do in the family. The government has nothing to do with my personal choices. It is also said that politics has nothing to do with sport. And all these things are right. But, quite apart from that, all governments always have responsibility for how they choose to manage the common resources that we bring in via the tax. This is also the way that is usually the basis for every election movement every four years, which is developed by committed party members with a strong interest in society and which is the basis for the fact that there are also different parties. For it is clear that politics has nothing to do with sport – until the ice-sladan needs to be renovated and the municipality should spend money. Nor should the government interfere in what personal choices I make as long as they do not restrict the freedoms and rights of others – roughly. When it comes to the question of how I choose to do in my family, the state has absolutely nothing to say about, that is, as long as what I choose to do is not criminal according to exactly what we as a nation are supposed to be. So then we'll get to this how. How do we use our common resources? I mean, Madam President, that we should be responsible and not spend money on things we know are not conducive to our goals. If an objective is an equal parenthood, it cannot be reasonable to finance an unequal parenthood. That's why parental insurance is so incredibly important and something we in Sweden can be really proud of that we have. We not only have the right to be free when we get an extended family, we also get financial compensation in the meantime! We can be proud, but not satisfied. Madam President, I would like Let me say something briefly about family week because it was raised in the debate. To talk about this, how I don't think there were many in the 2018 election campaign who missed that one of the Social Democrats' election promises was just family week. It can be seen as a waste in pandemic times, but waste is also known as various insurance policies, such as unemployment benefit or sickness benefit. That comparison limps a little bit because the family week is not meant to be an insurance – on the other hand, it is an opportunity for families to cope with what we today popularly call the life puzzle. How do you fix the fact that preschool is closed to education? Family week will not solve everything, but few individual reforms do. Madam President, I would like For obvious reasons – it's not just the pandemic ice cream! – I can explain the expectations that often exist when you are going into a family formation. Together with the one chosen to live with, waiting and raising a whole new person is powerful. It's big and scary. In short, it's exciting. Sometimes things don't go as planned, and sometimes you don't live as long as you thought with your love. Life happens and things change. In this situation, the objective of ensuring that all families with children have a good economic standard of living comes into play. The budget proposal for 2021 highlights maintenance support as part of this. Next year there will be an increase of between SEK 100 and SEK 150 per month per child. This is something that has been both requested and longed for. Madam President, I would like The state should not interfere in what individual families do for life choices in different situations, with some exceptions that I mentioned earlier. However, it is reasonable to assume that the state will be there when you do not manage yourself. You should contribute according to your ability to also be able to get help as needed. This social contract is a little shaky from time to time, but the foundation is there, and it's strong. I think we should be proud, but certainly not satisfied.
i-925becd649952333-1645	Madam President, I would like The night's getting late, and by 2020, it's almost over. It is a year that has affected many people in different ways. People have suffered illness or death. People have had increased sick leave, increased vab withdrawals, suffered from layoffs or had to leave their jobs. This year will also affect 2021, and I very much hope that it will be a different year from 2020 and that we can return to some kind of everyday life. Let us avoid the high sickness absences, the vabs and layoffs. The objective of family economic policy, which other speakers have also mentioned, is a good economic standard for families and to level out differences between households with and without children. But it is also a question of equal parenthood. It is just as Hans Eklind said earlier, namely that we should put the child at the centre. That is exactly what it is about, and that is why there is parental leave; the child needs his or her parents. The Center Party wants to have increased flexibility and the opportunity to make kitchen table decisions. From this point of view, I agree with my colleague from the Christian Democrats, although we do not agree on all the ways there. We need to do more. We need more information about what the choices I make in my child's early life means for my life's income. But it is also about the need to decide on joint custody, because it is a symbol. Now that issue is not being dealt with in this committee, but it is at least as important to show that both parents are equally important to children. I think we also need to work with carrots. We need to come back with a gender equality bonus and a vab bonus in order to achieve a more equal distribution. But no matter how much we do in the systems, we also need to work with our standards and values. What are we choosing? What about parents who choose to take parental leave in a different way from tradition? I believe that this is not just about economics, but also about how we as individuals discuss and act and look at a different path. I look forward to the day when it is absolutely obvious that the mother is home for three months. Then the father is home for seven months, and then the mother may return. On that day, we have begun to achieve equality of parenthood. But it's not enough just to change the systems, it's about working with our values. There is another part that I think is important and that we also need to include in the discussion, and that is that we should facilitate parenthood. We'll make it easier to work and make the puzzle go together. For there is a reform. It is not always so popular in all circles, but the grid reform actually gives parents the opportunity to work while caring for their home. It also gives other people a white income. It's an important job for those people. Madam President, I would like It also turns out that women have gained a higher income from the introduction of these kinds of reforms, so they are important. Madam President, I would like I can't help talking about the housing allowance when I'm talking about family finances. There we now need to make a monthly reconciliation. It is part of the whole thing in order for parents and families to dare to apply for housing allowance when income changes, as they have made such a year. If you go from work to perhaps getting a lower income, you must be able to apply for housing allowance without the risk of falling into debt. It is an important thing that the government needs to tackle and actually implement. But, as I said, no subsidies can compensate for the fact that we are working. There is another issue that is close to my heart and that partly concerns the housing allowance, and it is that of parents who choose to live apart. There are far too many disputes about children. It affects the children, who should be at the centre. Therefore, it is important to review the housing allowance and the regulatory systems so that, even after separation, parents can continue to live well with their children. I am not going to prolong the debate any more, but I would like to wish everyone in this House and all colleagues and the President with their colleagues a really happy Christmas and a happy New Year. I support the committee's proposal.
i-925becd649952333-1659	Madam President, I would like Next, the clock is almost 11:30. It is exciting to debate important things even at this time. This shows how important Sweden's parliamentary debates are in fact. Madam President, I would like Since Ida Gabrielsson so well reminded me that we have a January cooperation, I would first of all like to support the proposal contained in the report, that is what has been done. Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most generous parental insurance policies. We Liberals are very proud of this, for we have been involved in pushing this forward since the early 1910s. But today's system also helps to maintain unequal patterns. There is therefore a need to introduce a new model that increases freedom of choice and equality in parental insurance. A modern and good family policy enables parents to combine work with parenting and for children to have access to both their parents. In order for us to have equal parenthood, a more equal take-out of parental insurance is also crucial. The statistics clearly show that when the children arrive, the women begin to lose their pay while the sickness rate rises. In the end, in the pension system that we debated a moment ago, this has enormous consequences for women's wages. They earn an average of 3.6 million less than men in life. Although this figure is falling very slowly, it is still there. And since the main responsibility for children falls on women, it is more common for women to work part-time to a large extent, which means that half of all women are at risk of becoming so-called poor pensioners with very low pensions. Madam President, I would like However, it is not just about women. It is also about the right of men to their parenthood. In 2020, we still have standards and expectations that often govern how leave is shared between parents. According to studies, men who want to take out a larger share and be more with their children often feel that they are being resisted, and the expectations of being back at work quickly are strong drivers. We should not talk about what it is like for self-employed people, who have a lot of pressure on themselves and feel that they cannot actually stop working for their company. The consequences of this are not infrequently that career and wage developments are drastically deteriorating for men who behave as women are expected to do. It doesn't make sense, in no way. Children have the right to both of their parents. Madam President, I would like Single parents live in a particularly vulnerable situation. Children living in child poverty often live with a parent, who too often do not receive the maintenance allowance they are entitled to in order to support the family. Women are usually left to support and care for their children after separation, but there are also many men who are incredibly vulnerable in this situation. We must not forget that. Their situation, both men and women, needs special attention. Economic inequality reduces the freedom and independence of women and men. It is important that we have a family policy that focuses on this and at the same time puts the child at the centre. Madam President, I would like Families can look in many different ways, and all parents should have the opportunity to combine work and parenthood. We Liberals want a modern, free choice-oriented family policy that increases equality and encourages work. Equal parenting is good for children, good for the family, good for society and good for the individual. Here, parental insurance and the economic conditions, which we are now debating, play a central role. In this late hour, I would like to wish the Presidium for President, the Chamber, the Members of this House and, above all, the friends of the committee a really happy Christmas and a happy new year. Take care of yourself in the pandemic!
i-925becd649952333-1670	Madam President, I would like I look at the clock and see that we have a very long time. The policy on children and families with children can be found in a variety of policy areas. It is about health care and care, about preschool and school, about culture, about urban planning and housing policy. But in common, investments in future generations are probably the best investments we can make. A good school and a safe upbringing in safe growing-up environments are prerequisites for safe life. Parents' income should never be crucial to their children's opportunities. Society has responsibility for children. That is why we are investing in all these areas, and that is why the area of expenditure in the state budget that we are now discussing, the economic security of families and children, is so important. Child benefit is a key element. It was created over 70 years ago, at a different time but with some of the same challenges that we have today: strengthening the financial situation of families with children and reducing child poverty, but also closing gaps. The general child benefit has contributed to gender equality and is a mark of society's responsibility to protect children and their upbringing. Madam President, I would like We now have a number of quite difficult months behind us and perhaps as many – or even more, who knows – before us with a global pandemic that has caused disease and death but also turned the lives of many upside down. The Government, together with the Riksdag, has acted strongly in almost all policy areas. We were early in introducing a law to be able to close schools quickly and, linked to it, also a temporary parental allowance if the children need to be at home and a preventive temporary parental allowance to reduce the risk of children who have had a serious illness being infected. The pandemic has hit the economy widely. We have seen an increase in unemployment and, as usual, it is those who already have small margins from the past who are most affected. The government has made it easier for the most vulnerable families with children by raising the housing allowance. This has been done through a special supplementary allowance for families with children. I want to stop here and press on that measure. It has been accurate to strengthen the most vulnerable families with children. Now they've had a reinforcement for six months. These are often single parents, in the vast majority of cases single women with children. However, we need to continue to monitor developments. The budget for next year is another important initiative, which is permanent. We increase maintenance support by SEK 100 – 150 per month and children. It is also an accurate measure for single parents, mostly women, who will now be able to offer a better financial situation for their children. The Green Party has long denounced and worked to improve the situation of the most vulnerable families with children. In Environmental Party Sweden we should not have evictions of families with children. Child poverty should be eradicated. All children should have good conditions and get a good start in life. All children should feel seen and important. That's the goal. For this reason, the Green Party pushed for a long time that the UN Declaration on Children's Rights would become part of Swedish law, which it has been for almost a year now. It is a historic event and an important step forward for children's rights. New legislation and all those who make decisions concerning children must now always take into account the rights of children and the fact that they are being met. It is about the safety, participation and influence of children. The fact that we now have the Convention on the Rights of the Child in law is not an end in itself or an end in itself. We're not there, it's the implementation that becomes the important thing. This is the beginning of a long process. Madam President, I would like I will also say something about equality. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. But that does not mean, even in this area, that we are at any goal, that we can beat ourselves to the chest or even that we are satisfied. We've got a long way to go. Gender equality work needs to permeate society as a whole: civil society, school, working life, politics, family life. A key factor in moving forward at work and on the road to equal society lies in caring for children. Fathers must take as much responsibility during childhood as mothers, otherwise this will not work. Men must give up time to work or study to the same degree as women to take care of children if we are to get anywhere. And politics needs to lead the way. We have heard earlier here in the debate from the Christian Democrats that parental insurance must be based on children. We have heard from the Swedish Democrats that parental insurance is a favor for the parent. We have heard from the Moderates that genuine equality should come from within. Politics shouldn't interfere. But, Madam President, history has, in fact, shown something else. It is political reforms that have enabled Sweden to be one of the world's most equal countries. We have an investigation report on the table since 2017. The report has been referred to. The study proposes equal parenthood with a more equal take-up of parental leave. In concrete terms, it is proposed to divide the parent's days in three ways and, in general, to make an earlier withdrawal of the days. I have to say that it is painful that we cannot reach agreement, that we are so far apart on this issue that we cannot implement these proposals. In any case, the Green Party will continue to push for more days to be reserved. Madam President, I would like Parental insurance and the whole economic family policy rest on the idea of the Swedish welfare state, which has benefited Sweden for many decades. But today's family policy must face today's family constellations. I have mentioned equality. But it was also very gratifying news last week when Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen announced that the government has now appointed an investigation into a gender neutral parental code. The investigator will have a broad directive. Among other things, children should of course be entitled to their parents – to all their parents, even if they are more than two. This situation is far from unusual today if you look at it from the child's perspective, where a bonus father or a bonus mother can be at least as important to the child as the legal parents. But it is also a question of lifting parenthood and new adoption rules in some cases. For example, couples who have separated should also be able to adopt, either jointly or in cases where only one party is a legal parent but both may have a close connection to the child. It is also a question of getting more secure and simpler legislation in cases where parents are of the same sex. This is a long-awaited one. The investigator will return with a report by the summer of 2022. Madam President, I would like I see that I have exceeded the speaking time. I'm sorry about that. However, I think I have the opportunity to wish everyone a good evening and a pleasant night, in addition to calling for the committee's proposal in the report.
