i-1790125dbd27a278-3	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked the Prime Minister whether the government's migration policy is sustainable and what measures are taken to ensure that it is. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Already during the last parliamentary term, the government took a wide range of measures aimed at maintaining an orderly, humane, legally secure and sustainable migration policy. In order to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden after autumn 2015, a temporary strengthening of the Swedish regulatory framework was carried out within the framework of EU law and international conventions. Significantly fewer people are currently applying for asylum in Sweden compared to 2015. Sweden's share of the total number of asylum seekers in the EU has also decreased significantly. However, we still see an uneven distribution of asylum seekers among EU Member States. The government is therefore working to put an order in place in the EU to ensure a more even distribution. More Member States need to take greater responsibility for people on the run. The right to seek asylum shall also be safeguarded. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to achieve a more effective return. Among other things, more detention places have been set up, the Police Authority has been given more tools to enforce expulsion decisions and more funds have been allocated to the authorities' work on return. Overall, some 80 000 people have returned since 2014. Legislative changes that allow age assessments to be carried out earlier in the asylum process have been implemented. On 31 October last year, the government also decided to continue border control at internal borders for another six months. The most important thing for integration is the ability to make a living through your own work. The government has implemented the necessary reforms to reduce time to work. These are structurally fundamental reforms such as the residence law which is a tool for controlling the reception of new arrivals and a new regulatory framework for the establishment of new arrivals, which means clearer requirements for the individual. It is also about measures that involve better start-up efforts and strengthened pathways to jobs. A recent OECD study shows that Sweden succeeds better than many other countries in getting newly arrived women to work. The time for newcomers to enter the labour market is decreasing and points to a much shorter start-up period than before. Employment for both foreign and domestic births has increased sharply in recent years. The number of foreign born workers is over 1 million. This means that almost one in five people working in Sweden was born abroad. Much has already been done, and the reform work continues during this term of office. The law on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, the so-called temporary law, has been extended by two years, and a parliamentary committee has been appointed to take a position on the formulation of the future migration policy. The investigation will give the parties of the Riksdag the opportunity to contribute to a migration policy that has broad parliamentary support and that should be sustainable over time.
i-1790125dbd27a278-11	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On 9 October last year, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven told South Sweden that we need fewer asylum seekers and that we need a long-term sustainable migration policy. Barely six weeks later, in an interview in DN, the same Prime Minister said: In the barely six weeks, absolutely nothing, not a comma, had changed in Swedish migration legislation. We must therefore ask ourselves: what does the Prime Minister really mean? What is the government's policy? And who stands up for it? After Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's statement that Sweden needs fewer asylum seekers, it became a bit of a bad mood in the government because Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin and the Environmental Party did not agree. After a few days, the Prime Minister changed his hat and said that he had spoken as the party chairman of the Social Democrats and not as Prime Minister. Madam President, I would like This story seems to be repeating itself. Only a week ago, the Prime Minister said to DN: I think that is a very wise statement. If we are to have a real chance of achieving integration, we must have tight immigration for a long time to come. On the Social Democrats' Twitter account, they agreed. They tweeted about the article with Prime Minister Löfven. But the environmentalists got angry again. And six hours later, the Social Democrats changed their minds on the Twitter account. The old tweet was deleted, and instead they tweeted about the article in DN with party chairman Stefan Löfven. Madam President, I would like That really cannot be easy for voters to keep up with. At least I think it's almost impossible. You can tell all this. But it's a serious question. Sweden has for a long time had a very large immigration and very little integration. It's a dangerous combination. As we enter into the process of developing new legislation on migration, I think many people really want to know: what does the government really think about migration? Should Sweden accept fewer asylum seekers, or should we accept more? Is the Government's migration policy sustainable? If you do not think so, what measures are you prepared to take to ensure that it does? The Minister's response to me today is really very clear. The government's opinion seems to be that everything works fine. We do not agree with the Moderates. Around Sweden there has been a brutal exclusion that means that people get hurt. This leads to overcrowding, criminality and insufficient knowledge of children at school. We have a responsibility for that. In order to be able to take that responsibility, Sweden must have a very tight immigration for a very long time. We Moderates want to reduce asylum migration to Nordic levels. This means that we want to reduce it by 70%. It is our entrance to the M igrationsområdet, which is due to be completed this summer. What is the entry point of the Social Democrats? There's a lot of us who want to know.
i-1790125dbd27a278-22	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the Moderates speak of the lack of consistency, in view of what the Moderates themselves have been doing and representing for a long time. When we took office five years ago, we inherited the Moderates' migration policy. It was based on, if Maria Malmer Stenergard remembers it, the statement about opening our hearts. Then we had the EU's most generous asylum policy, and we had the world's most generous rules on labour immigration. We didn't have any rules or systems for medical age assessments. For they had failed under the Moderates, and nothing had been done about it. It was the policy of the Moderates, which the government inherited. It was obviously untenable. Then we said to the Social Democrats, "We will continue to receive and protect fleeing people." But it has to happen at a level that we can handle. This is why we had to tighten up strongly in 2015 and 2016. We introduced border controls, we introduced the temporary law and we pushed through ID checks. But when this House decided on the ID controls, the Moderates were not even able to vote for them. The party was so divided that it had to abstain. The Green Party was able to take responsibility and voted in favour of ID controls. The Moderates didn't. If we had not done so, our asylum system would have completely collapsed. If we are talking about levels, I can only say that since 2015, the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply. Overall, the number has fallen by 87 per cent. The number of unaccompanied asylum seekers young people has decreased by 97 per cent since 2015. Processing times at the Migration Agency continue to decrease. In 2018, they were 16 months old. For 2019 it will be around 9 months, and it will continue to decrease. Not only did the number of asylum seekers fall sharply in Sweden during the last parliamentary term and during the time when we have been responsible for it, but Sweden's share of the total number of asylum seekers in the EU has also fallen sharply. When the Moderates ruled Sweden, we received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Today that figure is 3%. This is to be compared with our share of the EU population being around 2%. So we are now about where we should lie – perhaps slightly over but significantly lower than the 12% of Moderates. What we said then about breathing space and that we have to distribute it more evenly has just become so. Now we are in a position where the Moderates have turned three or four times on almost all points that one can imagine. But I suppose it's strong when I'm accused of inconsistency here, even though we were the ones who took hold of the rules that the Moderates had pushed forward. We have made sure to tighten up in such a way that it is now possible to cope with the situation. The Moderates have been out warning that there will be many more, but we have not actually seen any of that. On the contrary, the assessments that exist indicate that it will remain at roughly the same levels. If we introduce a system with a list of safe countries, the number of asylum seekers will in all likelihood continue to fall further. While I have Maria Stenergard here in the speaker's chair, I would like to ask her a question. I saw in the media the other day that the Moderates no longer intend to stand by the 2015 migration agreement on quota refugees. We then agreed to take 5 000 quota refugees – the most vulnerable in the world – to Sweden. I would like to ask her whether the Moderates are sticking to the 2015 settlement or are they also betraying this agreement?
i-1790125dbd27a278-30	Madam President, I would like The reply of the Minister for Migration can be summarised in four points: Let us take this point by point. I think I can agree with the Minister for Migration's analysis. Firstly, in terms of volumes: It is well too well that we are not at 2015 levels now. But we are still high in numbers and in relation to other countries. Nor can we ignore the fact that we have had very high levels for a very long time. 13 per cent of Sweden's population was born outside Europe. A quarter has a foreign background. Secondly, the Minister claims that we have an effective return. Studies show that half of those who should leave the country do. That means half will be left. I wouldn't have been happy with that. The expulsions have failed. The police are alerting about a lack of detention places and are demanding twice as many to execute expulsions. However, the government is satisfied with the status quo. How are the police and migration services supposed to do their job? The third point was about integration. Unemployment among foreign-born people is high. It is quite exactly four times as high for foreign born as for domestic born. That after a fiery boom is somewhat lower is hardly a success story or something to be proud of. Over 30% of those born abroad lack upper secondary education, and we know that it takes them a very long time to get to work if they ever do. Point four was that it's all the Moderates' fault. I am the first to endorse the fact that Sweden has for decades had an ill-considered immigration and integration policy. We are many parties responsible for that. I think it's great that we rowed ashore in the 2015 agreement. In this context, it may be interesting to point out that there are still parts in it that the Social Democrats have not implemented. What separates us is that we in the Moderates have learned our lesson. We have changed our policies and we stand firm. We have entered the Migration Investigation and told you exactly what the entry values are. However, we still have no idea what the Social Democrats think. One day they think that the number of asylum seekers should be reduced and that we have an unsustainable immigration policy. The next day you think something completely different, after you have been barked by the Green Party. How are we and the voters to know what's going on? As I said, we have learned from our mistakes. The Minister for Migration refers to everything the Social Democrats did in 2015 together with the rest of us. It was necessary. But, Madam President, have they already forgotten everything? When you listen to the government as a whole, it seems that it is prepared to go back to the point where we were before. It was a twitchy policy of opening and closing, granting amnesties and allowing a high school team. That's totally untenable. We must now have a long-term and tight migration policy. Since 2017, the Moderates have extended their hand to the Social Democrats. We should both form the basis of a long-term policy that can stand above elections. I believe that there are very good conditions if the Social Democrats are pursuing the policy that they say they want to pursue, rather than running the Green Party's immigration policy, as they have done so far.
i-1790125dbd27a278-39	Madam President, I would like In reality, it was the Green Party that stood up and, in this House, was able to vote through austerity of migration policy so that we got down the unsustainable levels that we inherited from the old Moderate Government. This had the strength of the Green Party. The Moderates could not cope – quite the contrary. When we treated the ID controls, the Moderates pressed the yellow button and abstained. If they had got what they wanted, our asylum system would have collapsed in 2016. We had never been able to cope with the large number of people who could have come here from Germany. That's the story. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that she extends her hand and that she wants to agree with us on migration policy. There is now, of course, a discussion in the committee which, on behalf of the government, deals with migration issues. We'll see where it lands. We are happy to discuss with the Moderates as well. But I have to say that confidence in Moderates' ability to make any deals at all is not strong. It's becoming the Moderate sign that as soon as you make a deal, it won't take long before they run away from it. The December Agreement is an example number one. It was supposed to last eight years. The Moderates couldn't stand up for it even for eight months. The energy agreement would provide a solid basis for energy policy in the future and would also last for a long time. The Moderates couldn't stand it either. At the gang talks we had last summer, the Moderates broke up before the negotiations were concluded. Although we wanted to continue the negotiations, they did not want to agree and therefore prematurely cut them off. Now I can read in the media that they are also unable to stand up for the 2015 migration agreement with regard to quota refugees. But when the Swedish Democrats turn then the Moderates also turn. It's like the Light Tower and the trailer. When they turn, the Moderates automatically follow. I am happy to discuss this with the Moderates in the future, but I still have to ask myself what a deal with the Moderates is worth these days. It's like writing in water. What you sign one day can the next day be totally overplayed. They spin like a kitchen fan between different positions. This is a concern because we must be able to trust that parties entering into a settlement also hold it. If we are to agree on this, we must be sure that they can stand up for what they say. Then they won't be able to let up deals as they go. As far as the other parts are concerned, for example, volumes have fallen significantly as a result of the measures we have taken. Integration has improved considerably. When the Moderates ruled the country, it took an average of about eight years for a new arrival to enter the labour market. Today, the figure is about five years old. So integration today is almost twice as rapid with our policy as it was with theirs. Since we took office, over 80 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden. That's 1,000 a month. We can now also make repatriations to countries where we were unable to do so in the past. For example, thanks to the current government, there is now an agreement with Afghanistan. It is the same with Morocco and a number of other countries, where we can now carry out return operations in a way that we could not before. We will, of course, continue to reinforce those efforts, but do not come and say that we have not worked on those issues too!
i-1790125dbd27a278-46	Madam President, I would like I can't hear a kitchen fan, but I can really hear the sound of broken glass. It is thrown stone into its own glass house. Now that we are talking about keeping agreements, what happened to the inquiry into competence expulsions? Each week we read about people expelled from this country for minor errors on the part of the employer. It was promised that an investigation would be in place by the end of December 2019. There were many of us sitting there on New Year's Eve waiting to drink to those directives. But they never came, so don't talk about not keeping deals! This affects hard-working people that Swedish business needs. Once again, you and the Green Party cannot come to an agreement and allow it to lock up in the area of migration policy. I think that many who listen to the debate find this genuinely boring and genuinely distressed that the tone is as it is. The Social Democrats and the Moderates must be able to look back together and learn from our mistakes, but also to look forward and develop a common tight and sustainable migration policy that we can stand for. However, if we are to enter into such negotiations, we must know what the Social Democrats want. Together with Tobias Billström, who sits with me in the investigation, I presented exactly what input values the Moderates had before the investigation started. We are prepared to discuss anything in order to achieve a tight and sustainable policy. But we have no idea what the Social Democrats want, Madam President. If the Minister could use the last speech to explain it, I would be most grateful. I can inform those who are watching that I am not in a position to respond to the next speech by the Minister for Migration. He has the habit of sometimes making some accusations in his closing speech. Please keep that in mind!
i-1790125dbd27a278-51	Madam President, I would like If Maria Malmer Stenergard wants to use an example in which we fail to make a promise and mention competence demonstrations, that is a completely wrong example. She knows very well that we are sitting and signing exactly those directives. The reason why we have not been able to present them yet is that we have had to address, in addition to the skills assignments, another issue, namely all the cheating and falsification that is taking place in connection with labour migration and that has entered the Swedish labour market as a result of the Moderates' settlement policy of 2009. Everyone knows that labour migration is now being used in a very systematic way, among other things, by organised criminals to make money. We have to get to that. In addition to resolving the issue of competence deportation, we must also resolve the issues of fraud, fraud and organised crime in this context. We will ask an investigator to review the whole package, not just skills demonstrations. The question I asked was how we can trust the Moderates to really keep their word if we are to make a deal with the Moderates. Because they're leaving all the other deals. They left the December agreement and the energy deal. The gang talks they don't want to finish. They are now also leaving, as I said, the migration agreement and the deal for 5 000 quota refugees. Quota refugees are among the most vulnerable and vulnerable refugee groups. Even the Moderates can't stand up for them anymore, even though we agreed on just that in 2015. We are conducting our negotiations within the framework of the Committee. Maria Malmer Stenergard knows exactly what we stand for. We stand for a long-term sustainable and broadly-based migration policy. It cannot deviate significantly from other EU countries. We are pursuing this within the framework of the Committee. I look forward to seeing the Committee's report when it comes forward. I am convinced that it will land in a good way.
i-1790125dbd27a278-54	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me if I intend to work for the government to make proposals to establish a will register with the Tax Agency. The purpose of a will is to allow the ultimate will of a deceased person to be taken into account and to govern the distribution of his or her estate. It is important that the will be kept safe so that this will becomes evident and can be respected. A public will register is not the only or necessarily the best way to ensure this. A voluntary state register would not prevent the existence of falsified or lost wills. Furthermore, there are already private operators who provide the safekeeping of wills. D a government at the time decided in 2012 not to proceed with a proposal by the Tax Agency to establish a state will register. However, it is serious if it turns out that wills do not appear after death for various reasons. Work has therefore begun in the Government Office to reconsider the issue, and I intend to come back to it. In some respects, the wills have similarities with future powers. During the summer, the Government appointed an investigation to consider whether and how future powers can be established and managed electronically. The issue of a register for these authorisations is raised in this context. It is therefore appropriate to take account of this work with a view to adopting a position on the question of whether a State will register should be established.
i-1790125dbd27a278-58	Madam President, I would like When a person is taken away, it is a time of grief for relatives. And you'll have to grieve. We should be able to arrange the aftermath in a dignified way that gives time for grief. But not too rarely is the aftergame a time of strife and broken relationships with close people. More and more often, a will has been drawn up, which I personally consider to be very good and which in the vast majority of cases makes it possible to move forward without any hassle or discussion. A will is a person's last will. That is why it should be respected and protected in every way. Unfortunately, however, it is not uncommon for wills to disappear or for disputes to arise about the validity of wills. If this happens, there are no tools to prove the deceased's ultimate wish. This can lead to quarrels and divisions within the family and, in some cases, to the money that the closest ones have been entitled to instead end up with the General Heritage Fund. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that it is high time to establish a will register. We believe that the Swedish Tax Agency is best placed to manage one of these. The Agency is already responsible for the registration of deaths, the issuing of death certificates and public records. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency itself has expressed its support for managing a will register, which could have served as the register of all prenuptials. Today, many people choose to keep their wills in a safe deposit box, with a lawyer or with estate inventory companies. But it does not guarantee that the will will will actually arrive at the testator's death. The law firm may have closed, or the safety deposit box has not been opened in front of witnesses, if the bank has even accepted the will. The lack of a will register increases the risk that wills are falsified, destroyed or simply lost. Destroying a will is a criminal act, but the risk of being discovered is minimal. The fact that Sweden lacks a system to ensure a person's last will means a serious lack of legal certainty. This is an issue that has been discussed for a long time but has not reached its goal. Kammarkollegiet has had several Directors-General who have advocated a register, and the Christian Democrats have been pushing the issue for a long time. Social Democrats have also touched on the issue, but as a government there is still no answer as to how to resolve it. At the same time, it is a political issue in which we have lacked clear opponents. Nevertheless, I understand that we all agree that this is a problem that we have to resolve in one way or another. I think it is time we again tried to raise the issue of a will register in order to protect people's last will. The Minister says in his reply that a state register is not necessarily the best option. At the same time, however, the Minister actually sees the same problem as I do, as he explains in his reply. What, then, is the solution that the Minister sees as optimal? That would be very interesting to hear.
i-1790125dbd27a278-66	Madam President, I would like The first question you might ask yourself in the debate is that if the Christian Democrats think it is such an urgent and important question, why did you not do it when you had the chance? That's exactly what the story looks like. The Swedish Tax Agency made such a proposal in 2008, and then the Christian Democrats sat in the government. Then there was, and nothing happened to that proposal for four years until 2012. Then the then government flushed the proposal. It was the same government in which the Christian Democrats sat. The question is: why did you come to us ten years later and demand that we now implement what you were unable to do in 2012? I think Larry Söder should answer that question. There may be arguments for setting up such a register. But there are also a number of issues to be resolved. A central choice is whether it should be mandatory or whether it should be voluntary. That, in turn, bears the question: What will apply? If you choose the voluntary route, as I understand the Christian Democrats want to do, the question is: If there is a later will that is not registered, which should apply? Is it the will that is registered or what may have been written on the deathbed when you feel that you have only a few days left? What will then apply? What is really the last will in such a situation? Should it be mandatory, or should it be voluntary? If so, what will apply, what is registered or what is the very last? You have to ask yourself that question. Then there are a lot of practical questions. They concern who should keep a register, who should pay it, who should administer it and so on. Now I see there's an announcement. We, of course, will continue to work on this issue on the part of the government in the light of this. However, these issues should not be handled lightly or rushed forward. It is, as I said, the ultimate will of people, and it must be handled with great respect. We will continue to work on this issue. However, it is too early to present any timetable for progress.
i-1790125dbd27a278-73	Madam President, I would like With regard to the question of what will apply, that is the situation we have today. That is not an argument for not establishing a legate's register. I believe that an investigation into a legate's register may answer that question. I would personally like to see that what has been registered in the legation register is what applies. But there may be different reasons for choosing a different path. The Minister has understood correctly that we want it to be voluntary. We still think it is better to have a voluntary will register than no will register at all. I also stated in my first speech who we think could be responsible for this and who could be responsible for it, and that is the Swedish Tax Agency. It has other parts that make it possible. There are other elements that would have a synergy effect if there was also a will register there. Then I have to say that it is incredibly sad to hear in every interpellation debate what others have done and what others have not done. We have a government that has a responsibility. As Members of Parliament, we have the opportunity to put questions to the Minister according to his responsibilities. That is the responsibility of the Minister, and I think that you should respond to the discussion that you have yourself. Obviously, the Minister has been in the same situation for five years and has done nothing with regard to legate registers. Does the Minister not think that this is a matter at all, but rather an announcement is needed for the Minister to find a will register interesting to work with? I find it interesting to work on it. There are people out there who suffer every time such a situation arises. I cannot believe that it could not be a priority for the Minister to deal with. You always find it interesting to yell at the alliance government that has ever been. Somewhere I think that the Minister should also take responsibility and talk to a Member on the basis of the situation today. It's actually a little awkward every time. I have discussed this with the Minister several times in this House. Every time, it's just the same. Yeah, you can look at me if you want! But I get annoyed. The Minister must be able to respond properly to one Member on the basis of his responsibilities and not always dig back and find responsibility with someone else. It's the Minister's responsibility. I ask what the Minister thinks is the right way to deal with such a situation. There's no such thing as a will register. Does the minister think there should be a will register-- yes or no?
i-1790125dbd27a278-80	Madam President, I would like The reason I ask the question is that there must be an argument for why you dropped the whole idea in 2012. I believe that there is such an argument. That argument is that there are now private companies that keep the will register and that can be addressed in that section. I think it was simply under the alliance government that it was seen that if the state takes over the task, we will pull the carpet away from the very private companies that are currently on the market. Perhaps the Christian Democrats had to give in to the Moderates on this point, because the Moderates might have looked at the interests of the companies – what do I know? That's why I asked the question. There was a proposal from 2008. The then government decided in 2012, after having been on it for four years, that it should not go further. I think that was exactly the argument. That's what I was looking for. I'd be happy to ask the question again. Why didn't you complete the process when you had the chance? Is the argument that there are private operators who are in danger of going bankrupt? I take note of the announcement. We will continue to work on this issue. But we need to resolve the more fundamental objections. Now Larry Söder says he wants it to be voluntary. But it should still be the registered will that applies. In fact, this means that it may not be the last will. There may be a later will that is the last will. Maybe that's not a very wise way to go if you're going to set up such a register. We will continue to work on the matter in the department. We do so in the light of the announcement, but also the work that we are doing in terms of future powers and the investigation that is now working.
i-1790125dbd27a278-87	Madam President, I would like I read in the Minister's answer:, however, it is serious if it turns out that, for various reasons, wills do not appear after a death. I think that this is a sufficient argument for the will register to be investigated, made possible and see if there is a practical possibility that the Tax Agency can take care of it. Maybe that's what annoys me the most. The Minister has the same answer as I have, but the Minister does not want to talk about the solution the Minister has. We Christian Democrats have a solution. We think there should be a will register. There are several arguments for that. After I put the interpellation, I have received letters from quite a few letterwriters who have problems with this. There are many different parts that one could solve with a will register. We believe that the last will of a person should be fulfilled as far as possible. But the biggest benefit of this would be to avoid all the fighting and the situation that can become after a death when you do not know which will there is, if there is a will or how the property is to be distributed. The time of grief that is to be given to people is not a time of grief but a time of strife. Can we help in an easy way through a will register in that situation I think that much would be helpful for people. I hope that the Minister takes this issue seriously, takes it a little longer and tries to find a solution. We want the same thing. Then we can discuss who has done what or not anywhere else than in the speaker's chair.
i-1790125dbd27a278-93	Madam President, I would like The problem is, among other things, that there are already private solutions for the storage and handling of wills. If we are going to nationalise this sector and take over it, we are going to knock those companies out. You should be aware of that. That may have been why the alliance government chose not to go further on this issue. Now we are in a situation where we have an announcement and ongoing work on the future. I do not rule out that we will be able to resolve this issue too, but it must then be done in such a way that we also break the questions of principle as to what will actually apply. I think it is important not to create a system in which you end up in a situation where it is not the last will that will apply. Perhaps it is an old or older version of a will document that suddenly becomes what applies instead. As I said, we will continue to do the work. It is too early to report a timetable, but I can see in front of me that we will continue to work on this at the department.
i-1790125dbd27a278-96	Madam President, I would like Sara Gille has asked me when I intend to present a bill concerning children who are taken abroad for child marriage and when a law is to be introduced that forces relatives to tell us where their children are. Angelica Lundberg has asked me what I intend to do to prevent more children from being abducted abroad and being subjected to honour crimes, such as child marriage and genital mutilation. It is of the utmost importance that Sweden strengthens protection against honour-related violence and oppression. Children and young people in Sweden should feel safe and not have to worry about being subjected to honour crimes, including child marriage and genital mutilation. Against this background, the Government has taken several measures, including the establishment of the investigation to which Sara Gille refers, which concerns stronger protection against child marriage, forced marriage and crimes with honorary motives. In its final report, the investigation proposes introducing a special penalty for crimes with honorary motives, a special child marriage offence and a penalised exit ban for children who are at risk of child marriage or genital mutilation. The final report is prepared in the Government Office, and the Government's ambition is to decide on a bill in spring 2020. The government has taken about 40 additional initiatives that are relevant in the work to prevent and prevent children from being taken abroad and being subjected to honour crimes such as child marriage and genital mutilation. The Government Office has received increased resources for the work on family conflict issues with a special focus on child and forced marriages. The initiative aims at minors and adult persons removed from the country or detained abroad to be subjected to forced marriages, genital mutilation, so-called upbringing trips or other forms of threat, coercion or violence from the family. The aim of the initiative is to strengthen support for people who have been forced abroad against their will or by deception. The Government's initiative has meant an increased capacity for the foreign administration to handle these types of cases and has contributed to the development of skills of value also for domestic actors working preventively, especially the municipalities. In order to maintain the work in the long term, the Government's proposal has been permanent and incorporated into the ordinary activities of the Foreign Service as of 1 January 2020. The Police Authority has established a national competence network against honour-related crimes. During autumn 2019 and spring 2020, educational efforts are being carried out for all pre-study leaders within the Agency. The Police Authority is also working on developing new, updated methodological support for the work against honour-related crimes. The Swedish Prosecution Authority is also working to update the Agency's manual on honor related violence from 2006 and to develop a new, updated method support. Finally, in July 2019 the Government has commissioned a special investigator to analyse and consider, among other things, whether a special penalty should be introduced with his own criminal code that specifically targets honour-related violence and repression. The assignment shall be presented by 30 September 2020. The work against honour-related violence and repression is thus a high priority for the government. We can never accept children being subjected to crimes in the name of honor.
i-1790125dbd27a278-106	Madam President, I would like I find it remarkable that Minister Morgan Johansson claims that it is of the utmost importance that Sweden strengthens protection against honour-related violence and repression while not doing enough to actually prevent it. As early as March 2019, I submitted an interpellation on children taken abroad for marriage. In the interpellation debate, Minister Morgan Johansson replied that this is one of the government's top priorities. According to the Government, there would have been a sharp proposal for a new law in the autumn. But unfortunately, it hasn't happened. No such proposal has yet been put forward, and this was a year ago. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, great that the Government now claims that the Government has finally set up an investigation concerning stronger protection against child marriages, forced marriages and crimes with honorary motives. But why has it taken so long? If this is what the Government claims – that the Government is high-priority and believes it is important to work against honour-related violence and repression – should not the government work faster? Fadime was murdered 18 years ago. We should have gone much further on this issue. We're on the same track year after year. It is a great betrayal of the children who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. In my interpellation, I mention that Dagens Nyheter published an article on 11 December 2019 stating that the 146 missing children in school during the autumn term could have been taken abroad. In many cases there are concrete suspicions of honour crimes such as forced marriages and genital mutilation. Unfortunately, most municipalities do not have any concrete statistics on this, which means that there is no direct answer to the number of children involved. And, of course, the number of darkness is great. Madam President, I would like The government has the ability not to take responsibility, but rather to pass it on to the municipalities. I would like to ask the Government whether he intends to do anything to help the 146 children who have been taken abroad and, if so, how.
i-1790125dbd27a278-114	Madam President, I would like Summer holidays are a great time for most children. Already at the end of spring, the stomach starts to tingle a little, and the children look forward to the coming holiday after an intense school year. My oldest daughter has her very first real summer vacation this year, and I hope it will be lined with sun, bath, play and lots of wonderful moments out in nature, as I myself remember my summer holidays. However, this is not the way it looks for all children. While some get that lovely tingling in their stomachs, others have stomach problems and worry. According to the review made by Dagens Nyheter, at least 146 children were missing in the Swedish school after the summer vacation 2019. There are at least 146 children, in just one year, who are gone when the autumn term starts, and the school doesn't know where they are. Usually when a child disappears, the police are engaged, and a search effort is started to find out what has happened. But when it comes to children who have been taken abroad for honour crimes, they are allowed to disappear without even counting those who were officially missing. In some of these cases, there is concrete evidence that children have been taken abroad to be married away or genitally stymied, and in other cases we can guess that these are some kind of honour crimes. In any case, it is also a violation of the child's right to go to school and of the Swedish compulsory education. This number, 146 children, is seriously underestimated, as not even half of the country's municipalities have responded to DN's survey. Our largest municipalities, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, are municipalities where we know that honorary oppression occurs. They have not provided any information. There is thus a lack of a comprehensive picture of how big the problem is in Sweden. There is no national register, and many municipalities lack action plans and procedures for what to do when children are found to be taken abroad. According to the Ekot survey at the beginning of 2019, only 13 per cent of municipalities carried out statistics on abducted children. This means that 87% have no idea how many children have been abducted or whether they are coming back again at all. Nor can they catch those who come back and who have probably experienced incredible horrors. Children who are married to an older man and then subjected to systematic rapes or girls who get body parts cut off are deprived of their childhood and suffer injuries to life, both physical and psychological. I think the Minister agrees that this is one of the most serious crimes a person can be subjected to. Yet there are still cases in Sweden in 2020. When my daughter comes back to school this fall after her first summer vacation, hopefully rested, maybe a little tan and with one or two scratches on her knees, will all her classmates be there? Or how many chairs will gap empty in the Swedish school after next summer vacation?
i-1790125dbd27a278-121	Madam President, I would like I think we're all possessed by trying to put an end to this kind of crime as soon as possible. I would just like to point out that it is not the case that nothing has happened in the last 15 or 20 years against this particular type of crime, because it has. Perhaps the most important thing, however, is the ideological shift that has taken place in Sweden during the post-war period. Sweden is no longer drawn by the old conservative values that women are subordinate to men and that children are somehow the property of families. Now it is just the opposite: children are individuals of their own with their own rights, and society has a fundamental responsibility to ensure that these rights are upheld. That was not the case in old Sweden. This approach, which has also led to Sweden being one of the world's most equal countries today, is due to the fact that the Social Democrats and other parties have for many years been making sure that we have broken with the old, conservative approach to the family and the individual. When we then see that this kind of old-fashioned, sometimes medieval, customs and views on the family come back in our society and are reminded in some of our immigrant groups, we on our part must mark it hard against it. We shall ensure that we do not maintain that kind of approach and to prosecute the crimes committed. There we are, and there we will be, completely uncompromising. Now things have happened, too, in these years. For example, we have new laws against forced marriages and genital mutilation in place for a long time. Today, neither are children's marriages recognized. The exception that existed a few years ago has been removed. We are now working on proposals for further legislation against honour-related crimes. It is also, I would say, an important part of the January agreement signed by the Government with the Centre Party and the Liberals. Last week, I presented a bill to remove the limitation period for genital mutilation – just as an example. If you commit such an abominable – where you are absolutely right – crime, be aware that the law can reach you no matter how long. That is why we will remove the limitation period for genital mutilation. It also implies a retroactivity in the sense that this also applies to the crimes committed before the new law enters into force. That's the bill we're moving on to. We will also shortly be presenting new legislative proposals. These are exactly the ones we have talked about and had interpellation debates about in the past. They are based on the investigation that the former Justice Council and the current Chancellor of Justice Mari Heidenborg came up with a few years ago where she proposed further strengthening of the legislation. Among other things, it is an even stronger legislation against child marriage, aimed not least at the relatives involved in arranging this type of marriage. We will be able to prosecute them to a much greater extent than before. It is a question of punishing other crimes, such as assault and kidnapping, which are committed with honorary motives. These are also measures to prevent children from being taken abroad to be married away or genitally stymied. As I said, we are in the final stages of that preparation. We will be able to go to the Legislative Council with our proposals shortly and then make a proposal to the Riksdag.
i-1790125dbd27a278-129	Madam President, I would like Yes, Morgan Johansson, children should be individuals of their own. Unfortunately, this is not the case for everyone. Mr. Old President! I know that children's marriages are not allowed in Sweden, but at the same time children are taken out of the country and married away. Even if marriages are not recognised in Sweden, they may be legally binding in the country where they are concluded or according to the religious or traditional rules that a group follows. I also know that genital mutilation is not allowed in Sweden, but at the same time children are being taken out of the country for genital mutilation. There are also children who are sexually stymied here in Sweden – for example in a laundry room, which we have heard of. Mr. Old President! The Government says that the government will introduce one after the other, but at the same time it clearly sees how Sweden's so-called feminist government completely fails to help children and young people to avoid being subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. The Government stands here and says that he prioritises these issues, but that is what the Government said to me a year ago. There is a big difference between standing in the speaker's seat and claiming to give priority to certain issues and actually doing something about it. I don't buy the government's fine explanations until I see that something is actually happening in society. Instead, we see cases where children are subjected to honour-related violence and repression, and unfortunately few of the police reports of forced marriage actually lead to prosecution. The majority of the Riksdag wants it to be possible to issue a travel ban when a child is at risk of being married abroad. But this is what our so-called feminist government chose not to vote for. We must have zero tolerance for child marriage. Children must be allowed to be children and not anyone's possession, sex slave or such. Mr. Old President! The Government of Morgan Johnsson never wants retroactive laws, so if a law comes in a year or so, it will not help the children who have already been brought abroad. It was very quick to help the 9 000 Afghan men, but in the case of children and women the priorities do not seem to be as high. Is there anything that the government can do for the children who have actually already been taken abroad?
i-1790125dbd27a278-136	Mr. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. Making laws that make abuse such as child marriage and genital mutilation impossible has so far been incredibly difficult for the government, and I am concerned, Mr President-in-Office, that the government seems to be beating its chest over the changes it has made and is about to make. So far, none of the government's proposals have proved sufficient, so the hope that they will be so this time is unfortunately not so great. As recently as last year, a law was written about here in the Swedish parliament where descriptions that accepted child marriage remained, both in the Government proposal and in the proposal that was then put through – but which the Swedish Democrats of course opposed. And speaking of child marriage: After a number of changes and proposals, it is now finally forbidden to be married to a child in Sweden. Of course it's good. But if you are, nothing will happen. There is no punishment for the crime of depriving a child of all its childhood. I therefore welcome the fact that the study that Morgan Johansson here is talking about in her final report once again proposes that child marriage should be criminalised. I hope that the government will listen this time, not least in view of the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now a law. In the past, the government has repeatedly said no to making child marriage criminal, which puzzles me. Do you or do you not want to eradicate child marriage and honour oppression in Sweden? I also find it remarkable that the Minister is trying to reduce this debate to ideology. Conservative values, which the Minister is so keen to speak negatively about, do not mean that women should be subordinate to men. Not at all! Let me just say that. Let us also talk a little about the exit ban that the government has announced will come in the spring. Such a ban presupposes finding these children before the abduction takes place, and given that the municipalities today have no idea how many children have actually been abducted after it has happened, it seems that the application of this may be a little difficult. Furthermore, the investigation has suggested that the person who removes a child from the country or otherwise promotes the removal of a child abroad should be able to be punished with a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of one year. The Swedish democrats believe that the penalty should be higher, and we get support in this view of the referral bodies.
i-1790125dbd27a278-145	Mr. Old President! The answer to the last question is that Angelica Lundberg must wait until we present the legislation as a whole. Then she'll find out how we're going to go to jail. The fact that I am leaving today with regard to these legislative matters is that we are in the final stage of preparation and will be able to go to the Legislative Council shortly. We will then be able to submit a proposal to the Riksdag. The investigation is mainly about three things. One of them is child marriage, and the investigation has suggested that the props be turned down in order to prosecute more. Instead of showing illegal coercion for carrying out or arranging child marriages, it is sufficient to have moved someone to enter into such a marriage or that a loved one, such as a parent, has allowed it to happen. That is the meaning of the bill itself, which means that we are widening the criminalised area and will be able to prosecute far more than we are doing today. Then there is also a proposal in the investigation on the basis of penalty for crimes committed with honorary motives. There is also a proposal for an exit ban. It is not true, then, that the government is not working on proposals for an exit ban. We do so through the investigation that has come. I think it is important to be able to have better instruments to stop this when it happens. As I said, this legislation is therefore in the final stages of its preparation. But then we have to think about, I think, that it is not that nothing has happened. Laws on coercive marriage have been in existence for a long time. Laws on genital mutilation have been in place for a long time. The law that children's marriages are now not recognized has been passed by our government for a couple of years. Laws against the sexual exploitation of children have been in existence for a long time. Laws prohibiting the rape of children have been in existence for a long time – etcetera. There are many legal spaces that can be used when it comes to this type of abuse. When we are overall in this preparation, we will have additional instruments for the judicial system to use. In addition, we are also looking at the possibility of introducing a specific offence, that is, in the same way as we did with women's peace crimes 20 years ago. By introducing a special crime of women's peace, we were able to raise the scale of penalties overall on this type of violence, abuse and other abuse. We have a special investigator, the Prosecutor General Petra Lundh, who reviews how one could carry out something similar when it comes to honour crimes – i.e. a personal crime with its own scale of punishment. This could lead to more stringent and stricter legislation than we have now. It should also be remembered that it is not just about legislation. It is also a question of ensuring that once we have legislation, we also have police officers and prosecutors who can carry out the necessary investigations. The police are now hiring 350 new investigators whose task is to focus on crimes against children and crimes within the family, including the honour-related crimes. This is the biggest investment the Police Authority has ever made in this area. We work preventively and put nearly 300 million into a special programme 2018 – 2020 to prevent honor-related crimes. We have made sure that women's shelters and crime victims' shelters now have more money to move with than ever before, and we have also made sure, in relation to the children who have been taken out of Sweden, that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs now has special resources to be able to help in the consular matters that it will be about and can be much more active in trying to help bring the children back home if they have been taken abroad.
i-1790125dbd27a278-152	Mr. Old President! The government is not taking this as seriously as he actually says. These are beautiful words that Morgan says to us here, but we should have come much further than this. Fadime was murdered 18 years ago. A year ago I stood here and took this discussion with the Government, and I can see that the Swedish feminist government has not come so far since then. It should have been a lot faster. The Government claims that this is one of the government's top priorities, and according to the Government there would have been a sharp bill in the autumn, which I have not noticed yet. Mr. Old President! We have a so-called feminist government that claims to stand up for women's and children's rights. At the same time, we see the same government acting directly against women and children on many levels. As I said in my previous speech, I do not buy the fine explanations of the Government until I actually see in society that something is happening. There is a big difference between words and actions, and we want to see results for real.
i-1790125dbd27a278-155	Mr. Old President! The national team of experts against honour-related violence and repression is now planning a survey of abducted children. That's good, but what's gonna happen next? How will the government act when it turns out that this affects a lot of children in Sweden? Is it still juice and bun and some brochure from the National Board of Health and Welfare that is the government's tactic to remedy the crimes of honour, or will Morgan Johansson make sure that something is done about this huge problem in real life? And if the minister had a little bit of time – it is after all he who has the cards on hand and knows a little about what this bill will mean – does he think that when I read the government proposal I will think that there has finally come a good and comprehensive proposal with severe punishment for those who destroy the lives of small children? Will the bill this time mean that no more children will be taken away from Swedish schools and subjected to child marriage and genital mutilation or sent on parenting trips to other countries? Or does the Minister think that we will be standing here again in a year or so and debating the same thing one more time, because this time the government will not do enough again? It is time for the government to put pressure on the municipalities and take a holistic approach to this problem. Create a national register and write laws that are so intimidating that no one even dares to think of taking a child abroad and committing honor-related crimes! The barbarism that is going on with these children must end now.
i-1790125dbd27a278-158	Mr. Old President! I am a little disappointed by the last speeches. Don't stand and rumble over juice and buns, and don't use that kind of rhetoric when we talk about things like this! And don't think you can teach me about Fadime. Fadime was one of my party friends. She was active in SSU, and I think about her every time I think about these questions. Do not use the memory of her to try to create a picture that this government is not acting, because that is completely wrong. What we are going to do now means a much tougher piece of legislation. This means increased resources for the judiciary. It also means more resources for prevention. I say that there is probably no previous government that has done as much to crimes of honour as this government has done and intends to do during this term of office. As I said, we are about to finish the bill itself, and we will publish it in its details when we are done. But the message here today is that we will be able to present legislative proposals this spring, first as a legislative referral and then as a proposal.
i-1790125dbd27a278-160	Mr. Old President! Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me what the government intends to do to change the rules for the flow of information so that society lives up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child when placing children in family homes. Since 1 January 2020, the Convention on the Rights of the Child applies as a Swedish law. In support of the further transformation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to identify the compatibility of legislation and practices in different areas of law with the Convention. The report shall be presented by 15 November 2020. In the case of children and young people placed in family homes, the legislation in force imposes an obligation on the Social Welfare Board to obtain the necessary information to assess the suitability of the family home before the placement takes place. For example, it may be data from P olis Authority's suspicion and load register. However, it is important to note that such extracts only form part of the basis required by the Social Welfare Board. A child placed should always be better, not worse, and the Social Welfare Board has an overall responsibility to ensure security one and safety one for the children and young people placed. In April 2019, in the light of shortcomings highlighted by the Innspection for Health and Social Care, the Government commissioned the Authority to carry out in-depth analyses of social services' investigations. The analysis shall cover the entire process from the handling of the alarm notification, protection assessment, ex-ante assessment, investigation, documentation, decisions, follow-up and municipalities' self-monitoring. The assignment shall be presented by 22 February 2020.
i-QNRnd1rqSD579StwS9KzrD	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! The interpretation was written with the starting point in a well-known case in Vänersborg. Now I know that the Minister is not allowed to speak in individual cases, but an individual case can still be an example of a lack of a system and therefore form the basis for our discussion. The case in Vänersborg is therefore about a child placed in a family home where the man in the family was suspected of rape against children, for which he was later sentenced to three and a half years in prison. Vänersborg municipality claims that it has done what the Minister of Social Affairs says in the answer, that is to say that it has requested information from the police prior to placement, but nevertheless has not been informed that the man in question was suspected. This is what the head of family homes in Vänersborg Municipality says:"It is extremely serious when it comes to such serious crimes that we as social services do not find out about those tasks. This is what Karin Saini, head of family homes in Vänersborg municipality, says to the radio. Vänersborg municipality now wants the rules to be reviewed and that it will be investigated whether the municipalities should receive information earlier from the police about certain criminal suspicions. One wonders why Vänersborg municipality has not received information about criminal suspicions before. The Regulation on the register of suspicion, 1999:1135, also states that information should be disclosed if requested by a social welfare board. Of course, if it does not apply in any way to family homes, the law must be changed. Here we have a municipality that claims that you have done everything you can to ensure that children do not end up in a bad family home but that you have not received information from the police. In this particular case, there may of course be different explanations, but it would be good if we ensured that it never happens again. Lena Hallengren refers to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also applied in the past, although it is now a law. It is good that there is already work on analysing the social services' investigations. But this is nothing new. Unfortunately, there are many shortcomings in the placement of children, and there are also many who testify to the fact that children have had a really bad situation during the placements of social services. There is often information at other authorities, such as the police, the Swedish Enforcement Authority or any other municipality, but the social services do not get access to it. There are regular news reports that children are suffering ill, too often because authorities have not shared information. We hear about families with children under investigation who move to another municipality to escape an unfavorable investigation. We also hear of poor and inadequate family homes, which when condemned by one municipality can receive children from another municipality. In today's society, where we have access to technology and opportunities for lightning-fast communication, it should not be difficult to protect children. Instead of the system we have today, where municipalities have to ask for information, there should be national systems of registers of family homes that exist.
i-1790125dbd27a278-170	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mikael Eskilandersson, for the interpellation! I have to say, however, that the first intervention by the interpeller puzzles me, because there are so many different issues that are raised. On the next occasion, perhaps the interpeller could clarify whether it is a case of suspicion, of family homes in national registers or of private HVB homes and their transparency? There are many things you can think about and reflect on. As I said in my answer: When you place children so that they can no longer grow up and spend their everyday lives with their biological parents and siblings in their original home, you should ensure that they get better than they had before. Mikael Eskilandersson began by saying that the Government cannot respond to matters relating to an individual case, but then he devoted a large part of his time to describing an individual case, which I cannot comment on. But if I'm going to try to generalize, I can say this: Transparency and control through the load register is an opportunity when it comes to work with children and situations where children are in vulnerable positions. This also applies, of course, to family homes. But I think that Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, who was previously in the speaker's chair, could support the fact that it is quite a big thing to say that already this is that someone is suspected of something having consequences. Any one of us can end up in the suspicion register, and we can leave it just as quickly again if the suspicion proves groundless. As soon as charges are brought, you get information about this. There is no information kept secret from social services, for example. But a person may be in the suspicion register one day and the next week be away from there. Someone can be on the suspicion register completely unsubstantiated. It may also be that you end up in the suspicion register the week after the social services have had contact. It is therefore important to emphasise – this is not a rejection – that it is a question of making a much greater assessment on the part of the social services. The concrete example that Mikael Eskilandersson describes, of course, I have heard of. If you do all kinds of checks and home visits, I mean that you end up in a situation where there cannot be a single suspicion. In addition, this led to prosecution and conviction. I assume that there were consequences. It is clear that the fact that HVB homes are in principle private affects transparency, compared to whether they were public. But that is the reality. The review that we are doing is urgent. It's very extensive. It is about analysing what the whole process looks like from a notification of concern to a possible placement or not. What causes what? But, once again, Mikael Eskilandersson is happy to specify if he has any other question than that in the interpellation. It was about the flow of information and about living up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That information flow, I mean, works.
i-1790125dbd27a278-179	Mr. Old President! Yes, it may have been a lot, but it is precisely the flow of information that I am referring to. This is really about the flow of information between all the authorities. There is usually a confidentiality when dealing with children. But it should be borne in mind that this confidentiality is there to protect the child. It's not for the protection of perpetrators. Unfortunately, this confidentiality very often protects perpetrators. Municipalities do not want to share the information with other municipalities because there is a confidentiality. Then it must be clear that confidentiality should only be there to protect the children and not the perpetrators. Then I lifted this with registers of family homes, because I think it is necessary. That is something my party has been pushing for a long time. We launched it in the 2014 election campaign, among other things. Now the 2014 election movement came to be about everything other than vulnerable children, so this unfortunately did not have any major impact. But it was part of what we call a childhood guarantee, that is, a protection for children in society. I think that children today are not sufficiently protected in the care of social services. The problem is that social services sometimes have to go in and take care of children. Not all families are perfect, and you have to understand that. When caring for children, the goal must be to make things better – we agree on that. When there is information that, for example, a family home is poor or lacking in some way, that information should also be open to other municipalities, so that a family home is not condemned by one municipality and then hired by another municipality. We have seen a number of such cases. It is a matter for the government to arrange a platform for the exchange of information. It would have been possible to make a platform for exchanging information about, for example, family homes or vulnerable children. This could have been done from the 80s onwards. That's not a new question. But as I understand it, today there is no functioning register of family homes or any platform where authorities actually exchange information. This could have been resolved by a person being in a suspicion register for a little while and then disappearing or not being there when the social services ask but be added later. If the police discover that they have a suspect who is in a register of family homes, they can then inform the municipality about it. If the municipality is then about to place a child in that particular family home, perhaps the municipality should wait a few weeks to see how it continues. In this case, the person was suspected, and the municipality was not informed about it. As a result, the municipality placed a child in the family home. When there was talk of them, you moved the child, because then you found out. But it's a shortcoming that you didn't find out before. If you had it, the baby wouldn't have to be moved around. In addition, the child had escaped the risk of being placed in a family home where a person is a criminal.
i-1790125dbd27a278-186	Mr. Old President! Now it became exactly what I find very unfortunate: that someone who is suspected is seen as a criminal. It's not exactly the same thing. I am thinking not least of many of the situations where there are messy family relationships and many other things. To file a complaint of suspicion or simply to report someone to the police and thus make sure that that person is placed in a suspicion register is a very effective way of ensuring that a person gets a, so to speak, social judgment on himself even if prosecution is not instituted and there is of course no judgment either. I think this is very important. It doesn't have to be a sentence, but as soon as there is so much ground that the prosecutor thinks it should be prosecuted, it is public, or social services, for example, get access to this. It's very important. However, I think that we should be cautious about such a thing as suspicion being the same as a criminal. I want to turn against it. Of course you can find cases where the suspicion led to prosecution and conviction. However, it is not reasonable for suspicions that do not lead to further consequences. On the other hand, it is reasonable to have very serious consequences if a family home turns out to be inappropriate. I would also like to emphasise that it is very important that there are consequences, even if there are neither convictions, prosecutions nor even suspicions. There are many reasons why a family home could be inappropriate. I think family home records are an interesting idea. It's been around for a very long time. Mikael Eskilandersson says that this could have been done a long time ago. I can't answer why you haven't, but I can guess. HVB homes are on a larger scale. You're supposed to have permission to operate them. They are often over a little more time. Family homes can be over a shorter period of time. I see that it is much more difficult to get such a register up-to-date and up-to-date. But this is not something that either I or the government have anything against. The idea has existed. I cannot really answer the question about the reasons why this does not exist. Next time, Eskilandersson will have to ask that question in the interpellation, so that I am better prepared. I believe that all of us who work and work in different social policy contexts are often told that confidentiality is a problem. What confidentiality and which authorities? I sometimes think – I have to say – that there are government officials who actually blame a little on confidentiality. In another context, confidentiality is not a problem. You find solutions to make it work. You can gather around a child. It could be kids in gang crime. Then you need to gather many authorities to get to it. Then it is not a problem of confidentiality, but it is a question of exchanging information according to a system that works in the vast majority of places. But it's supposed to work everywhere. I'm the first to say that. It is nevertheless remarkable, I think, that we are blaming confidentiality rather than doing what perhaps the neighbouring municipality is doing to actually get past what is called a confidentiality problem. When it comes to HVB, a major review is underway– I really don't know if I said that in my answer. A major review of all HVB homes is being carried out, and there will be a re-report within a month. IVO is doing this. It will be very interesting, because it is clear that we are keen that it is good quality. It is a matter of ensuring that the children who have to be placed are placed in the very best way. This is certainly not a first-hand solution or a second-hand solution, but a last-hand solution for social services and municipalities. You try a lot of other things, but when you are forced to do a placement, it is clear that it should be done so that it gets better for the child. It is important that they have permission and that they know what quality looks like.
i-1790125dbd27a278-194	Mr. Old President! It is important that a suspect is not seen as a criminal, says Lena Hallengren. But I think it's more important that the child doesn't end up with an unfit person. After the suspicion is gone, the person can again accept children. So, in my opinion, it is not an abuse that is so great that it would be a problem: that a suspect who is not indicted and who is not convicted should not be allowed to receive a child from a municipality. The municipalities must be able to decide for themselves whether it is appropriate or not. Otherwise, we'll protect the perpetrators. As far as the register of family homes is concerned, I do not think it is a problem with the current system to have a register of all approved family homes throughout Sweden and which municipalities have approved them as family homes after examination. Before you become a family home you are approved by a municipality. You go through a certain test and are often tested if you are suitable or not. It shouldn't be very difficult to do. As I said, we had this in our childhood guarantee, which we launched for the 2014 elections. As with the guarantee on a car, a childhood guarantee does not necessarily mean that one's childhood is always flawless, but if shortcomings come to the attention of the authorities, they will do everything they can to remedy these deficiencies as soon as possible. Then there must be no bottlenecks that prevent information from passing on from one authority to another, but authorities must be able to bring this between themselves. Nor should it be possible to move between municipalities and get away with an investigation from the social services, as it is actually in Sweden. It should also not be possible for inappropriate support families to just change municipalities and suddenly be able to have new children that they have as their income rather than being cared for.
i-1790125dbd27a278-198	Mr. Old President! Rhetorically, it is easy to say that you would rather protect children than someone who is suspected of something, and of course I am in favour of children's best interests going first. However, the question has to be asked as to how it is possible to end up in a suspicion register. Any one of us can press charges against anyone at any time for anything. The consequence must then be that the children who currently reside in that family home can no longer remain and not just that they do not make a considered position there. It's just going to be empty, and everyone is told that it's about someone who was suspected of having sex with children– but it didn't lead to anything, it was completely unsubstantiated. I cannot ask Mikael Eskilandersson a question, but I would think he shares my view that it would be very unfortunate if this were the consequence. It is therefore enough for me to send in a police report that someone is suspected of a crime against children. However, it is of course incredibly important that the information works and that it is possible to prosecute quickly when it comes to these situations. However, I do not think that we should remove social services from their great responsibilities. You don't make a request, place a child, and that's the way it is. A placement of a child is surrounded by a lot of controls and must also be followed up with regularity. The child has his or her rights and must have a social security secretary who can be contacted. Again, I do not think the idea of a register is wrong, but I am quite convinced that there are difficulties in this and that that is why it has not done so. Nevertheless, I really want to say to Mikael Eskilandersson that it is very worth being able to coordinate and facilitate for the municipalities in their placements, and I think it is a pity if it should get stuck in a matter of suspicion. I think there are many other things that you can do and that you really should do.
i-1790125dbd27a278-203	Mr. Old President! Sofia Nilsson has asked me If the government will build a new legislative change on the currently weakly substantiated arguments raised in the MPA's report If the Government will build a new legislative amendment to the Swedish Medical Products Agency's legislative proposal, even though it risks hampering the development of new healthcare services and available comprehensive solutions for patients If the government will build a new legislative change of the proposed nature, based on a review without convincing evidence, empirical material or proportionality assessment, even though it may conflict with EU law. Apoteken is part of the care chain and contributes through advice and other services to safe care and safe drug use. Information and advice about medicines and self-care provided by pharmacies may mean that the customer does not need to contact a doctor, which relieves the health care. Different forms of collaboration between health care providers and pharmacies can be valuable to patients and also lead to an effective use of health care resources. This does not require the existence of a relationship of ownership between the parties. The government's position is that patients must be able to trust that they receive the care and medicines they need based on their needs, not on the basis of commercial interests. The then bourgeois government's regulation of the pharmacy market and the development of new business collaborations on it led the MPA to review whether current restrictions on obtaining authorisation to operate pharmacies are appropriate or whether there are grounds for change. Depending on the ownership relationship, there may be a risk of over-the-life of the medicinal product and patients not receiving the most appropriate treatment. The use of healthcare may also be affected. Such risks need to be taken seriously. Apoteken meets many people and has a central role in helping visitors to the right level of care, such as self-care with over-the-counter medicines when it is deemed sufficient. In order to ensure that the personnel have good competence for this task, the Swedish Medical Products Agency has a mission to be reported in June 2020 to, in consultation with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, map training programmes and develop proposals for competence requirements that apply to self-care advice. It is important that the potential of pharmacies to contribute to a better use of medicines is exploited more effectively. In August 2018, the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency was tasked with conducting a preliminary study in the field. The preliminary study concerns the conditions for carrying out and evaluating a trial with an outpatient pharmaceutical service for a defined customer group and aims to achieve increased adherence to prescribed treatment. The mission was reported recently. As far as the MPA's report is concerned, it can be concluded that it does not contain ready-made legislative proposals and that the MPA suggests that certain issues need to be further investigated. The report is currently being analysed within the Government Office. The Council has not taken a position on how the proposals should be dealt with further.
i-Rm2fP2Yfuvs9dbD3TLUzDq	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, for your answer! I am very pleased that the Minister and the Government share my view and that of the Center Party that pharmacies are already playing an important role in the healthcare chain. That is why I am a little surprised that we are now considering a legislative proposal which means that we will severely restrict or completely stop pharmacies' ability to continue to develop and become a more important player in the future. I am particularly surprised because attempts are being made to remedy problems that actually do not exist. At this time, with great demands on the transition towards close care, exciting innovations and private initiatives are emerging. All in all, it is these solutions that can create new and improved welfare services. For some time now, I have been following the development of nursing clinics by pharmacies with great interest. One example I would like to highlight is Apoteket Hjärtat, who together with the digital care provider My doctor is undertaking joint investments in clinics and services that increase accessibility in healthcare. The fact that health care providers and pharmacies are today allowed to make joint investments in these types of clinics, which can be owned and operated together, creates a basis for continuity and long-term sustainability. The clinics I have visited have consisted of a nurse's clinic inside the pharmacy, where the patient can turn for easier ailments and troubles. At the clinic the nurse has the opportunity to make their own assessments, give advice on self-care and connect to a doctor via a link for further assessment. The availability of a doctor if necessary creates security for both the nurse and the patient. This type of clinic or reception could become a more important actor that contributes to public health and that is involved in developing the healthcare of the future in Sweden. Another point with these receptions at pharmacies is the exchange of knowledge between pharmacists, nurses and pharmacists, which provides an increased quality and patient safety. As I said, these receptions have been able to emerge thanks to the fact that the legislation allows it today. The problem now is that the government wants to set the hook for this development through a change of legislation proposed by the Swedish Medical Products Agency. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency to review whether current restrictions to obtain an outpatient pharmacy are appropriate. The focus has been on whether private healthcare providers should have the right to own pharmacies and how to view the sister relationship between healthcare companies and pharmacy companies. The reason for the MPA's proposal is primarily the risk of over-marketing of medicinal products because of other incentives to prescribe than medical purposes and the risk of unnecessary use of care. The link with the assignment that the Medical Products Agency was given is that there is nothing that today indicates that the current situation is a problem. Current regulations of the pharmacy market and healthcare services, in combination with the ethical guidelines governing healthcare professionals, including pharmacists, work well. In addition, prescription and administration of medicinal products are closely monitored by several authorities. Nor is there any financial incentive to refer to care rather than to self-care. I therefore wonder how the government and the Minister feel that the bill will make it more difficult or actually threaten to put a complete stop to a new form of close and accessible care that could relieve ordinary care, create career paths for nurses and increase accessibility throughout the country.
i-1790125dbd27a278-223	Mr. Old President! It is not a new perspective that Sofia Nilsson and I share, namely that pharmacies are an important link in the healthcare chain, i.e. health centres, pharmacies and of course hospitals. It is clear that there is a large exchange, and different competences need to work together and work together to make it effective and accessible to patients in need of medicines. But I also see risks when it comes to economic interests becoming governing, and I would like to return to my wording in my reply, namely that cooperation does not have to mean joint ownership. It reinforces that dimension, and that's why the government gave the assignment to the Medical Products Agency. I think it is natural that the government should act and that there is a precautionary principle so that citizens feel convinced and confident that there is no other purpose or interest in the care and medicines they receive than to ensure that what the Health Act says about care as needed is given. One should not feel that there can be strong commercial interests behind. It is clear that technological developments make it possible. We will see a lot of cooperation and cooperation, but I say once again that cooperation and cooperation are not the same thing as co-ownership. In view of the fact that Sofia Nilsson has spoken on several occasions about the Swedish Medical Products Agency's legislative proposal, I would like to say that there is no legislative proposal. There are no constitutional proposals. But there is an investigation from the Medical Products Agency that we are looking at in the Government Office to see if there is anything of interest to work with. For those who may be listening to the debate and who are considering whether or not there is a legislative proposal, I would like to say that there is no one. A legislative proposal means a proposal that is ready to be tabled now. There's no such thing. But if any changes are to be made, legislative changes are required, and then we have more work ahead of us. There are many different conclusions, and I have also noticed that there are many upset feelings about the existence of ownership between a pharmacy and a healthcare provider – in fact not health centres, if we are to call healthcare providers online a form of health care centres. It's something we can see unfolding. What we need to take into account when we have common visions, such as Sofia Nilsson and I, is that it is about strengthening the close care, primary care, getting a firm medical contact and so on. We have to think about how these chains look and how we make them work as optimally as possible. I would like to emphasise that we can work together and work together, and the new solutions are really positive. But co-ownership is still turning this one step further. We need to continue to analyse this issue.
i-1790125dbd27a278-230	Mr. Old President! I am opposed to the argument that development can continue anyway, that there is no need for co-ownership, despite a change in the law. The authorities not only propose that the healthcare provider's ability to own outpatient pharmacies should be limited, but also that legislation should make it impossible for a sister relationship between companies. There's a knot. There can certainly be collaborations that are not based on an ownership relationship, but I cannot understand why we want to make this option impossible when we have not seen that the risks that have been feared have been realised. The Medical Products Agency itself raises the fact that joint ownership can facilitate investments in the form of clinics or technology, and it can enable digital information exchange. Evidensia, a veterinary consultant who has been one of the consultation partners of the Medical Products Agency in the review, believes that the Agency's proposal could instead lead to a loss of transparency in company structures if collaboration agreements are to replace ownership relationships. In fact, there is a greater risk here than there would be a joint ownership. It is a pity that the government wants to risk this when we see that both can emerge. There can be both cooperation and co-ownership. The theoretical risk on which the MPA bases its entire conclusion was already identified in connection with the re-regulation of the pharmacy market. At the time, the government felt that there was no need for restrictions on ownership in the way the agency is now proposing because the private health care company does not in itself have an independent right to prescribe medicines. This right is linked to the prescribers' employees in the business, not the business itself or the company itself. In the decade that has passed since the re-regulation of pharmacies, that risk has not materialised. That is why I feel it is a pity that the government is once again in danger of a slowdown or a complete halt in development. How does the Minister view those risks?
i-1790125dbd27a278-236	Mr. Old President! Commercial interests are present in a completely different way than before when there was no liberalised pharmacy market. You've got to see that anyway. It would be irresponsible not to have it in the back of your head because there are commercial operators who are able to prescribe prescriptions and are interested in selling medicines. If two commercial actors meet with a common goal and common interests – and I do not deny that they have the ambition to provide good care and make an effort to provide people with better conditions for good health – we as a state need to ensure that the market is secured in the way necessary to ensure that they are not allowed to govern. I repeat, there is no legislative proposal. We should not use that wording. If and when there are any legislative proposals, we will present them and be willing to discuss them. I'd love to discuss them with Sofia Nilsson. But so far there are no legislative proposals to go to Parliament. I would also like to emphasise that it is important to stimulate the development of digital solutions, accessibility and proximity in different ways and to facilitate time and space. It is clear that there may be conflicts when a pharmacy wishing to sell a medicinal product cooperates with an actor who can prescribe the medicines that you would like to buy at a particular pharmacy. I'm not saying they exist, but they can. It is important that we continue the dialogue on this issue. We are only at the beginning of our work. Sofia Nilsson gives an example. In many contexts, we have discussed the relationship of online healthcare providers to the more firmly located health centres. Apoteket AB is now also involved in the work and is a partner in Doctoral 24. I have no other opinion with regard to the state pharmacy than I do with privately operated pharmacies. However, I believe that it is up to me and the legislator to ensure positive developments in health care and to increase the conditions and opportunities for accessible, good and close health care. We will ensure the necessary synergies, but we will ensure that commercial interests do not govern and that the patient feels safe.
i-1790125dbd27a278-241	Mr. Old President! When it comes to the risk or danger that one sees with prescriptions linked to an economic incentive, I think it is a bit tricky to understand what one thinks it would actually mean. Of course, the patient should be able to rely on the care and medicines he or she receives. We fully agree on that. What I get a little perplexed about is the suspicion of or suspicion by the Minister and the Medical Products Agency of the professions concerned, doctors, pharmacists and nurses. It's actually I.D. professions. It is believed that they could take undue account of financial incentives at the expense of the patient's health. I take this as calling into question the professional ethics and integrity of these professions. Not only do these professions follow carefully selected recommendations from, for example, SKR or the regions and from clients. They are also under the supervision of the Swedish Medical Products Agency and TLV. If a person now suspects inappropriate prescription or that instead of referring to self - care, he or she chooses to refer to, for example, a doctor's visit to make more money, why is it not possible to strengthen supervision? The Minister and the Government are considering how the supervision is carried out. I think that, instead of going directly on major legislative changes or what the MPA has proposed, the supervisory part could be reviewed in order to enable these pharmacies and these activities to continue to develop.
i-1790125dbd27a278-245	Mr. Old President! We will of course make sure that we use the digital opportunities in different ways, but also the possibility of cooperation and the interest in cooperation and collaboration in the best possible way. I would like to respond briefly to Sofia Nilsson's question why the supervisory authorities cannot have the task of ensuring that this works. I am thinking that we do not need to entrust the supervisory authorities with tasks that will be infinitely large. We need to secure as much as we can, and then we have supervisory authorities to ensure that it is complied with. But I think that if we agree that there may be shortcomings, then we should make sure that we plug as much as possible. I think that our supervisory authorities are going to have a lot to do if they are going to maintain this. Then I really want to re-enter. It is clear that it is in no way a question of mistrust of any profession or suspicion that someone is unable to handle their professional ethics. But I would like to say that commercial interests affect different kinds of driving forces. I can take the old queue billions as an example. The same doctors, nurses, nurses, and others who had previously received a cue billion to graze on the care line and make sure that people had their first visit. A lot of people got their first visit but not always their second one, which is one reason why we have together made an updated queue billion. We take a broader approach and ensure that we do not give those kinds of wrong incentives. I am in no way seeking to stop positive development or make cooperation more difficult. I am keen that we should not have wrong motivations, that those who work in the business should feel that they get the best conditions, that they are not driven by commercial interests and that patients feel confident that it is the need for care that governs and absolutely nothing else.
i-V4WYrGvZj7KTBuVSgns9A6	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Peter Eriksson and Minister Lena Micko. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-1790125dbd27a278-252	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Lena Micko. Thanks to the initiative we Moderates took the other week, welfare will now be strengthened by 7.5 billion this year. It is money that can make a big difference in the country's welfare operations. This can prevent savings and redundancies that would otherwise have affected the country's students and the elderly. In a few weeks' time, the Riksdag will vote on this, and my question to Minister of Local Government Lena Micko is: Will the Government recommend the Social Democrats here in Parliament to vote yes or no to the welfare money?
i-1790125dbd27a278-253	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson asks about the welfare money. First of all, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that the Moderates are interested in welfare. For eight years, we have seen you cut taxes by 140 billion – a lot of money. If there's anything welfare needs, it's supplements. We Social Democrats take responsibility for welfare and prioritise it. The budget that we have now proposed brings forward the money that would have been in the budget for next year. As far as I know, this is, from your side today, only funded by 2 1⁄2 billion which you have put forward in the Committee on Finance.
i-1790125dbd27a278-255	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government cannot answer whether the Social Democrats should give priority to welfare before free years or vice versa here in Parliament when we are about to decide on this. It's interesting for the citizens of the country to know. It took three weeks for the government to find out that welfare was underfunded, as many of us other parties had said. I think it is reasonable for you to reinforce in the spring budget, but reinforcements are already needed here and now. Will the Government recommend the Social Democrats here in Parliament to vote yes or no to welfare money before free years?
i-1790125dbd27a278-257	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats always take responsibility for welfare. We will always ensure that the proposals we put forward are financed. We are now making a major reinforcement. How you will then discuss in Parliament is a matter for the Finance Committee to prepare. Clearly, this is the least reinforcement we will do. We will also propose in the autumn budget work for next year how the resources for welfare will continue to be strengthened.
i-1790125dbd27a278-260	Madam President, I would like Municipal finances are under pressure. Eight out of ten municipalities are planning cuts in welfare. We see increased expenditure on support for livelihoods, rising child poverty and economic forecasts without any prospect of improvement. I think we can see that the promised super-economy failed. Disaster, a system failure – these, Madam President, are not my words but come from various municipalities facing planned cuts in welfare. These are closed fire stations, sick-leaved, stressed-out teachers, elderly people who freeze and disabled people who do not get help. Nevertheless, Sweden remains at the top of the EU's list of new arrivals. I could ask how much more Swedish municipalities can cope with, but the answer is that the border is already crossed. My question to the Minister for Civil Affairs is therefore: why should the municipalities take the bill for the government's immigration policy?
i-1790125dbd27a278-263	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev! J ag is very happy that we together, the municipalities and the state, ensure that we have a welfare that we take responsibility for and develop. There is a great deal to continue to develop. However, if we had not had people coming to our country and strengthening the labour market, this would have been an even greater problem. It sometimes takes time to get out into education and work; there we need to work more intensively. But we can now see that the start-up period has been reduced and it takes less time to get out into work and education. It is important to emphasise that this is a joint work for the municipalities and the state.
i-1790125dbd27a278-265	Madam President, I would like Getting into the labour market is not the same as getting a job. Long-term unemployment remains high in many immigrant groups. I am rewording my question: does the Minister at all acknowledge that there is a link between the finances of municipalities and immigration policy?
i-1790125dbd27a278-267	Madam President, I would like The finances of municipalities are very closely linked to population development and the need to find ways to manage the livelihoods of the labour market with more people in work. We have elderly people who have needs, and we have rapid age development. This is a joint effort. The responsibility of the state is to ensure that the municipalities have the means to do this, and we will always prioritise this.
i-1790125dbd27a278-269	Madam President, I would like Farmers all over Sweden have for several years been affected by threats and hatred from different groups of animal rights activists. This may involve both physical and psychological threats that farmers face, or trespassing on barns and farmyards. The government has taken some steps, but more needs to be done to tackle this type of crime against farmers. My question to Minister Morgan Johansson is therefore: what further initiatives will the Minister take to further tighten up legislation so that animal rights can be combated?
i-1790125dbd27a278-271	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to agree that it is an unacceptable crime to interfere with people in their professional activities. Everyone who runs a business in Sweden has the right to feel the security it means that society is there if someone goes after them. This obviously also applies to the country's farmers. We have taken action in recent years. Among other things, the police have been able to intensify their work against this type of extremism and violent crimes against farmers. We have also implemented a new camera surveillance legislation, which makes it easier, for example, to follow up and see what individuals are doing this. We are preparing further legislative proposals. However, we are still too early in that process for me to be able to give any information as to when they will be given. But I can assure Mikael Larsson that we take this issue seriously.
i-1790125dbd27a278-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that the government is addressing these issues, because it is very important, as the Minister said. A specific question in this context, which many farmers and also the National Federation of Farmers, LRF, have raised, is how you look at the area around a farm, that is, the farm yard, and what the delimitation should look like there. A supplementary question to the Government is whether he is prepared to ensure that this area is extended so that it is not possible to get so close to agriculture.
i-1790125dbd27a278-276	Madam President, I would like The problem picture is well known. The legislation dealing with illegal infringements dates back to the 1960s, I think. One of the issues we are looking at is whether we need to do something further in this. As I understand it, there are some activists who use opportunities such as cow-releases and other things to get into these areas in a way that is not very welcome. This is one of the measures we are looking at.
i-1790125dbd27a278-280	Madam President, I would like The richer one is, the more it destroys a climate. In the name of climate justice, the Paris Agenda decided that additional assistance should be provided so that the important aid to schools, health care, SRHR and good governance, among other things, would not be eroded. Therefore, I was very surprised when a party that calls itself an environmental party instead of making sure that the rich did not become richer and thus more climate-destructive chose to lower their taxes. In addition, Sweden does not assume its full responsibility as our emissions targets ignore our climate impact in terms of the consumer goods produced in other countries and our travel abroad. Wouldn't it have been better for equality, Eriksson equality and not least the climate if the government instead of tax relief and cleaning aid for the rich to get additional climate aid?
i-1790125dbd27a278-284	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. Sweden is one of the countries in the world that invests most in supporting the Paris Agreement and ensuring that the Green Climate Fund, the Environmental Fund, the Adaptation Fund and other international environmental work are conducted in a more offensive way so that the Paris Agreement can be implemented. Through aid, we also support a number of countries being able to get help and support to do what they need to do in order to meet the requirements of the Paris Agreement. We have nothing to be ashamed of. We are far ahead and do more than most other countries. We should be proud of our work – although I agree that it needs to be done even more in the future.
i-1790125dbd27a278-288	Madam President, I would like In order for the rich countries, which actually destroy the environment and climate most, to assume their responsibilities, it was decided in the Paris Agenda that this aid should not be taken from other aid but should be just additional. What the government is now doing is letting the world's poor pay the bill for the rich's tax cuts, cleaning allowances, consumption and travel. Why does the government not want to follow what we agreed on in the Paris Agenda and stop burdening other aid?
i-1790125dbd27a278-291	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are doing a lot of international work. I would think that we are engaged in efforts of around SEK 8 billion a year to support climate change and the countries involved in that work. I have not heard any of these countries complain that we are helping and helping to make this transition internationally and in our aid countries and that we are supporting the World Bank and the other international forums we are participating in.
i-1790125dbd27a278-293	Madam President, I would like I have already put this question in writing to Minister Johansson, but for reasons that will be clear, I am also asking it now that the Government is in the Chamber. In March 2019, Minister Johansson promised an investigation into the possibility of stopping animal rights activists' demonstrations in farmers. However, this investigation has not yet started. On 26 November, therefore, I put a written question to the Government on this matter. The question was to be answered by 4 December at the latest. The question was: Why have the minister and government not launched the promised investigation yet? I was told that the Government's response was delayed until 11 December, then until 19 December, then until 14 January, then until 21 January and then until 29 January, i.e. yesterday. The day before yesterday I received an e-mail saying that it is again delayed, until 12 February. Therefore, I now ask the question here: why have the Minister and the Government not launched the promised investigation yet?
i-1790125dbd27a278-297	Madam President, I would like I think it's obvious to most people that the Justice Department has a lot to do. The discussion about gang crime, shootings and the explosions has led us to launch a wide range of proceedings at the Ministry of Justice and, among other things, to launch numerous investigations. In a situation like this, we have to give priority to what we take first. We are working on this issue but we are not finished yet because we have allowed the issue of organised crime, which has dominated Swedish politics for so long, to take precedence. However, I can assure Kjell-Arne Ottosson that we will also be addressing this issue. However, we need a little more time to get this process in place.
i-1790125dbd27a278-300	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I fully agree with the Government that gang crime is undoubtedly an important issue. However, the question is whether this is a correct way of dealing with an issue. That I have to wait for answers, I can live with. But our heroes who every day make sure that we have high quality, good Swedish food on the table, are they not worth a better treatment? They are the ones who wait the most for the answer from Minister Johansson.
i-1790125dbd27a278-303	Madam President, I would like As I explained in a previous answer, this does not mean that the government has been inactive on these issues. On the contrary, the police have been able to intensify their work on this type of crime, thanks to the fact that the police have received major reinforcements in recent years. We have redesigned camera surveillance legislation so that camera surveillance can be used in these contexts as well. As far as criminal law is concerned, we have a process under way, and when it is completed, this will also come into place.
i-1790125dbd27a278-306	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Eriksson. It is not possible to build sustainable development, prioritise gender equality, protect minorities and create stability if democracy and development are not prioritised. That is why the Liberals have been the driving force for strengthening democratic aid in the negotiations on the January agreement, and we continue to be the driving force for this. In an inventory from Sida, which came in November last year, it emerged that the election support, i.e. the support for elections, has not taken root in Sida's operations. What will Peter Eriksson do to ensure that Sida strengthens its work with election support? Democracy is not just elections, but it is not possible to have a democracy without elections.
i-1790125dbd27a278-310	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. Allow me to take this opportunity to thank the Liberals for their support for the democratic effort that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is making, including in the field of aid operations. We are prioritising this even higher than before and implementing it in the new strategies we take decisions on in country after country. My focus is that we are investing widely in democracy. We are strengthening the work against corruption and for human rights. This also applies to parties and elections, which are, of course, a central part of the work to achieve a functioning democracy. We have also given a mission to Sida, which will shortly come back with proposals on how to strengthen this work. There will therefore be concrete proposals in the future.
i-1790125dbd27a278-313	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I am pleased that the policy of the Liberals to invest in democratic aid and strengthen democracy in the world has been taken on board in government policy. What worries me a little is that the Government does not take the inventory Sida has done in equal seriousness. It is clear that a broad effort is being made on democracy, and that is a positive thing. But if the election support does not take root in Sida's activities, there will be no democracy.
i-1790125dbd27a278-316	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have recently given a mission to Sida to come up with concrete proposals on how to strengthen the work. This applies widely, but it also applies to elections, freedom of expression and freedom of the press and how we should strengthen these areas. You cannot just look at election issues; you have to see democracy in a broader perspective. Public elections will not work unless there is freedom of expression or freedom of the press in the country, for example.
i-1790125dbd27a278-319	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg. The newspapers have been able to read that the police organization is growing and that it has never had as many employees as now, while there are several thousand students in police training. You can also browse the newspapers and read that police training is not filled and that many police officers leave the profession, so the picture is double.
i-1790125dbd27a278-322	Madam President, I would like The short answer is that both images are correct, but I want to start with another picture. I think that many over the past week or the last few days have seen the pictures from Malmö, where a hundred police officers and customs officials have made great efforts in some neighbourhoods where there have been problems with crime and drugs. Then you can think about if all the police are in Malmö now when we run Operation Rimfrost and force against gang crime there. In fact, this is not a bad issue, as the police have been underfunded and understaffed for a long time. It is therefore important that the police organization now grows throughout Sweden. We had problems at the last admission process. Although we have more than doubled the number admitted to police training, the number entering it decreased. Many still apply for police training, but not all of them are quite up to the mark. It is an important issue for us to fill the places that we have now funded.
i-1790125dbd27a278-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to hear that there are actually more policemen, not fewer. I live in Ludvika, Dalarna, and in our county we want to see more police officers. Then my question is: how does the government ensure that there are police officers throughout the country?
i-1790125dbd27a278-328	Madam President, I would like This is one of the most important elements. The police are growing with 10,000 more employees, and this is to be noticed throughout the country. Last year we saw that it was growing in all police regions, which was exciting. Region Bergslagen has 224 more police officers now than when the initiative started. Last year 24 new police officers stepped into the police stations in Dalarna. Above all, the number will grow every six months, because we have decided to strengthen the police and security throughout Sweden. The Animal Welfare Act and the County Administrative Board's ability to supervise
i-1790125dbd27a278-330	Madam President, I would like I'm one of those guys who's still watching table television. Every Friday I look forward to On the track with joy, and every Wednesday I look forward with interest to seeing Mission Review. But yesterday it was neither with pleasure nor interest that I conducted the mission review's report on the total misery that was shown from a dairy farm in Hälsingland: cow shit and urine up to the knees and extremely dirty animals, some with wounds so serious that one saw the bones. The situation of the animals on the farm is totally unacceptable. I have a question for Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. In case of suspicion of a crime, the police have the opportunity to make a search in a dwelling after a decision, if you want to find evidence. The mission review yesterday stated that county boards do not have this possibility when you want to enter a stable to see if there is evidence, to comply with the Animal Welfare Act. I wonder why.
i-1790125dbd27a278-332	Madam President, I would like We divided a little about who would take this issue. There are several questions in one. I would like to start by saying that we have a new animal welfare law that is modernised. It's not that old, but it came a little more than six months ago. It is more modern and clearer. We now have work in progress to ensure that the law can be implemented, but the minister responsible will have to return to these parts in the future. What I can say is that we take this type of reporting seriously, because we are going to have high animal welfare standards in Sweden. We consumers expect this, and the public expects our authorities to take their audit and supervisory responsibilities seriously. If our authorities were to come in with views on how better supervision could be done, we in the government would be prepared to look at it.
i-EGrxCCMX3cF7r41cq2F9iG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Damberg, for your answer. It sounds strange to me that it would be a greater intrusion to enter a stable to be able to conduct oversight activities than to enter a private home. Maybe it's a stable search we're going to introduce. Damberg answered the question clearly. My question was if he thought a search of the stables could be a way forward. If the authorities say that is what is needed, I interpret it as being prepared to look at this tool. Yes, we have a new law on animal welfare, but obviously we cannot make it all the way through today.
i-1790125dbd27a278-338	Madam President, I would like One should know that the search is one of the areas where we in Sweden have had strict rules for when it can be carried out, even for the police. The police have now asked us to review this type of legislation. We intend to do this because we have had problems with the fact that the police have not been able to make proper searches in, for example, stores or other areas where criminals often reside and are located and where we know that drugs and weapons can be found. We have a development where we look at this issue.
i-1790125dbd27a278-341	Madam President, I would like I intend to put a question to Minister Damberg. Yesterday, around 20 owners of small hydropower visited us in the Riksdag. Small hydropower has been an important part of our power generation for centuries. It has often been the hub of the village and part of the backbone of our Swedish industrial development, and it represents important cultural environments. Today, small-scale hydropower produces local renewable electricity that can be used to balance electricity from wind and sun. It is often owned by people who live in the area, and it is part of living Swedish countryside. Small hydroelectric power has long felt a little rigidly treated. My question to Minister Damberg is: Does the Government consider small hydropower to be a socially beneficial activity? I'd like a yes or no.
i-1790125dbd27a278-345	Madam President, I would like Hydropower is socially beneficial, but there are also cultural historical values of some of the small-scale hydropower around Sweden. As Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby certainly knows, Sweden has to implement the EU Water Directive. There are demands on how to deal with these kinds of issues, and it has been a great job. I know that responsible ministers and ministries have been involved to get a good implementation that meets the EU requirements we have to follow on water issues but which also ensures that we maintain the uniqueness that Sweden has through small-scale hydropower around the country. It is an important work that is being done, and we think that we have had a good dialogue during the journey.
i-1790125dbd27a278-349	Madam President, I would like We have a crisis in health care today. Cancer sufferers die in anticipation of surgery, and older people die behind the curtain in the emergency room without notice. The description of Swedish healthcare is now anything but flattering. A recent occupational health and safety survey conducted by the Swedish Medical Association shows that 66 percent of doctors have sent home patients who should have been admitted due to a lack of care places. In recent years, as many as 79 percent of doctors have prescribed patients too early for the same reason. Sweden currently has 2.2 care places per 1 000 inhabitants, which is the lowest in the EU as a whole, and the trend continues downwards. My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. Is the Government satisfied with the number of care places we have in Sweden? If not, why have you not taken effective measures to reverse developments? You've still had more than five years.
i-1790125dbd27a278-353	Madam President, I would like Investing in health care is definitely a priority for this government. It may be worth noting that when the Swedish Democrats supported a budget a few years ago, they chose SEK 20 billion in tax cuts instead of additional spending on welfare. They are clear that it does not facilitate the work to strengthen and create more care places throughout Sweden. The government has now brought forward SEK 5 billion to welfare. Of these, SEK 11⁄2 billion will go to the country's regions. SEK 3 billion is now focused on a new and modernised queue effort to reduce queues. But ultimately it is also about the regions. The large regions bear a very great responsibility for ensuring that there are care places. There is also a political responsibility in these regions to actually take this issue very seriously. It is not only the state that can solve this. The main responsibility for health care and care places lies with the regions of Sweden. But the state has shown that we will do a lot to support municipalities and regions in this work.
i-1790125dbd27a278-356	Madam President, I would like At the end of last year, the government set up a welfare commission aimed at finding ways to strengthen welfare in different ways. It is a very good and important initiative in view of the challenges we face in Swedish welfare. However, to my great surprise and disappointment, the government has invited only representatives of the state, regions, municipalities and trade unions to join the Commission. Privately run health care activities are a natural part of the everyday life of well-being. Unfortunately, the government does not seem to share this view. The private representatives have thus not been given a place in the Commission. It is very unfortunate and troubling. My question therefore goes to Minister Lena Micko. What is the idea that the government has put together a welfare commission without the representation of the private welfare companies, and how do you intend to make use of the knowledge and skills that are actually there?
i-1790125dbd27a278-359	Madam President, I would like The Welfare Commission is a very important initiative that will deal with the preconditions for how we can continue eating to ensure that we have good welfare in our country and that we need several different actors in this work. We have chosen to limit the Commission itself to a body made up of the government and the social partners, because it is nevertheless the main responsibility for welfare and for health and long-term care. But we will have several working groups and reference groups. I know, for example, that health business operators are a very important part of this work, and I will welcome them to join the government in the further work.
i-1790125dbd27a278-361	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Damberg. Last Thursday was a joyous day for many Sami people. Then the final judgment was finally passed in the Girjas case, and the Supreme Court gave the right to Girja's Girja village. This was the end of a dispute that has been going on for more than ten years and a historical gain for Girja's Girja village against the state. But during the days that have followed, there has been not only joy. Only hours after the verdict began comments with hate, threats and racism to flow on social media. And so it has continued. Samehathet has existed for a long time; it is nothing new. But this is a recent example of how the ugly face of racism turns out as soon as Sami issues are addressed. This behaviour is, of course, totally unacceptable.
i-1790125dbd27a278-365	Madam President, I would like I thank Jessica Wetterling for a very important question. The Sami people in Sweden have historically been subjected to oppression and racism and during certain periods have also been physically exposed to threats and harassment. The fact that now that a court settles a legal dispute is faced with such hatred again from certain individuals in social media is terrible. I am ashamed that Swedes behave in this way in our country towards one of our important national minorities. For me, it is important that this hatred is taken seriously and that we also ensure that the police prioritise it. So I was happy to read the police's statement that they are really taking this seriously and are now doing their job to see if people can also be judged for some of the abuses that have occurred in this case. I hope that this can show others that this is not the way to behave in Sweden.
i-1790125dbd27a278-367	Madam President, I would like We have begun to understand that religion and development are interrelated, and you know things that we do not know. This statement comes from a Head of Unit at Sida at a meeting with one of Sida's framework agreements organisations. Last week, Minister Eriksson answered a question from Anders Österberg about belief and freedom of religion in the government's democratic initiative. Peter Eriksson then wrote about the importance of integrating religion as part of context analysis and in multidimensional poverty analysis. Against this background, I would like to ask Peter Eriksson what skills-enhancing measures he believes should be taken to give the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Sida the knowledge of religion and religious freedom that they need to carry out these analyses. Are Peter Eriksson and the government prepared to give the clear mandates and provide the resources needed?
i-1790125dbd27a278-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is quite clear that hardly a day goes by without seeing that religion plays a major role in international work on both aid activities and peace and conflict. If we are to have peace in the future and better opportunities for individual countries and people to develop, religion must be included in this and perhaps much clearer than we have done in the past. The government has recently increased the administrative grant significantly for Sida. It provides an opportunity for them to use more resources and more staff on the ground close to the actions and programmes carried out and also to have more knowledge of the situation in which they operate. I think this is an answer which shows that they have greater opportunities and will have more opportunities in the future to cope with these tasks.
i-1790125dbd27a278-373	Madam President, I would like Public procurement is an important tool for Sweden's authorities, municipalities and regions to provide high quality services throughout the country. Today, however, many, both suppliers and purchasers, feel that the system is unnecessarily complex and rigid and often leads to appeals. There is a strong demand from municipalities and regions for legislation to be reviewed. Several proposals have been submitted to the Ministry of Finance in previous investigations, including the Simplification and Appellate Investigation.
i-1790125dbd27a278-376	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. How we conduct our procurements is a very important issue. Among other things, it is about knowledge about the regulations. Here, the Procurement Authority needs to provide support, and you try to work on it. Just as Fredrik Stenberg describes, it is also a question of how we can simplify the procurement procedure. That is why we now have a preparation in which we are putting together both the Simplification investigation and the Appellate investigation and in the near future will come back with a proposal that we have the ambition to implement during our term of office.
i-1790125dbd27a278-378	Madam President, I would like SVT yesterday showed a report from a farm in Hälsingland where the Animal Welfare Act is flagrantly violated. Although it is one of 3,250 dairy farms here in Sweden, it is clearly unacceptable when animals are harmed. It doesn't matter if Sweden has the world's best animal welfare law if it is so toothless that those who commit the worst crimes get away and don't get stuck in control. There are more examples of this. That is why I put my question to Morgan Johansson. When the Swedish Food Safety Agency's veterinarians reported animal welfare at a chicken slaughterhouse, where 2 000 chickens were injured every day, the court closed the investigation and found that this was accepted by the authorities. Does the Minister of Justice believe that animal welfare crime must be prosecuted more strongly?
i-1790125dbd27a278-382	Madam President, I would like I can take that question even if the legislation is not mine, nor are the police and prosecutors. One can say in general terms that police and prosecutors must have the resources to be able to prosecute this type of crime and go ashore with a preliminary investigation. In my view, in the light of the major reinforcements that are now being made to police activity, it will be possible to contribute to the prosecution of this type of crime as well. Then, of course, we are open at the Ministry of Justice to see how we can otherwise deal with this type of trouble and crime, and I assume the same applies to the Department of Agriculture.
i-1790125dbd27a278-384	Madam President, I would like I have had a dialogue with four students at ABB Upper Secondary School in Västerås who are doing a work on so-called competence demonstrations. I would therefore like to ask Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson whether the Migration Agency has alerted him to the problems that exist with the legislation specifically concerning the expulsion of skills immigration. And has he been made aware of what resources are being put in place and how to work to modernise the legislation in order to ensure that the skills that we need to get to Sweden can also stay in Sweden – regardless of formalistic excuses for the opposite?
i-1790125dbd27a278-385	Madam President, I would like We are not only aware of this, but it is also part of the January agreement to address some of the concerns associated with what is called competence expulsions. One should be clear that the grant rate is over 90 per cent – in fact up to 97 – 98 per cent – for highly qualified workers, i.e. people with further training, in Sweden applying for an extension. In other categories, however, the rate of granting is lower. I think this is linked to the fact that companies sometimes, for some of the labour immigrants with lower education who come to Sweden, slip on the rules that apply. Companies may not pay the wages they should have paid, and they do not give these people the conditions they would have had. They are thus exploited and exploited in a way that is not reasonable. Here there must be a regulatory framework that works and which not only ensures our skills supply, but also ensures that we have the labour market in order. We will now investigate this further in a special study dealing with labour immigration.
i-1790125dbd27a278-388	Madam President, I would like Robbery against children is increasing sharply. In 2019 the number of reported robberies against children increased by as much as 31 per cent. The robberies are usually studied ruthlessly: A single child is surrounded and threatened to give away a mobile phone, jacket and bank card. Degrading acts of violence are often included. For the affected children, the feeling of security is shattered, and a trauma is created for a long time to come. There is talk of the need to improve schooling, to improve cooperation and to make society better at catching children on the run. There is talk of more police officers, more severe penalties for adults and children's rights in society. But when it comes to crime, care is primarily directed at criminals and not at children who are victims of crime. The government has flagged to limit the penalty rebate for recidivists in the age range between 18 and 20 years, but in the case of minors, the trend has gone in the opposite direction. Many active criminals are in their 15 - 17's, and many become criminals far earlier than that. Swedish legislation is not adapted to reality.
i-1790125dbd27a278-391	Madam President, I would like One thing I think one should note is that the 34-point programme against gang crime that the government is working on, among other things, is to review the scale of penalties on some of the crimes committed by organised criminals. In fact, there's robbery in there as one of the crimes. We would like to follow the success of the tightening up of arms legislation. We increased the penalties for the serious crimes of arms in such a way that, pending trial, we are now arresting, that is, prisoners, people who have committed these crimes. This means that we have got a lot of the criminals off the streets. We will have to do the same with other crimes as well, and that is exactly what we are looking at. When it comes to younger criminals, I think that more effective measures must be taken to deal with them, but of course social measures must also be taken against them.
i-1790125dbd27a278-394	Madam President, I would like Last autumn, 651 students began police training. This means that over 360 seats are empty while Sweden has a need to increase the number of police officers. Since the Social Democrats took power, more than 4,000 police officers have stopped, and only 885 police officers ended in 2018. About half of them quit for reasons other than retirement. At the same time, therefore, 651 police officers will be trained from this autumn onwards, which is less than what the average ends every year. The single most important issue for the police is the issue of wages. It is therefore an important issue both when it comes to keeping police officers on duty and when it comes to recruitment grounds. My question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg is: will the government really reach its target of 10,000 more police officers by 2024 without making a special police salary effort?
i-1790125dbd27a278-396	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I can see that there are more than twice as many people who are starting police training today compared to when the government took office. We have built two new police training courses, and we continue to greatly expand the police. Right now there are 3 000 police students under training, and they will take up employment in the police organization around Sweden over the next few years. The Head of State Police tells me that he still believes it is possible to reach the target of 10,000 more. The annual figures came just a week ago when it came to the police, and we have never had as many police employees in Sweden as we had at the end of the year. We have never had so many police employees in Sweden, and we have reached about a third on the way to the 10,000 more police workers. A gratifying figure in the December figures was also that for the third year in a row, the proportion of those leaving the police is decreasing and that about a quarter of those who left in connection with the reorganisation have actually returned. More needs to be done, however, to increase attractiveness, so that police are an attractive profession.
i-1790125dbd27a278-398	Madam President, I would like In a new book by Elinor Torp entitled Vi, the Shadows we can read about what my trade union friends bring up every time I meet them, namely how people are brutally exploited by criminals in the Swedish labour market. It is about wages as low as SEK 35 per hour, about locked-in workers working 16 hours a day and about workers who die in Swedish workplaces without protective equipment, unnoticed to Swedish authorities. A law based on blind trust in companies was launched during the alliance years, with the result that criminals can sell work permits and become rich in other people's slave-like work – often completely undisturbed. My question to Minister Morgan Johansson is therefore: What is the government doing to stop this?
i-1790125dbd27a278-400	Madam President, I would like I think it is clear to most people that we need to reform the labour immigration acquis in some parts. We spoke earlier on about the deportation of skills, and in this context I said that when we look at that part, we also need to develop more measures against cheating and falsification – against the fact that organised crime can not only exploit and exploit peoples but also milk our welfare systems on money in different ways. This has been highlighted, not only in the book that the honourable Member mentioned – and which I think is, by the way, very good – but also by all the authorities working against organised crime. There was a progress report last autumn saying that we must be prepared to do things. We are currently looking at this, and we are working on directives for an investigation that will look both at the issue of skills deportation and at further, strong measures against cheating and falsification linked to labour migration. We will soon be done with it.
i-1790125dbd27a278-403	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The other week, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council presented its preliminary statistics on the number of reported offences in 2019. Among other things, it shows an increase in the number of reported rapes by 6 percent. In absolute terms, this means that in 2019 510 more rapes were reported than in the previous year. On 23 May 2018, the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the Government that the minimum punishment for rape would be increased from two to three years in prison. My question to Morgan Johansson is, therefore, when the government intends to return to Parliament with a bill on increased penalties for rape.
i-1790125dbd27a278-405	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should like to say that the measures taken by this government during its first term of office, precisely as regards men's violence against women, are probably stronger than any other government's actions. We have pushed through the new consent regulation, tightened up the legislation on sexual offences, tightened the penalties for the gross rapes and made sure that earlier we can go in with plaintiffs for those who report these crimes. We have made sure that women's shelters and crime victims' shelters now have more money to move with than ever before. We have made it easier and faster to put anklets on those who persecute their ex-wives or cohabiting people. We have taken a wide range of measures. We will continue to review the legislation in this area. We are currently signing investigation directives – not after the announcement was made, but after, among other things, we as a party went to elections that we would tighten the sexual crime legislation further. We will do so, and we are in the final stages of preparing these directives. We will do this during this term of office.
i-1790125dbd27a278-409	Madam President, I would like The question I ask goes to Minister Eriksson. Last year, Swedish aid to the Palestinian Authority amounted to SEK 96 million. Most of them go to the UN body that is working precisely on Palestinian refugees and on the Palestinian issue. They run 709 schools in the area, and there has been criticism of the educational material that is there. In 2017, some fifty pre-amendments were tabled, as girls and boys were not allowed to be depicted together in the educational material and the Israeli map was not excellent. The autumn semester 2018 came the new material. There one terrorist who murdered Israeli children is hailed – 13 died in that terrorist attack. It also celebrates the 1972 Olympic massacre as a success.
i-1790125dbd27a278-413	Madam President, I would like Thousands of Palestinian children go to schools funded by Unrwa, that is, the UN organisation that has been formed to maintain health care for Palestinian refugee areas and for the children of the region. When it comes to school and teaching materials, we make sure that we look at the material that comes. When such errors occur, it is also decided to remove them. If I remember correctly, the position on this particular material has been taken that it should not be out in schools, which has meant that these issues have been addressed.
i-1790125dbd27a278-416	Madam President, I would like Trust in and trust in the functions of society is of great importance to common security. Recently, the Global and Independent Organization Transparency International's annual survey, which reviews perceptions of corruption in the world's countries, was presented. The question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Lena Micko, because it concerns her area. Sweden remains in the same advanced position as before – only three countries in the world are better off, according to this ranking. It is of course pleasing, but we know that corruption is harmful to a society and that it is never possible to relax or feel contentment about these issues. What is happening globally is also important in Sweden, as a number of companies and social functions act cross-border. Of course, efforts need to be made locally and regionally, but also towards the business community.
i-1790125dbd27a278-421	Madam President, I would like As Per-Per-Arne Håkansson says, Sweden is well positioned internationally when it comes to ranking. But we should not settle down just because we are in a good position, but we have a responsibility to ensure that we have a high level of trust in our authorities and in our society all the time. This is an extremely important issue. Therefore, in December, the government took the initiative to start work on developing an action plan against corruption. We will have this already this year, and it will be addressed to the public institutions.
i-1790125dbd27a278-423	Madam President, I would like In 2017, the proposal to map the problem of honour in Malmö finally went through, after the Moderates demanded it and the Social Democrats stopped it for ten years. One might well ask what kind of society the Social Democrats really want when you don't even want or are able to map and find out if and how children get hurt. The result is a society that can no longer do anything – a society whose children in the hundreds or thousands are gone, lost out of the reach of salvation. Last autumn a measurement was made that found that at least 146 children were missing in our country in 2019, but in fact there are more than that. On Twitter, Morgan Johansson writes that criminals will be hunted to the end of the world. I wonder: Will the government go to the end of the world to bring home the 146 Swedish children?
i-1790125dbd27a278-426	Madam President, I would like Well, at least we're gonna do everything in our power and try to do it. For this reason, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, among other things, has been given increased resources precisely to do so. But the best thing is, of course, if we can stop this from the beginning, so that these children and young people are not taken abroad. We are therefore currently working on legislative proposals that will, among other things, allow children and young people to be subject to an exit ban and that they can also be more accessible to relatives who carry out, for example, arranged marriages or forced marriages. Even with regard to this bill, we are in the final stages of the work and close to being able to go to the Legislative Council with the proposal. I'm looking forward to that. In general, I'll say that our picture is that we broke with an old conservative notion that children are the property of the family. Our firm ideological view is that children are individuals of their own with their own rights. This should be maintained in all contexts, regardless of who it is about.
i-1790125dbd27a278-429	Madam President, I would like According to Swedish power grids, trees threaten to fall over important power lines in 65 locations around the country, with the risk of disruption in deliveries and risk of forest fires. Today, natural values mean that Swedish power grids, for example, must not fell these trees. In my county of Västernorrland, Swedish power networks were recently denied to fell 47 trees at the edge of a power line street due to natural values. In this case, it was one of the most important power lines, which transmit electricity from hydro power in the north to consumers in southern Sweden – a backbone of the Nordic electricity supply. This is of course very serious, not least from a preparedness and crisis perspective. The fact that we in Sweden have environmental legislation that counteracts the possibility of preventing accidents and forest fires and the possibility of securing the supply of electricity is not reasonable.
i-1790125dbd27a278-433	Madam President, I would like It is Swedish power grids that are responsible for the power lines and also for the safety of the power lines, so I expect them to take action and have planning work that allows them to secure the electricity supply even when there is a storm or when other natural phenomena occur. This is something that Swedish power networks invest heavily in, both when it comes to new power lines and when it comes to digging down electricity lines in some places in order to reduce vulnerability. I have full confidence that Swedish power networks are taking the issue of vulnerability very seriously. One should be aware that the authorities of and to end up in conflict between different interests, and then there must be a sensible balance. I do not intend to speak on a matter which I do not know in detail in this House.
i-1790125dbd27a278-437	Madam President, I would like Personal robbery has increased sharply in Sweden, especially personal robbery against young people. Many robberies use knives. The risk of injury and fatal outcome is high. Violence is ruthless and is a great suffering for the victim. Already in 2016 we exercised Moderates for a review of the Knife Act. In 2019 Morgan Johansson was interviewed. In the interview, he said that since the punishment for serious gun crimes has been tightened, there is a risk that criminals will arm themselves with a knife. Morgan Johansson said: That is why I think there may be reason to open up a penalty for violations of the knife law, because the consequences of this kind of crime can be terrible. I have asked Mikael Damberg a question about this, and he replied that he thinks the penalty scales are adequate. There are therefore two different messages from the representatives of the government. Then I wonder: What is really going on? Are you going to review the scale of the punishment or not?
i-1790125dbd27a278-441	Madam President, I would like Now that we have tightened the penalties for the serious weapons crimes so much, there is a risk that some of the criminals will switch to using a knife instead. This is a development that has been seen, among other things, in the United Kingdom. They have alerted themselves to such a development. We Social Democrats went to elections to tighten the penalties in the knife law. We will have to do a review. Then the question has been when to do it and what the timetable is for it. As everyone understands, we are currently doing almost all the points in the 34-point programme, and it has taken a lot of time. However, I imagine that we will be reviewing the scale of penalties during this parliamentary term, otherwise we will be in a great deal of trouble precisely in terms of the use of knives in criminal circles.
i-1790125dbd27a278-444	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Damberg. It concerns the c oronavirus, the pandemic which is now spreading from China and which seems to have a much greater spread than the previous SARS virus, for example. Last Tuesday, over 1,700 people in China had been infected, and there are over 100 deaths. Now we can see that the virus has also spread to Europe. My question is: What does Sweden's preparedness for the coronavirus look like in general, and what is specific about drug preparedness?
i-UJwvVWy9h9hXydXWSM7Woj	Madam President, I would like The government monitors developments via the Public Health Agency, which in turn is in contact with the WHO and the EU's disease control bodies as well as regional infectious diseases doctors. The government is prepared to make the decisions recommended by the authorities. But in general it can be said that the authorities have so far said that the risk of an infectious situation in Sweden is small, but that there may be individual cases in Sweden in the future because we have so much international travel. The government is following this very closely. We are in close contact with the authorities and are prepared to take the decisions recommended by the authorities.
i-1790125dbd27a278-449	Madam President, I would like Last year alone, the number of reported rapes against women increased by 10 per cent. At the same time, both the number and the proportion of reported rapes leading to prosecutions have decreased in recent years. Rape is one of the worst crimes you can expose a person to. The fact that there is almost impunity today is nothing more than a complete political failure. The Moderates have proposed that the minimum penalty for rape should be raised to three years in prison, something that a majority here in Parliament supported as late as two years ago. Despite the fact that almost two years have passed and rapes continue to increase, the government has still not even set up an investigation into the strengthening of the minimum penalty for rape.
i-1790125dbd27a278-453	Madam President, I would like First of all, since the last parliamentary term, Sweden has the most stringent sex crime legislation we have ever had. We now have consent legislation, legislation on negligent offences, stricter penalties for serious rapes and better plaintiffs' support for those who report the crimes. This, together with a wide range of other measures, was carried out during the last parliamentary term. The Social Democrats also went to elections on a penalty for rape of the normal grade, so it is good to see that the majority of the Riksdag joins up with this demand. We are now in the final stages of our work on an investigation directive on this. And like all the other election promises that we will deliver, we will also be able to deliver this during this term of office. I would also like to see a tightening up of rape legislation in this regard.
i-1790125dbd27a278-456	Madam President, I would like There are many problems with the High School Act. Uncertainty, homelessness, widespread mental illness and precarious livelihoods have led young people to feel compelled to sell sex and drugs. It is the municipalities that are allowed to take responsibility and costs for the government's inadequate impact assessment in their migration policy proposal. The secondary school law is inhumane, unfair and unreasonable. Despite the distress calls from municipalities, authorities, civil society and young people themselves, the government has said that the law applies and that no review is up to date. Tomorrow, 400 young people will have to move from the Finnish Immigration Service's housing to the most temporary housing through the municipality.
i-1790125dbd27a278-459	Madam President, I would like It's a bit backwards when Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm resents the fact that some of the young people now need to move out of their current homes – they have been informed since early this autumn that this would happen – when her only solution is that they should be thrown out of the country. It would be the result if we were to tear up the high school law. Then they would not be able to read on. We took the view in the last parliamentary term that this was a group of young people who had waited a very long time. They had arrived in November 2015 and had started school in Sweden. Then we said: All right, you must continue to go to school, and you must ensure that you keep your skin and commit no crimes, and then you shall establish yourself in the labour market. In that case, you can stay in Sweden. I think that was the humane way of trying to solve the situation of this particular group of young people. To tear up the secondary school law would rather be very serious social and humanitarian problems.
