i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-2	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that the Police Authority acts in such a way that its impartiality cannot be called into question. He has also asked how I and the government intend to act in the future in the event of similar events so that it is not perceived by the population as supporting criminal activities. The police, as well as others carrying out public administration tasks, shall take into account the equality of all persons before the law and respect the objectivity and impartiality of their activities. This is absolutely fundamental and follows the form of government. Thomas Morell believes that the police may have failed in impartiality at the demonstration in Stockholm on 3 June. In general, I have great confidence that the police are impartial and, in addition, act in such a way that it cannot be called into question. The policy authority's routine after an event that Thomas Morell has reacted to is to investigate the matter in special order. The event has also been reported to the Parliamentary Ombudsmen. Therefore, as Minister of State, I should not speak any further about the incident. However, I await the outcome of the review. It is a democratic right to demonstrate. However, we are currently in a pandemic where we need to reduce the spread of infection, and so there has been a ban on public gatherings and public events involving more than 50 participants for some time. As I understand Thomas Morell, he means that one can get the impression that I supported a demonstration with far more than 50 participants. He seems to have missed that on the contrary, I have been very clear that the temporary ban on holding major public gatherings and public events applies and should be observed.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-6	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Mikael Damberg for his answer. What happened on 3 June was that far more than 50 people gathered in Stockholm. Then there have been some more demonstrations around the country. The right of demonstration is very important, and you can't thumb it on. In the present situation, however, one must question the fact that a permit was given at all when one could imagine that there would be so many people. I note that I did not receive a clear answer from the Minister to my questions. I have had many contacts with my former police colleagues. They are both critical and sad about what happened. One of them commented: Who should we kneel for next — a speeding driver, a drunk driver, a rapist, or even a murderer? The disappointment of this policeman was evident in this context. You could take on the disappointment. There's a deal in the police: protect, help and make things right. It is extremely important for the police to be impartial in everything they do, so that the police's actions towards civil society can never ever be called into question. The police are Parliament's ultimate tool for maintaining law and order. So it was an unfortunate situation there on 3 June, when a policeman joined the demonstrators and tied a fist and stretched it up. It has caused many to react. They've got the feeling the police took a stand. I can't let the police do that. The police must be completely impartial at all times. After all, it was possible to curb this right of demonstration. There is, according to both the government form and the law of order, the possibility and the scope to limit it when we have the situation that we have and people die around the country. We can follow developments in Norrbotten right now, where so many people are being cared for in the healthcare sector that they have difficulty in coping with these severely ill patients. When you look at the pictures from the demonstrations on Sergels Torg and around Stockholm you can see that people were very close to each other. The police also hugged the protestors, which gets very strange. The police do not follow the recommendations of the Public Health Agency. It may be difficult to follow them in the performance of their duties. If you arrest someone, you have to touch this person. But you shouldn't voluntarily go hugging protestors. Then it'll be very strange. There is the wrong signal from the police that they do not care about the recommendations that have actually gone out to reduce the spread of infection in society, which is extremely important, above all, to show respect for those who work in the healthcare sector – ambulance staff and those who work in intensive care – where people literally die in the hands of health professionals. Then society must show strength and also act to reduce the spread of infection. The police have an extremely important role to play here. This picture is sprained today.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-13	Madam President, I would like The police department has commented on what happened. It wrote: The values of the Political Authority generally support human rights and equal value for all. At the same time, police officers must also act impartially at public gatherings. Now there is an evaluation of the event that I commented on in my interpellation response. This is a difficult interpellation debate, because, as a minister of state, I should not have any views on how the authority applies, for example, the permit to carry out demonstrations. It is an authority decision that the authority takes, and it would be extremely inappropriate if the government commented on it or had opinions if the authority were to do right or wrong in the individual application of law. In addition, the interpellant wants me to actually participate in a discussion about an individual police action in a demonstration, which is also not particularly appropriate for me as a minister of state to do. There are mechanisms with which I feel very confident – that you also evaluate whether everything has gone right and that it can be corrected afterwards if things have gone wrong. I think it's a good order. If we begin to politicise this and I am drawn into a discussion that I, as a minister of state, should have views on the actions of individual police officers, the limit will be moved when politics should interfere in individual matters. This time it was a demonstration. Next time, it could be an intervention. A third time it could be a passport matter or something else. This, I think, is a dangerous trend that we have seen in many other European countries, where politics engages in the application of law in a way that I think is inappropriate. I therefore believe that we must be restrictive about what kind of discussion we encourage and what we not only say as a minister but also how we, as a Member of Parliament, or how the Riksdag, choose to act on individual matters. I think it is important to stick to principles and legislation when talking about these issues. Generally speaking, I can say that the Swedish police authorities handle a huge number of demonstrations and public events for a year. Some go very peacefully, and everyone follows rules and laws. Sometimes it breaks laws. On this occasion, the commander chose to dissolve the event because he broke the rules for a maximum of 50 participants. In general, I have confidence in the Swedish police and that there are mechanisms that can handle problems as well. This will easily become a matter of trust. Are Swedish police developing in the right or the wrong direction today? Does confidence in Swedish police increase or decrease? In fact, confidence in the Swedish police has almost never been as great as it is right now. We have seen a sharp increase in recent years. In some way, therefore, the Police Authority is doing the right thing at the moment, and the individual police officers are acting in a way that also raises public confidence in general. As Minister responsible for the Police Authority, I would like to stress in such a discussion that confidence in the Swedish police is increasing. I think it has to do with being very aware of your role in society – and that you also have systems to follow up if something ever goes wrong.
i-8P1q5SsUPLWD172Vmbn1d7	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Mikael Damberg! It is not a question of either parliament or government going in and directing police action in individual cases. That's not what this is about. It is a question of the police as an authority – and then we have the individual officials out there – acting in such a way that it is never possible to question the impartial part of their duties. I myself have been in uniform for 12 years, and it was extremely important that it could not ever be called into question that they acted on the basis of the laws that govern the business. When I was active in the Motormännens Riksförbund and worked a lot on road safety issues, even this was up for assessment by the County Police Commissioner – whether my involvement in the Motormännens Riksförbund was compatible with my service in the traffic police. So sensitive is that question. With regard to what happened in Stockholm on 3 June, we are not talking about the individual policeman, we are talking about the authority. Each official is a representative of the authority, and it must never be questioned how to act. Clear and resolute action must be taken against what is contrary to the law, and in this case it was a violation of the law when more than 50 people gathered. There is also the possibility for the government to act and restrict freedom of assembly in such a situation. It is even in the form of government, and it is stated in the Charter of Order that this can be limited. It is not a question of restricting people's ability to demonstrate, because it does not restrict individual freedom of expression. It must never be mentioned that we are intervening in it. But when we have the situation we have with the spread of infection in society, where people actually die, we have to think a little bit about how we should do to slow down the spread of the disease. That demonstrations are not the best way we can agree on. Today, there are a lot of variations to put forward an opinion – you can start some form of digital demonstration or anything. Today, there is every opportunity to present your message without endangering other people and helping to spread infection in society. Chapter 1 of the form of government. Paragraph 9 states:, Courts, administrative authorities and others performing public administration tasks must take into account the equality of all persons before the law and observe objectivity and impartiality in their activities. It is a crudely important text, and it must never be called into question. The police shall act in such a way as to have confidence in the measures taken. Since the police have a capital of violence that can be used against people, it must never be questioned how the police act out there. Nor should it be called into question whether the police take a stand for one or the other, but the police should be the legislator's ultimate tool for maintaining law and order. With regard to the case of 3 June, there were shortcomings in this way of action, and it actually starts with the authorisation of that demonstration. There was an opportunity to brake. There was an opportunity to use the legislation to prevent this.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-28	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the government has acted and limited the freedom of demonstration in Sweden during the pandemic: we have set a limit so that a maximum of 50 people can participate in demonstrations and general gatherings in Sweden. It's had an effect. It has also had a normative effect on other types of activity, so I think it has been one of the more important measures we have taken in this pandemic. It has therefore been aimed at reducing the spread of infection, and it is possible for us to act. It gets tricky, however, because the interpeller claims that errors have been made in the licensing process – that there were other ways to act in the licensing of this demonstration. That is exactly what I do not think is appropriate. It is not suitable for me as a minister, and it is also a little on the border whether the Riksdag should enter and have definite views on how authorities apply law. Then it goes away, and then we get a completely different system from the one where we make decisions on laws that apply to the authorities – for example, the limit of 50 people, which we decided on. It is about whether or not, through our political debates, we should seek to influence the Authority, and I would rather not do so. So I try to stay away from it. That is why this debate is going to be a bit difficult, because I think the Constitution is quite important on this point. It is constitutional that people are allowed to demonstrate, and now we have restricted the freedom of demonstration to a maximum of 50 people during the pandemic. We must do this according to the Constitution, but another important principle laid down in the Constitution is that of the independence of the administration. According to it, no authority – nor the parliament or the decision-making body of a municipality – may decide how an administrative authority should decide in a particular case on a matter relating to the exercise of authority against an individual or a municipality or on a matter relating to the application of law. That is where I think we should try to be careful in both the parliament and the government. Generally speaking, I have great confidence in the Police Authority. Confidence in it has increased in recent years, and I would like it to continue to increase now that we are expanding the Police Authority with more employees all over Sweden. I think that's important. The management of public gatherings during the pandemic has gone very well until the last demonstrations, and the police have hardly had to intervene. We have seen problems in many other countries with the police having to go in quite hard at different times because people have not followed the instructions, recommendations and guidelines that exist in society, and that has not been done in Sweden. Now we have had some demonstrations where the police authorities have seen that violations have taken place, and then the demonstrations have also been dissolved. The police authority has made it clear that from now on there will be a more restrictive view of licensing as well. I'm not going to review it, but I'm going to state that the Police Authority has the opportunity to be that way according to the current regulations.
i-NvRjhrwgbVtuLzFrGaCH8D	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Mikael Damberg! The law of order is clear in this respect. It is not a question of us going in and steering and amending or amending the legislation – it already says that we can ban gatherings to combat the epidemic. That is, of course, what is so extremely important right now, that we prevent the spread of infection in society so that we end up with the problem we have. On the Swedish Public Health Agency's website it says that everyone in Sweden – it includes each individual – has a responsibility to prevent dissemination. Further down, it is stated that all operations in Sweden are obliged to take measures to reduce the risk of contamination based on the Swedish Public Health Agency's recommendations. Here the police have an extremely important role, and I would say that confidence in the police got a sprain because of the actions of an individual official. The very fact that someone is hugging protestors and kneeling before them does not demonstrate the strength of the authority you can actually expect. It also runs counter to the Swedish Public Health Agency's recommendations regarding how each of us should act to prevent the spread of infection so that we overcome the infection. That is why it is extremely important for the police to act in a credible way. Now there is an investigation of the individual, and we should not interfere with it. Instead, the discipline unit has a job ahead of it, and we will see what it lands in. But for the Police Authority it is extremely important that you constantly act in such a way that you are not questioned by the exercise of authority you practice. If the police do not follow the recommendations of the Public Health Agency, there will be two messages, and that is very unfortunate in the situation we find ourselves in.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-37	Madam President, I would like In general, I think that the Police Authority has handled the pandemic in an excellent way. One has had a difficult task in a situation where one should both reduce the spread of infection and ensure that constitutional rights can be exercised. Until recently there were demonstrations in Sweden on a few occasions. The organizers did a great job. There was a lot of distance, and there was no need for intervention from the Police Department. However, at a few of the major demonstrations that degenerated, there were groups that seized the opportunity to create fighting and rioting and engage in general damage when people gathered in this way to demonstrate against racism and police violence in the United States. This is being prosecuted – the police have arrested some people, and above all a lot of video material has been studied in order to hold these perpetrators to account. I think that's good. Finally, we should also remember that anti-racism is not just an opinion when it comes to the police's mission, but anti-discrimination and the equality of everyone before the law is part of the police's formal mission. It comes from the Constitution, and I think it is important that this is pointed out in a debate such as this.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-40	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that there are enough firefighters for the summer and whether there are plans to commission MSB to support the municipalities in the recruitment of part-time firefighters. She has also asked whether I am taking any other measures to facilitate part-time firefighters. It is of great importance that Sweden has a good ability to carry out effective rescue operations in the event of large-scale fires and other accidents. The municipal emergency services, together with other stakeholders, carried out good efforts under demanding conditions to extinguish the forest fires in the summer of 2018. At the same time, fire management showed that there are areas to develop for a more efficient civil protection capability in the future. The municipalities have taken several measures following the forest fires in 2018 to strengthen their ability to effectively manage large-scale rescue operations. For example, many rescue services have increased their ability to quickly pool rescue resources in the event of large-scale fires and other accidents through collaboration. At the same time, it is important that there are emergency facilities that can quickly be in place and start an operation. This is crucial for effective rescue operations. It is therefore of great importance that municipalities are given good opportunities to support their civil protection activities. Several important proposals have been made from the 2017 civil protection investigation and the 2018 forest fire investigation to enable municipalities' civil protection services to carry out rapid and effective rescue operations in collaboration. A number of the proposals concern the local authorities' ability to provide civil protection services. On the basis of the proposals from the investigations, the Government has presented the proposal in June this year for a more efficient municipal civil protection system to strengthen society's overall capacity for fire and other emergency rescue operations. Among other things, the proposal proposes that all municipalities should have a permanent role in overall management of civil protection activities, that MSB – instead of the county administrative boards – should supervise the municipalities' preventive and civil protection activities, and that in some cases MSB should be able to prioritise and allocate available reinforcement resources. The other proposals from the investigations that do not require legislative changes, such as that MSB should support the provision of part-time firemen by municipalities, are currently being prepared in the Government Office. In order to maintain and strengthen the state's supporting capacity in large-scale rescue operations, MSB has received SEK 65 million in 2019 and SEK 15 million annually from 2020. MSB has therefore been able to improve its ability to assist the municipal emergency services with reinforcement resources when the municipalities' own resources are not sufficient, for example with materials for forest fire extinguishing and helicopters and shoveling planes for fire extinguishing. In addition, MSB has been added SEK 34 million in 2018 and an additional SEK 36 million in 2019 for its educational activities in order to meet the needs of civil protection. MSB has thereby increased the number of training places for part-time firefighters from around 550 places in 2017 to 770 places in 2019 and 2020. MSB has also, together with SKR, strengthened its support to the municipalities in their work to support the civil protection organisation with part-time firefighters, including through national recruitment campaigns. The government has thus taken a series of measures to improve society's ability to deal with large-scale fires and other accidents in both the short and long term. The government will continue to monitor closely the development of society's overall civil protection capabilities and will take the necessary steps if necessary. At the same time, it is of great importance that the municipalities themselves take the necessary measures to ensure effective civil protection activities throughout the country.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-49	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Damberg for his reply. On SMHI's forest fire risk map it looks very orange and red and very hot in the next few days. It is therefore large, very large or extremely large forest fire risk. The second map, the forest fire hazard map n HBV, which shows the water content of the soil layers that are most important for the shoe gsbrand hazard, shows that the degree of dehydration in the soil is very large. This is where you see the vegetation's water supply and water content, and it is therefore of great importance for the ignition risk in forests and soils. We have already seen a number of different fires – last weekend in Ockelbo and the other week between my municipality of residence Haninge and neighbouring municipality Huddinge. The fact that we are going to have enough people in civil protection feels really important, and that is important right now. It's kind of burning in the knots, if you're gonna try to be funny. We need a good alert. We saw it during the big fire in Västmanland in 2014, during all fires in 2018 and in connection with the storm Alfrida in 2019. There are several crises that have really demonstrated the importance of a functioning preparedness in society. Even now during the current pandemic, Madam President, we can see that preparedness is very important. As the Minister mentioned in his reply, there have been a number of much-needed improvements in the municipalities, and that is a good thing. Nevertheless, I am concerned, although many municipal rescue services have increased their cooperation and despite what the government is proposing in the new bill that came on 16 June. It doesn't start to apply until next year, and it's finally about people here and now. These are people who are going to put out these fires or save those who are drowning. They are the ones who are supposed to do the job, and they are the ones who in many cases risk their own lives. They are the ones that must be available, and they must be available now – not after next year. They must be here this summer and in the fall. In total, there are nearly 16,000 firefighters in Sweden, of whom almost 11,000 are part-time firefighters. Around the country there are already great vacancies. There is now concern that part-time firefighters who lose their main job will leave the emergency services because the rules in the unemployment fund allow people who become unemployed to lose their remuneration precisely because they have this emergency response mission. Then maybe they'll drop out of their part-time fire department assignment, and we can't actually do that. We need them right now. SKR and the trade unions Brandmännens Riksförbund, Kommunal och Vision have submitted a letter to the government demanding changed a-cassage rules for these people to be exempted so that they can continue to be part-time firefighters. Is this something that Minister Damberg could mention? How does the whole government view it? In theory, decisions could already be made to be a little proactive for the summer, which we are already in. In order to solve the problem the year out, part-time firefighters could be exempt from the a-cassette rules.
i-MVh7NZLxQWhbjJfAkRjuaa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an important interpellation! Now the forest fire season is before us. We've seen very hot days, and we've seen a little too little precipitation. We see strong risks of forest fires in large parts of Sweden, so this is an important issue. We have mentioned that the state can make efforts on the margin to reinforce this, as with the at least ten helicopters that started to fly last year and which were of great importance and were in place quickly. They don't make the forest fires that big. These helicopters are still here this year. Now we also have two stepping planes that MSB can call off within the framework of EU cooperation. In fact, we are only paying 10% to become a hub in northern Europe for this type of aviation resources for Europe, which I think is very wise and smart use of resources. We have also reinforced with Rachel's resources, because there were problems with communication equipment in the event of large fires. We have strengthened our management capacity; many municipalities have merged. We have also reinforced with depots in more places in Sweden, so that there will be hose. We have done this so that there can be an overdrive to put in when there are large fires. But the basic job is done by the municipal emergency services; it is they who do the big job in all fires. We talk a little too little about them, I'd say. That is why the new legislation we have proposed addresses some of the systemic issues that I think municipal civil protection has really asked for answers for the future. I really want to underline what Anstrell says, that part-time firefighters are the backbone of Swedish rescue services in large parts of Sweden. Outside the larger cities, it is part-time firefighters who carry emergency services around Sweden. We have asked the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness what the level of preparedness is when it comes to providing personnel for the summer. Their assessment at the moment is that the staff supply is good. It is clear that we could have a situation in which, due to the pandemic, we are experiencing a significant increase in sick leave that could be exhausting. But the municipalities state that they have plans and processes to deal with this, so the message we are currently receiving from MSB is that there is still a readiness for the summer. What we do on the part of the state is, as it says in the answer, that we prepare if we are to change the instruction to MSB. It is more to do what MSB is doing today more long-term. Today, information campaigns are being carried out with municipalities to recruit part-time fire brigades, and we have increased the number of training places for part-time firefighters. It may still not quite reach the optimal levels, I would say. But we have strengthened the recruitment and do so in more places around Sweden so that we can support the part-time fire brigades in Sweden. One thing that is not a political issue is the new collective agreement that has been decided by SKR together with the parties. There, part of the challenges of part-time firefighters are dealt with, such as having an employer and still having the right to walk away and how this will work around Sweden. We have seen a social development with fewer large industries, which was previously the big base for supporting part-time firemen. Now I will not go into detail into the new collective agreement, but the idea was to have both a crisis preparedness and also to open up for municipal activities to be more compatible with the task of part-time firefighter. I think it is a very wise way to go to strengthen civil protection in Sweden in the long term with part-time firefighters that people can combine employment in municipal activities with activities as part-time firefighters. This is something of what we have done. But this is an issue that we are following very closely, because there are also risks with the pandemic that is going on. I will return to that in my next speech.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Damberg, for your answer. Yes, Swedish rescue services are mainly built on part-time fire brigades and especially in sparsely populated areas, just as the Minister was in charge. We seem to agree that this is a very important function in society, and I think that everyone agrees on that. Then the problem is how to solve the need for several part-time firefighters. The Minister said that the staff supply is good, but I still feel that there are a lot of people who have great vacancies. Last autumn, the Firemen's R.I.K. Association said that over 70% of the country's fire stations were missing, which is a fairly high figure, and I still get reports that there are large vacancies. The mission of these people who are actually out every day, evening and night is to put out fires, but it can also be intervention in traffic accidents – first aid operations. And this summer, when very many Swedes are home, I think unfortunately we may need part-time firemen even more for such things too. SKR reports that they see examples of emergency services that may lose up to one third of their workforce and that the staffing situation is at risk of becoming acute as early as this summer and even in the autumn. I think it's scary. We know how much damage a major fire can cause, and we also know how important it is to be able to be on site early in some accidents. I'm just saying drowning or cardiac arrest-- it's about minutes. Madam President, I would like It is already difficult to recruit firefighters. Minister Damberg refers to a national recruitment campaign at MSB, and it was great. But I really don't think that's enough. When it is already difficult to recruit today, you really must avoid getting rid of those you already have. I don't want it leaking like a sieve. More efforts are then needed to make recruitment easier. There are a lot of different things to look at, such as organisational cultures in the various emergency services and gender equality, which we already know is bad. But what are the municipalities doing about this, and how does the government ensure that things are really going in the right direction? Unfortunately, the small stakes that have been made have not given much effect. Another important question is whether there is decent material for everyone, including those who work part-time, and how to ensure that they have the right material. Then I think about the requirement for employment. There seems to be almost as many different requirements for new employment as the number of emergency services. Although there is a national education via MSB, it does not mean that the requirements for the same mission are equal across the country. This means that there will be an enormous sluggish labour market for firefighters. Is this something that one could look at nationally, for example, to make it easier for the country's 290 municipalities together with SKR? C driving licence specifically for emergency services might also be something. I wonder if the Minister could say a little more about concrete proposals on how to make it easier for Sweden's municipalities to recruit more part-time firemen.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-80	Madam President, I would like I think it is incredibly important that we continue to work when municipalities, because it is the municipalities that are responsible for this activity and who know what challenges there are locally. There can be different challenges in different parts of the country, such as how working conditions work together with the industry you have in the municipality, how to set schedules and how to set up work. With the bill, we from the state side take a more integrated national approach to this business. We also move, according to our proposal, supervision to MSB. Although the county administrative boards are helpful in this work with their knowledge of local and regional conditions, I think it is good that there is an increased equivalence in supervision, so that there is some form of common minimum level for civil protection. There is, of course, a concern that, with the cooperation structures that are emerging, we will have municipalities that may not make the basic investments required in civil protection in order for it to measure up. When it comes to summer, it is clear that there is a strained staffing situation right from the beginning in parts of the rescue services in Sweden, so there is no peace and joy with the staffing everywhere in Sweden. What we can see is that covid-19 and the pandemic have in any case not significantly impaired the ability of civil protection to intervene and act. The municipalities also report to MSB that they have plans for a worse location, so they will easily change, make priorities and make extra efforts, which can be important to do if it becomes a really difficult summer. We have had a meeting from the Government Office and will have more meetings with SKR with several linked to the unemployment issue. It is not really a new issue; it has existed for a long time. The different a-cassages apply the rules a little differently. There are not the same problems everywhere right now, but there are groups that risk getting a little caught up with these rules. Only a few weeks ago, we received the major inquiry into a new unemployment insurance policy, which is to be based on income, and how it should be designed. Then we have the request for an exception for part-time firemen. We are continuing discussions with SKR about what they are doing now for the summer, because there are lead times in this so I think the municipalities themselves must act proactively this summer. Above all, we must find a long-term solution for part-time firefighters who will be fine, so that there is a system that works over time. We also look at whether we can give MSB a further clarified mission to be more long-term in its efforts to support the municipalities' work on recruitment and gender equality, which was raised by the interpellant. Sometimes it gets strange when we talk about the problem of recruiting for emergency services in Sweden when we see what the gender balance looks like. Then we understand that we have a fairly large recruitment potential in Swedish civil protection with more women who should get into the business. It is important to have the long-term thinking with us when we work on these questions, because otherwise we will just patch and fix here and now. We must create structures that are sustainable over time, and then recruitment must be broadened to civil protection around Sweden. I can assure the interpellant that this is a question that I am following. We are carrying out a major renovation of Swedish preparedness right now. We started it last year and are completing it this year, and we will now continue with legislation that tightens the requirements for civil protection in the country. This is an issue that I will be following with great interest in the future, and if further action is needed, we are prepared to do so.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-90	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Thanks also for the new bill! It will really be summer's reading on the beach. It's great with a lot of suggestions in the future, but we're facing a lot of problems already now and stood with them already last summer and 2018 and so on. Could the Minister mention anything about the proposals that could be more concrete in order to support the provision of part-time firemen by the municipalities, the proposals that the Minister initially told us are currently being prepared in the Government Office? When does the Minister think we will have the opportunity to take note of these proposals? It is good to continue discussions with SKR. But there is a fire in the knots; there are problems here and now. This week looks very red on SMHI's map. Are we going to see any change in the a-cassage rules already now? The Minister was at a long-term common minimum level. It sounds good and interesting, and I appreciate the government's work so that we have something more to consider. Being a hub in northern Europe also sounds great. But as I said, there is much left, and as I was in the past, it is the individual person who is out there doing this. Can we make sure that man gets better help this summer?
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-96	Madam President, I would like I am somewhat formalistic in the sense that, since it is the municipalities that are responsible for civil protection, they must also take responsibility for the provision of personnel. The state cannot ignore that and take over this responsibility, for it will never be possible. On the other hand, the state can contribute, and I am absolutely sure that the interest in civil protection increases when the state provides helicopter resources, diving aircraft and more depots with materials around Sweden. In addition, we work with management support for complicated events and to introduce Rachel systems to a greater extent so that the mistakes 2018 are not repeated. Last year and the year before, we worked a lot to get up the level of training of part-time firefighters, who provide the system with part-time firefighters in the long term. This is an important issue that has been important for this year. I don't want to exaggerate the mission to MSB. All missions to the agency are important. Rather, it is about institutionalising the mission and making it more long-term. Already today they work with training and advice and are involved in the national recruitment campaigns. They have also helped SKR to develop the website blandidsbrandman.nu, which SKR manages. It is therefore a question of ensuring that this work is long-term and structured. But here and now it is the principal municipalities that have to make efforts, because when the state reinforces its abilities the municipalities also have to jacket up. However, we are prepared to look at efforts that can be made in the short term, and here the dialogue with SKR continues.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-100	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me whether I intend to raise structural racism with the US Government. Svenneling rightly notes that the US is an important partner for Sweden in many foreign policy issues. On the other hand, his view that this would make the government less inclined to criticise the United States is unfounded. I would like to start by saying that the government is following with concern what is happening in the United States. Freedom of expression and assembly, as well as free and independent media, are fundamental prerequisites for democracy. Assault by police and other law enforcement authorities risks weakening confidence in society's institutions. George Floyd's death reminds us of the existence of structural racism. The demonstrations and protests in the United States show an increasing commitment to this by an increasing number of groups and individuals. Racism knows no national boundaries. It must be fought by all of us, at home and through our common international organisations. Each country has its history and challenges and thus its journey to make. The ways of tackling the problems will differ from one place to another. In democracies, it is the citizens who demand responsibility from those who decide. When the cabinet secretary recently met the American ambassador, they spoke, among other things, about recent events in the United States. Not least, they maintained how events underscore the value of democracy and the opportunity for people to make their voices heard without the risk of life and health. During the extraordinary debate on racism in the UN Human Rights Council on 17 June, Sweden also gave a national speech stressing the importance of continuing to combat racism in all its forms. I have also commented on the situation myself, and the Nordic countries did so together when we met US Foreign Minister Mike Pompeo over video link at the EU's last Foreign Minister's meeting earlier this month. Sweden supports the statement made by 16 EU Member States within the framework of the OSSE, and we wholeheartedly support the statement by the UN Secretary-General in response to the protests in the United States, in which he calls for restraint and efforts to increase social cohesion, underscores diversity as an asset and clearly rejects racism. The United States is a stable democracy with free media, an enormous number of civil society organisations, a lively democratic dialogue and a functioning judiciary. These social functions are now being tested. The government has faith in the US's ability to deal with police violations and violations of human rights in a legally secure manner.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-109	Madam President, I would like When police officer Derek Chauvin pressed his knee against George Floyd's neck, that was the start of widespread protests against racism around the United States and the world under the banner Black Lives maths. Losing one's life is the ultimate consequence of racism. It affected George Floyd in the United States, just as it affected those who were murdered by Peter Mangs and John Ausonius here in Sweden. But the murder of George Floyd is far from the only example. We have seen both historically and in the near future how racism and brutality affect blacks in the United States. Black Live's math protests have had an enormous blast force with demonstrations in over 2,000 U.S. cities. We are two white people in power who have never experienced racism against us themselves. That is why we must listen to those who are exposed to racism every day in Sweden as well as in the United States and around the world. Racial discrimination in the United States is based on centuries of oppression, discrimination and slavery. Although the laws have changed, the racist structures are still visible. One example is the great American prison system. In the 1970s there were 300 000 prisoners. Today, 2.3 million Americans are in prison. Every fourth prisoner in the world is in the United States, and a large proportion of them are African-Americans. Once you've been imprisoned, your civil rights disappear in several states. One right that can be taken away from you is your right to vote, which contributes to increased marginalisation in society. Unlike previous presidents, current president Donald Trump has reinforced racial tension. In 2017, riots in Charlottesville, Virginia, led to the death of a woman when an extreme right-wing perpetrator deliberately drove right into a crowd of peaceful demonstrators. Although it was clear that the racist groups were responsible for the use of violence against both protestors and police, President Trump chose to highlight the use of violence on both sides. Trump has in several contexts, including during election meetings, worked against Black live maths. After the murder of George Floyd, President Trump, instead of calling for calm, has said that he intends to deploy a military force to deal with the unrest. Especially remarkable scenes took place on Lafayette Street in Washington, D.C. when the street was filled with tear gas and violently cleared of demonstrators in order to create a photo opportunity for the President. Sweden has its history of using military force against peaceful demonstrators, namely the shootings in Ådalen in 1931 when five workers were killed. It is therefore, in principle, forbidden to use military force against demonstrators in Sweden. In the United States, by means of a special decision, the President can use the military against protestors, for example. Although it is very rare, a few times in history have happened. At the same time, the U.S. police are largely militarized in the sense that they have riot equipment, water cannons, tear gas and rubber bullets. In today's interpellation, I have asked the Foreign Minister whether she intends to raise the issue of structural racism with the US Government. I am pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had talks with the US ambassador in Sweden, although it was held at state secretarial level. I am also in favour of Sweden raising structural racism with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should now consider what Sweden can do more. If Trump is using the military against demonstrators, shouldn't we be reviewing our arms exports? If Sweden is pushing for Drive for Democracy, shouldn't Swedish democracy assistance go to human rights activists in the United States? And what more can be done in Sweden to make it visible and counteract structural racism? More on this I intend to address in my next speech. Madam President, I would like Seven minutes of this debate have now passed. Police officer Chauvin Chauvin is still holding his knee firmly pressed against George Floyd's neck. He will do so for another minute and 46 seconds. "I can't breathe, I can't breathe," says George Floyd 16 times before he dies. George Floyd was killed by police brutality. We now have the opportunity to make an impression so that his death leads to real change.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-124	Madam President and the Minister. A special thanks to Håkan Svenneling, who has made this important interpellation. Robert Fuller, 24 years old, was found hanging from a tree two weeks ago in Palmdale, California. The day before, another unidentified black man was found hanging from a tree in Fort Tryon Park, New York. About ten days earlier, the black man Malcolm Harsch had been found hanging from a tree in Victorville, California. Unfortunately, the list is considerably longer than these three people. All reportedly, the police have killed themselves, but anyone who has not lived under a stone in recent years understands that something else is behind these murders. George Floyd, Riah Milton, Dominique Fells, Tony McDade, Nina Pop, Yahira Nesby, Brianna Hill, Bailey Reeves, Kiki Fantroy, Zoe Fantroy, Tracy Single, Bubba Jefferson, Jazmine Barne, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Hill, Tamir Rice, Jazmine Barnes, Michael Brown, Breonna Alton, Taylor Sterling, Eric Garner and Philando Castille. These are just some of those who have fallen victim to the racism and police brutality that take place in the United States every day against the black population but are also highly alive in many other countries. Moreover, the majority of the police officers responsible for these murders, like almost all other countries, have gone free and can continue to expose people to these brutal acts. While people in the United States and large parts of the world rise to take a stand against the terrible racism that befalls our black siblings, we see how American state power brutally suppresses peaceful demonstrations and how right-wing extremists are nourished by a president who himself is a thorough-bred fascist and racist. Since the start of protests in defence of black people's lives, more people have been murdered by the police, about a dozen. Media in place to monitor the demonstrations have been attacked by police officers. A state of emergency has been introduced in a number of cities, and anyone who follows what is happening has seen that the American state and police forces have in principle declared war on their own population. I cannot call this democracy. Madam President, I would like Almost two weeks ago, the investigation was completed in connection with the murder of Olof Palme. Although he was a complicated politician on many issues, there was one thing you could always count on: He never turned a blind eye to the apartheid that prevailed in South Africa or the unjust American attacks on Vietnam, he did not hesitate when it came to taking a stand against the murderer Franco in Spain and he always sided with the people on these questions. Since then, Swedish foreign policy has changed and leaves much to be desired. In many cases, Sweden has gone from being a voice for peace to becoming an echo of the White House. In this case, I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has taken a stand, but the fact is that if these things happened in some other countries, Sweden would have acted harder and faster and had a longer-term plan. But with regard to the United States in particular, the feeling is that Palme's clear positions have turned into sometimes slightly watered down statements and tweets. I wonder: what further action does the Minister for Foreign Affairs intend to take in this regard, in addition to the talks held and the position taken by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to show that black life plays a role – that black live's maths?
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-131	Madam President, I would like It is important that we, as democracy, are able to stand up for human rights in countries where citizens are unable to make their own voices heard without risking life and health and where the judiciary is not independent. The government does so and intends to continue doing so. Violence by the police and other law enforcement authorities is particularly serious because it risks weakening confidence in social institutions, and this shakes the foundations of democratic society. George Floyd's death reminds us of the existence of structural racism. The demonstrations and protests in the United States, to which ever-widening populations are joining, show an increasing commitment to this by an increasing number of groups and individuals. They clearly express a desire to overcome the problems. But the United States is not an authoritarian regime, nor will it be treated as such. The United States is a democracy and a rule of law with functioning institutions. The American Constitution provides a comprehensive protection of human rights, and respect for them is good. The American democratic system is characterised by political pluralism and a strong tradition of the rule of law. The United States, like Sweden, has an independent judiciary, which is not open to external influence, either from politicians in their own country or from other countries. This is a fundamental thing for democracy and the rule of law and something that the government fully respects. The government has faith in the United States' ability to deal with the violations in a legally secure manner. This applies regardless of whether infringements come from institutions such as the police or from individuals who use righteous demonstrations as excuses for looting and vandalism. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the few countries that regularly review the human rights situation in different countries. The only other country that does this is the United States. This means that every two years the Swedish government publishes a report on the human rights situation in the United States as well. The report is also published and communicated to US representatives. External criticism is not always welcome, but the forms of Sweden's reports on human rights make it possible to do so regularly and undramatically. This is an important tool that we protect and come back to.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-137	Madam President, I would like Racism knows no national boundaries, said the Foreign Minister in his response to me. Neither our present nor our history here in Sweden is free from racism. Sweden was also a colonial power, we were part of the slave trade and we had a racist view of our own indigenous Sami. By understanding and recognising historical racism linked to colonialism, we better understand the racism that exists in society today. Sweden's role in the transatlantic slave trade is hardly affected in school books or in the subject of history. At universities and higher education institutions the subject is hardly addressed either, and there is very little research on the subject. I believe that the government should initiate a White Paper on Sweden's role in the transatlantic slave trade and, on the basis of this White Paper, provide an excuse for the actions committed. The Swedish colony Saint-Barthélemy was often used as a hub between countries that were at war with each other to trade with slaves. Sweden became the neutral party, but not in the positive way we usually are. It was also a long time before our slave trade ended — several other countries went ahead of us. In order to make Sweden's role and responsibility visible, on 9 October, the day on which the last African in Swedish ownership was released in 1847 at the then colony of Saint-Barthélemy, should be made a national memorial day to honour the victims of the Swedish transatlantic slave trade. With these measures, Sweden could go ahead and show the way both to the US and to our world about how to settle with its historical responsibility for structural racism. Madam President, I would like The Left Party also proposes that human rights organisations in the United States, which fight against racism and for the right to abortion, should receive SEK 50 million in annual democracy assistance. The Government's Drive for Democracy initiative risks becoming an air castle if it is thought that money should only go to countries that are not democracies today, while at the same time we see democracy being threatened in several democracies. Our fight for democracy must apply to all countries, including countries that are greater and more powerful than us. Our words about democracy must not only be fine words, but must also result in concrete action. Madam President, I would like The U.S. military is by far the largest military force in the world. Last year, the United States was the country to which Sweden exported the second most weapons worldwide. From a longer perspective over almost 30 years, the United States is the largest recipient of Swedish weapons. Of course, Sweden also imports large quantities of weapons from the United States, but those statistics are a little more unknown than exports. However, we know, for example, that the delivery of the anti-aircraft robot Patriot from the United States to Sweden is currently under way, a billion-dollar deal. The new arms export legislation was developed in the light of the Arab Spring, when peaceful demonstrators demanding democracy met with military and weapons, sometimes exported from Sweden. Therefore, a so-called democracy criterion was introduced to make it more difficult, even if it is possible through loopholes, for exports to countries that might use their military against civilians. Since Donald Trumps's statement, it is clear that this can also happen in the United States. Swedish weapons risk being used against those who want to demonstrate against racism. I wonder how the Minister for Foreign Affairs sees the risk of Swedish arms exports being used for this purpose. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says to me in his reply: ..................................................... I think there are many good reasons to question that belief. We know – it's just to look at any Netflix series about true crime – how common false testimony and accusations are and how the struggle for equal amendment is stopped and opposed in the United States. I think we should criticise democracy in the United States a little more often.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-148	Madam President, I would like I'd like to pick up where I left off last time. We know that there are problems with democracy and police violence in a great many countries around the world. We also know that we take different positions when it comes to different countries. We know, for example, that Sweden takes a certain position when it comes to Saudi Arabia and the United States and a completely different position when it sometimes even gives itself the right to appoint ministers, interim governments and the like, even though people have not chosen them. In this case, it is quite clear that the Swedish Government is looking at the murder of George Floyd and the protests against it in a clear-sighted way. It supports the protests against racism and takes a stand against structural discrimination. But taking a stand in words is one thing, to do something in action is something else. That is where I believe the Swedish foreign policy differs from before. One day the government calls itself anti-racist and says that it stands up for human rights, the second day the United States is very happy to use the weapons in Yemen. We say that we have a feminist government but do nothing really to stop the killings of black women who die of police brutality and racism. I simply mean that the Swedish Government must make up its mind. If you want to go from words to actions – Håkan Svenneling has made several suggestions, and there are even more – it is time to announce it, that you take a stand. Just because it's about a great power doesn't mean that Sweden should continue what has been done in recent decades, namely to be relatively quiet in action.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-152	Madam President, I would like Much of what we are talking about is freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and free and independent media, which are crucial for the exercise of democratic rights and freedoms. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to say a few words about the security of journalists, which has not been mentioned so far in this debate. It is a fact that journalists have been hit very seriously in connection with the demonstrations that have been going on in relation to Black live maths. We also take seriously the police violence that has been perpetrated against working journalists. It is important to note that there are free and independent media in the United States and that freedom of expression there is protected by the Constitution's first amendment. That does not mean that critical voices must not be heard. They will. This is something we have witnessed now. The fact that this would not happen is not true. On the other hand, it is very important that the government stands up for the role of journalists and the media against the misinformation that has occurred in connection with the demonstrations and in international media. Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling proposes that we give democratic assistance to human rights organisations in the United States that fight against racism and for the right to abortion. The fight against racism and the right of women to legal and safe abortion is central to government policy, as is the fight for democracy. You have mentioned the initiative on democracy several times. I can tell you that tomorrow I will have a discussion with Madeleine Albright, a former colleague of mine, where we will review the amount of democracy projects that we have together with the Institute for Democracy. It concerns LGBTQ people's rights, women's rights, SRHR issues, election issues, democracy issues – it's a whole list. However, the OECD and Dac list which countries are eligible for aid as countries. If a country has reached a threshold for what is defined as a high income level for at least three consecutive years, the country as such is no longer eligible for aid under OECD and DAC criteria. We strive for international development cooperation to focus on the least developed countries as a whole but also to have democratic cooperation, which we have with important institutions in the United States. With regard to arms exports, Sweden has one of the most stringent regulations for arms exports. Exports of war material from Sweden are tested on the basis of this regulatory framework. The Riksdag and the Government have established this. The inspection for strategic products is the competent licensing authority. ISP makes an overall assessment and examines each individual export application based on this regulatory framework
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-157	Madam President, I would like I note that the Foreign Minister and I agree that there is structural racism, both here in Sweden and in the United States and in the world as a whole. I think it is a good thing that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has acted in terms of dialogue and the statements we have seen from the Minister for Foreign Affairs towards the United States. The question now is what else can be done. The Secretary of State told me about the meeting tomorrow with Madeleine Albright. Well, that's a welcome thing to say. I think such initiatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are great and really want to give my support to that. Then I think you need to look at more things you could do. I referred to arms exports, and Scotland, for example, has already decided to review its arms exports to the United States. There is a process going on within the UK, which is, of course, a country that may be even closer to the United States than Sweden does. The fact that they have the courage to review their arms exports shows that it is possible. It's very easy to say that you have strict regulations, but if you don't even look at what we've exported to the US military and police-- gun sights, rubber bullets, you name it-- you haven't done your homework either. I also think that a thought should be given to democratic aid for human rights activists in the United States. There are times when we are making democratic efforts in countries that are democracies, such as the Russian-speaking media in the Baltic countries. This is done because you want to support inclusive societies where there is no division between people. The United States is a very divided country with structural racism and an incredible number of people living in poverty – about 80 million people live below the poverty line there. It is not entirely in the remit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but the government needs to look collectively at Sweden's role in the transatlantic slave trade, think about setting up a White Paper and indeed also creating a day of remembrance. It would be a feather in the hat for this government, I think.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-162	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for raising these important issues in an interpellation debate! Svenneling refers to the Scottish Parliament's decision to ban the export of rubber bullets and tear gas to the US police. But the violence that killed George Floyd came not from weapons but from a lack of respect for another person's life. It came from a structural racism and a lack of organisational culture. These are issues that are of a far more profound nature than where the police obtain their material. These are also issues that U.S. public opinion clearly highlights and issues that U.S. authorities and state governments are working increasingly hard to address. Our foreign and security policy, as well as our defence policy, is based on safeguarding and promoting Swedish interests, prosperity and security. In a world in which democracy is increasingly challenged and impoverished, it is crucial that countries that stand up for democracy also stand firmly together, although we do not always have a common understanding on all issues. The fact that a country is a democracy does not by definition mean that challenges are missing, but that means that there are tools to address these challenges. It is based on people being able to make their voice heard. It also means that there are different channels for citizens to air their thoughts and convey their messages in different ways to those in power, both through participation in free and universal elections and through civil society organisations, free media and the opportunity to protest and demonstrate. I think this discussion is extremely important, and I hope it continues, for black live matter, and we should stand up to structural racism.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-168	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me how I have so far acted to bring the EU and the West together to mark the recent developments in Hong Kong and the People's Republic of China's increasingly clear departure from the principle of one country, two systems. In addition, Mr Wallmark has asked me how I view future developments in the region in the event of a weakening of Hong Kong's political autonomy when the security laws are introduced and in the case of continuous threats to Taiwan and the ambitions of the People's Republic of China in the South China Sea. Over the past year, the government has had particular cause to draw attention to the situation in Hong Kong. On several occasions, I and my predecessor have presented the Government's position and work to the Riksdag. I would like to thank Mr Wallmark for the opportunity for today's discussion in the light of recent serious developments. Sweden and the rest of the EU support the principle of one country, two systems to preserve Hong Kong's self-governing position with an independent political and legal system in accordance with Hong Kong's constitution. It is of fundamental importance that the human rights and freedoms granted to Hong Kong residents under this law are fully respected. On 28 May, the Beijing National Congress approved a proposal for national security legislation for Hong Kong. As I have said in Parliament before, I take this decision very seriously. It is contrary to China's international commitments. On 29 May, the EU spoke with the same meaning. At a meeting on the same day in the EU's Foreign Minister's circle, I stressed the importance of the EU responding clearly to developments. In accordance with a decision by a majority in the EU Council, I also raised the issue of sanctions at the meeting. However, it was not supported by any other Member State, as mentioned by the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs Borrell during his press conference after the meeting. The EU spoke before that even after the arrests of representatives of Hong Kong's democracy movement, including the trade union representative Lee Lee-Cheuk-Yan, which took place in April. The EU delegation in Hong Kong was present at the first trial on 18 May. At the second trial, which took place on 15 June, in addition to the EU delegation, Sweden also attended through our Consulate General t. In this connection, I made a statement on the importance of the judicial process taking place in accordance with the rule of law and of trade union organisation being a universal human right. The government is closely following the serious developments and is working towards continued clear EU-wide action. It is very important for the EU to raise the serious developments directly with China's leadership at the forthcoming EU-China summit at the end of June. The government will also support Hong Kong's self-governing position. China's importance for global security is growing. The Government considers that the situation in the South China Sea should be resolved through dialogue in order to find peaceful and cooperative solutions in line with international law, in particular the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclo). The Government urges all parties to comply with the 2016 arbitration award under the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Among other things, the arbitration court ruled that China has no international legal basis for its claims in the areas. It is of great importance that China, or any other state, does not undermine the rule-based world order. Finally, it is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's room for manoeuvre. The government rejects the use of military threats. The contradictions between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan must be resolved peacefully and in a manner consistent with the will of the people of Taiwan. Sweden and the EU have an interest in Taiwan participating in international organisations. We ourselves have good relations with Taiwan in many areas and have an interest in continuing to develop them.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-176	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When discussing and discussing the People's Republic of China and its actions, it is sometimes easy to forget what country we are talking about. Let me therefore, Madam President, quote from a document presented by the government, which has been confirmed by the Swedish Parliament when we held last year's major China debate on 13 December: Political opposition is not allowed. The state apparatus is permeated by the Communist Party. The judiciary is under the control of the Communist Party. Since the Congress of the Communist Party in autumn 2017, the party has a declared ambition to increase its control over all parts of society. ..................................................... I think it is important that we keep coming back in our own memory to what kind of system and type of country China is. That is what should also guide us when we see China acting in the world. It can be anything from how we act at home in our country with an ambassador who spreads vicious statements around us and denies our access to the Swedish citizen Gui Minhai to what we now see internationally in terms of the legislation that the so-called Beijing Parliament has produced and to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers. You can see that the pressure is now increasing on Hong Kong. I also think it is important to see this in its extension – today Hong Kong, tomorrow Taiwan – and the whole security policy climate in the South China Sea. Madam President, I would like I think it is reasonable to say that there are expectations. There are expectations of the Swedish Government and of the Swedish Government, in cooperation with our main allies and partners in the EU, to push ahead with regard to the People's Republic of China and also the People's Republic of China's actions towards Hong Kong and others. It is also important that we do things together, certainly within the framework of the European Union, but also with other countries that are deeply involved and also influenced by the People's Republic of China, such as Australia and Canada. Australia, in the shadow of the pandemic, has pushed the demand to set up an independent investigation and has been punished by the People's Republic of China with various forms of trade restrictions, tariffs and other distinctive measures, to mark against the displeasure. Then it is important that Sweden and the EU stand up for those who fight for freedom and openness in Hong Kong and for those countries in the rest of the world who also feel this pressure from the People's Republic of China. It is important that we all mark that it is not business as usual. Something's happened. The problem, Madam President and the Foreign Minister, is that when you look at the EU's action, you can see a long series of statements from the former High Representative, on 2 October 2019 and on 18 November 2019. The new High Representative has also spoken. But that will be no more than statements. Madam President, I would like Today, the President of China and the leadership of the People's Republic of China meet EU leaders in the form of Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and the Council of Charles Michel at a video conference. It is important to be very clear then – Sweden must also be a driving force for the EU to be clear – when it comes to Hong Kong and other countries that are vulnerable to the People's Republic of China.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-183	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State! I believe that we are all relatively agreed that we are at a crucial point in Hong Kong's history and that the outcome of the time we are living in will have far-reaching consequences for what life in Hong Kong will look like in the longer term. It is important to see that it takes too many Hong Kong residents have their background in protests in the summer of 2015. At that time, a proposal for an electoral reform that the Chinese regime was trying to get through was rejected. It meant that nomination committees could opt out of candidates that Beijing did not like. This would try to govern Hong Kong. This led to the long umbrella revolution, which lasted 79 days and was then brutally defeated by the police. It is in this light that I think we should see the protests that have been going on in Hong Kong for over a year and are still going on. The one-year anniversary has passed. There is a large proportion of Hong Kongers who care about this and who are really struggling. At the same time, we see the weak action of Hong Kong's leader Carrie Lam, who is apparently backed up by Beijing and is their puppet. It is important that we from the Swedish side stand up for the demands that the demonstrators have and support them. It is about creating democracy, justice and respect for human rights. I had the privilege, together with another group of parliamentarians, of meeting Ted Hui, who is a member of the Democratic Party in the Hong Kong Parliamentary Assembly. One example of the harassment of parliamentarians in Hong Kong today – they have the same mission as us – is that security guards, when the new security law was to be debated or voted on, literally dragged Ted Hui out of the Chamber by force. It is a horrifying act which, of course, we must condemn. It shows how far you are prepared to go from Beijing to stop those who stand up for democracy in Hong Kong. We have seen a great deal of unity in the Swedish Parliament about our demands against China. Often the Left Party and the Moderates have found each other and thought the same thing. It is good that this unity exists. At the same time, it is our debate on China that is the basis and that develops our ideas for how to take our relations forward and what Sweden should do. For many things, the United States and, above all, President Trump have taken a very cautious stance. He has not been a very clear advocate of human rights. Nevertheless, it has been the United States that has taken a number of measures. Just as Mr Wallmark was concerned, the role of the EU has been more of a statement on statements, without any clear steps being taken. That is what I think we need to debate more. The Swedish Parliament made it clear that at the last EU Foreign Ministers' Summit, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had to work to lift the sanctions. This is a good example of Sweden pointing out that the EU must act more clearly than simply making statements through the High Representative. It does not matter to the Chinese regime. If we are to stand up for Hong Kong seriously, we need to be clearer in our actions. I would like to say something a little short about Taiwan. Taiwan has become the place where those who have been oppressed in China but also partly in Hong Kong have had to flee in order to still be able to work and write about it. One example is the Swedish journalist Jojje Olsson, who now has his base in Taiwan. That is why it is important to stand up for Taiwan at all times, so that it can continue to be a democracy in the way it is today and so that democracy is not curtailed there too.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-192	Madam President, I would like Since Hans Wallmark concentrates more on China and Håkan Svenneling more on Hong Kong, I take China in this post and Hong Kong in the next, so that it does not get too messy. It is precisely if Hans Wallmark said; China's strengthened international position is affecting more and more questions. I am pleased that we from the Swedish side have a good China debate and a great unity in politics towards China. It is important for the Swedish part. At the same time, the EU's work must also be as united as possible, based on interests and values in support of rules-based and international cooperation and in defence of multilateralism. There is uncertainty about China's medium-term development. China has the ambition to increase its global influence. At the same time, there are a number of internal challenges that they need to address. They have a political system that is not designed to resolve internal conflicts. And given China's size, developments in the country have global consequences. As the government's letter to Parliament shows, we will strive for the EU and like-minded countries to cooperate and act jointly on security and defence challenges that the increased Chinese global influence entails. This applies not least to transatlantic cooperation. China is an active and influential multilateral player and an indispensable partner to address global challenges. At the same time, China often acts in a non-transparent way. They strive in some areas to introduce standards and values that risk undermining the rule-based world order. In recent years, they have strengthened their commitment to the UN and multilateral systems. The withdrawal of the United States from several multilateral organisations is no better. It strengthens China even more. With increased economic weight, China has growing global interests to protect. China is the world's largest importer of a number of raw materials. They are growing in terms of investment, loans and aid provision. They have also taken a stand in the field of defence and security policy, which has been strengthened. Defence spending in China has grown fastest of all major countries in the last 10 years and is today the second largest in the world. In fact, in individual areas China has a leading military capability. We therefore have reason to follow this, not least China's closer cooperation with Russia in the area of defence and security policy. In some areas there is an opportunity to encourage constructive participation by China. We will try to deepen issues such as peace-building, peace-keeping, gender equality, development funding, UN reforms, Agenda 2030 and climate and security. At the same time, I can conclude by saying that in recent weeks I have had bilateral talks with both the Foreign Ministers of Australia and Canada on, among other things, China. It turned out that we have to a large extent a similar analysis and in some cases similar interests.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-200	Madam President, I would like The latter mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs as regards his bilateral contacts with colleagues from Australia and Canada was news to me. It was good news that is fully in line with what I wish to see, namely a high level of activity from both the Swedish and the European sides with countries that are equal-minded. Australia and Canada certainly belong there. This was positive. I believe that the approach to China in all areas, ranging from Hong Kong to the way China acts on the international stage and what we see in the South China Sea, should be based on the principle that it is important that we have an exchange. It is important that we reward good behavior. It is important that we warn against bad behaviour. And it is vital that bad behaviour has consequences. It is therefore important for the EU to indicate that it is not as usual for such measures that have repeatedly been directed against Hong Kong's self-government and the idea of it. This idea is also enshrined in an agreement between the United Kingdom and China, the Anglo-Spanish agreement, on a China, two systems. A China, a system, a party, is getting closer and closer, which is extremely worrying. I therefore wish we could see more action at European level. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister refers to the fact that six out of eight parties on the EU Board sent a mandate for the Foreign Minister to press ahead with or investigate the conditions for a sanction policy against China given what has happened. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated, this was not possible this time. But I think it is essential that it is included in the political and diplomatic toolbox. If conduct is not good, but is even bad, despite warnings, this must have consequences. Madam President, I would like I have nothing against the video conference to be held by the EU leadership with the Chinese leadership. On the contrary, I think that is fundamentally good. It is precisely such occasions that should be used to warn and point out the developments that we see. Therefore, there is every reason to say today that what is happening now and which is directed at Hong Kong is not tolerated and that there will be consequences. It must have consequences for relations between Europe and Sweden. It must also be seen in a broader perspective, as my interpellation was about. Recent and recent years have been the attacks on pro-democracy and the Hong Kong system. In the long run, there is the threat that the next step will be Taiwan. Just as Håkan Svenneling of the Left Party pointed out, Taiwan is today the free island in the immediate vicinity to which many exiles put their hope. They can use it as an oxygenator in the democratic conversation. Furthermore, we see the threat to the South China Sea. China's policy is to claim to have control over various islands and coral reefs and to say that it is Chinese territory. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out that this was contrary to the law of the sea and to a judgment of The Hague in 2016. Furthermore, we are now seeing the border conflicts with India. So there is a great deal to be done in the shadow of the pandemic. Unfortunately, much of it is very negative. This must have consequences.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-209	Madam President, I would like Following the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, the EU showed clear agreement when imposing an arms embargo on China, which is still the case today. The Parliament also showed a great deal of agreement in December, when we were in complete agreement with the position on the letter that the government had submitted to us regarding the work with China. One point we raised in the report was the need to impose sanctions on the human rights violations taking place in Xinjiang – East Turkestan – against the Uighur people in particular. Perhaps as many as 1 million people have been put in various prison camps. For example, the United States is already imposing sanctions against this, although Trump has made some strange statements about the camps. The EU is currently facing major challenges. There is some agreement on China's policy, but we see from the 17+1 and the Belt and Road initiative that China is very actively trying to divide the EU. Here comes the great challenge for the Foreign Minister, that is, to achieve a clear consensus in the future. Sweden needs to be a driving force and to raise a number of proposals on the ways in which the EU could act more clearly, for example in the way it did after the events in Tiananmen Square. So far, we have not really seen any positive effects of the coronapendem on Hong Kong's democracy. People have rather not been able to protest to the same extent as before. I hope that we will be able to see positive effects on China's ambitions for power in the light of the Corona crisis. For Sweden, it is important that we put human rights over trade with China, I think. Having said that, I would like to wish a pleasant summer to the President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and my colleagues in Parliament. Take care of yourselves! This also applies to staff.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-214	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government pays great attention to what is happening in Hong Kong. We have mentioned the Chinese letter several times now. It is very much about us working together with the European Union to have as much opportunity as possible to make demands that China comply with the international legal obligations that exist. I must therefore react to the fact that Mr Wallmark said that the EU Council said that I would push or examine the conditions for sanctions. I would have liked to have examined such conditions. By then, we would probably have had more opportunities to succeed. Since we were all alone, that door was struck again both before China's eyes and before the entire European press force when Borrell chose to point out a country as the only one who wanted it. It would have been more effective if we had had to work in a normal diplomatic way. However, the EU is behind the same principle as Sweden does, namely, a country, two systems, in order to maintain the position of Hong Kong's self-government. One should have not only a political but also a legal system in accordance with the constitution that exists. It is of fundamental importance for the respect of the human rights and freedoms granted to Hong Kong residents. Our foreign authorities in China and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have previously presented the government's view to the national Chinese authorities in both Beijing and Hong Kong. At the EU Foreign Affairs Council on 29 May, I stressed the importance of the EU being clear. I also called on the EU External Action Service (EEAS) to start discussions on the EU's continued overall response – it is a work in progress – and that today's EU-China Summit should be very clear when commenting on the serious developments in Hong Kong. It was also important for Sweden to mark our position on Hong Kong during the trial of 15 people in the democracy movement. The issue has received attention in Sweden and not least in the trade union movement. This applies to all three central trade unions. Not least, at the LO Congress, a very strong statement was made, partly because one of the 15 is the Secretary-General of the HKCTU, that is, their union, Lee Lee Yan. As I said, I made sure that our consul was there at the trial on June 15th. There was the EU as a whole and Sweden. I hope that more of the European Union's countries will choose to be there on other occasions, which, unfortunately, will come. I think it matters.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-220	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a representative of the Left Party and a representative of the Moderates are debating the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong and Taiwan is, I believe, a pretty good illustration of the Swedish attitude towards China, which was also expressed in the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the government's letter of China. I would argue that this report is clearer, more powerful and more representative of what Parliament thinks than the government letter itself. The fact that the EU Council with six out of eight parties gives this type of instruction to the Foreign Minister shows where the political force is on a scale in relation to the People's Republic of China and what it exposes others to. I think it is useful and important for the government to take into account that this is the atmosphere in the Swedish Parliament that it is expressed in six out of eight parties. Madam President, I would like I think it is important that we have Swedish representatives side by side with representatives of the European Union when there are various forms of trials dealing with human rights abuses. That's good. I also think it is important to recall that the EU has structured dialogues with Hong Kong. Then it is important that those who are outside what is controlled by China should also be involved. My interpellation was that we must recognise the danger of what is now happening in Hong Kong. In the next step it is directed towards Taiwan, and in the next step there is further ambition towards the South China Sea and other countries in the region. That is why it is important to have a simple principle: good relationships and good behaviour should be rewarded, bad behaviour should be warned and bad behaviour shown must have consequences. That must be the Swedish line, and that must be the European line.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-223	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for raising this important issue for the interpellation debate. I share the view that it is nice that Håkan Svenneling from the Left Party also wanted to be part of the debate. This shows the breadth of the issue of China in the Swedish Parliament. The China letter and the Foreign Affairs Committee's report state that the EU is a cornerstone of the government's work on issues relating to China. It is of central importance that Sweden and the EU pursue a common, strong and clear China policy. But it is very much better if you really get the EU to do it by using diplomatic means when necessary and if everyone does, so that we are not alone on one issue. We will be calling on China to comply with its international legal obligations and to take responsibility for multilateral cooperation, which is based on rules. This applies to the serious developments in Hong Kong, but also to the situation in the South China Sea and China's action against Taiwan. We take the situation in Hong Kong very seriously, as I have said, and we will continue to support Hong Kong's self-governing position. With regard to the situation in the South China Sea, we believe that the solutions need to be sought through dialogue in order to find peaceful ways forward. It is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. Sweden and the EU have an interest in securing Taiwan's participation in international organisations, including the WHO. The contradictions between Taiwan and China must be resolved peacefully. It is also of great importance that China or any other state does not undermine the rule-based world order.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-227	Madam President, I would like Mr Jomshof has asked me whether I had any knowledge of the widespread cheating and what I intend to do to ensure that it does not happen again. Robert Stenkvist has asked me what information I have received about the selection basis for the PISA report, whether I think it is appropriate for principals to deviate from the rules regarding who should write the PISA test, what measures I take to avoid this in the future and what immediate measures I intend to take to ensure that we can get credible PISA results in the future. Initially, I would like to say that one should be able to rely on a study as large as PISA. Government, parliament and the entire Swedish school system need to have a good basis on pupils' knowledge and quality in comprehensive school in order to be able to make the right decision. PISA is one of several important studies to follow the Swedish knowledge results. The Swedish National Board of Education is responsible for the international knowledge measurements that Sweden participates in, and the OECD has previously reviewed and approved PISA 2018. The Swedish National Agency for Education believes that the study has been carried out in accordance with current OECD guidelines and that there is no reason to question the rise in results among students with Swedish background. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also explained that there may be a lack of foreign born pupils in the selection, which according to the Swedish National Agency for Education can be an effect of failure and exclusions (see PISA 2018. 15-year-olds' knowledge of reading comprehension, mathematics and science from 2019 and PISA 2018: Purpose, implementation and representativeness of the survey, information published at www.skolverket.se. The government assumes, of course, that the official statistics of the Swedish authorities and the OECD are correct. I have therefore had no reason to question the statistics. In this context, it is also important to remember that the Swedish knowledge results in recent years have increased in a number of different international measurements. At the same time, it is serious that questions have now arisen as to whether all schools have complied with the rules for which pupils should be excluded. Of course, each participating school must adhere to the rules laid down by the OECD as to which pupils are to do the test. Anything else is inappropriate. I have therefore made sure that the National Agency for Education takes this issue very seriously. For example, I assume that the Swedish National Agency for Education will work in the best way to instruct participating schools on current rules when participating in PISA 2021. For the government, it is extremely important that the statistics and knowledge we get from PISA are and can be interpreted correctly and that the results are comparable over time. The OECD will therefore re-examine the Swedish statistics and results. There should be no doubt whatsoever about Sweden's results. I therefore look forward to the OECD now carrying out a further review of PISA 2018 and the Swedish statistics.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-233	Madam President, I would like PISA 2018 showed a rise for Swedish students after a multiannual decline in results. Unfortunately, however, the upturn seems to be based on fretted figures. The newspaper Expressen has reported that a large number of foreign born students have been wrongly removed from the PISA selection. This is not really news. When the PISA report was presented, criticisms were voiced from several quarters that more than 11 percent of the students had been eliminated, the majority due to a lack of language skills. In fact, Sweden removed most students from all participating countries worldwide. The Swedish National Agency for Education also acknowledges that the vast majority of those excluded in PISA 2018 can be linked to Sweden's large refugee reception. However, we do not know how many. Sweden has chosen not to account for how many have been removed. In fact, Sweden and Italy were the only countries in the latest PISA study that chose not to report the groups separately. Madam President, I would like According to the regulations, foreign born pupils who have been taught Swedish for less than a year may be exempted from taking the test. If you have received Swedish for a year or more, you should write the test. But Expressen has spoken to several principals who admit that they have chosen to ignore the regulations. The line has also been drawn in a slightly different way, especially when it comes to the new arrivals. Of course, it is not reasonable for principals and schools to give completely different answers or to choose to make a case-by-case assessment. The idea is that they should follow the same rules. Madam President, I would like Professor Magnus Henrekson of the Swedish Institute for Enterprise Research has looked at statistics from various authorities and concluded that Sweden would probably have performed worse or even significantly worse if Sweden had complied with the applicable regulations. Henrekson says, among other things, that there seem to be serious methodological errors that systematically improved the average. The Swedish National Agency for Education has then used this raised average to give an overly positive picture of how the Swedish school has developed. For example, if Sweden had followed the OECD regulations, the Swedish results in reading comprehension would have been at least 5 and 13 points lower, according to Expressen's review. The reason for this is that a large number of foreign-born students have been removed from the PISA selection on incorrect grounds. A 5 point lower result in reading comprehension corresponds to almost the whole of Sweden's rise since PISA 2015. If there were 13 points lower results, it would have meant a clear decline and a race of over ten investments in the international ranking in PISA 2018. However, according to Magnus Henrekson, a fall of 13 percentage points may also be too low. In his reply, the Minister of Education refers to the Swedish National Agency for Education. The Swedish National Agency for Education believes that the study has been carried out in accordance with current OECD guidelines. At the same time, Expressen's review gives a completely different picture. I'll ask you a supplementary question. What I would like to know is: How does the Minister for Education explain this discrepancy?
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have dealt with this issue before both in committee and elsewhere. I asked three questions in my interpellation. Question 1 has been answered in principle. Question No 2 and Question No 3. What signals did the minister receive regarding violations of the regulations? And most importantly, what measures does the Minister of Education intend to take for the next test? There will be several tests. Madam President, I would like I will begin by commenting on the Minister for Education's reply. Ekström answers: The OECD has previously reviewed and approved PISA 2018. Yes, but they did not know that individual principals broke the rules when they approved this. I didn't think the National Board of Education knew that either. But now the National Board of Education admits that one had bad feelings, as shown in the Expressen article we mentioned. I personally have not questioned that there has been a real rise among students with Swedish background. It probably has. I have strongly questioned principals who violate the regulations with intent and create uncertainty about the whole test. I sometimes wonder if Minister Ekström and the Swedish National Agency for Education understand the damage these individual principals are really causing. There is, as I see it, an enormous educational damage caused by the Vice-Chancellor who went out to Expressen. Perhaps that is the most serious thing in all of this. Now there may be more principals who think it's okay to break the rules. That's how it works. When a headmaster goes out and says, "I'm breaking the rules" it's almost like I think you're cooking with it. It is up to the Government, the Swedish National Agency for Education and Government Ekström to handle the educational damage. I don't think anyone else can handle it. The overall result would also have been worse if the rules were followed regardless of whether there was a rise among students with Swedish background. I have no doubt that the Swedish National Agency for Education has given directives on the regulatory framework for the PISA test. I don't. But how clear and distinctive has it been when a principal can go out and say she has violated the rules? She's not even ashamed to say that. That's a very important question. Madam President, I would like Minister of Education Ekström answers: The government assumes, of course, that the official statistics of the Swedish authorities and the OECD are correct. But it's not. It's not quite correct. It's about some principals. I don't know how many. Expressen writes about three principals who have admitted that they have violated the regulations. I have no idea how many more principals have done it. But it's bad enough that three principals do it. Then it is not a correct result. My speaking time is running out. I'll stay there.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-253	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Minister for Education Anna Ekström for the comments on the PISA measurement. Liberals have repeatedly raised this issue. This applies not least to the alleged errors in the PISA measurement. I do not want to take the word that there have been cheating or even standing here and speculating on whether there have actually been errors. The most important thing for us in the Liberals is to find out if there have been any errors. We believe in international comparisons. The PISA measurement is the most important international measurement for schools in which Sweden participates. We from the Liberals support this type of exchange, dialogue and comparison in terms of knowledge development, as well as school systems within the OECD. I'm a little insecure when I read the answer. The Government and the Government state that the Swedish National Agency for Education reported that there may be no foreign-born pupils in the selection. When the Swedish National Agency for Education visited the Education Committee together with the Government, it became clear that you do not really have control over what happens when you send out the instructions and how it is actually carried out in the field. When it comes to accounting separation and selection principles, it is also important if more demarcations have been made than allowed. This also applies to how the measurement and the procedure can be controlled. Here I would like to hear what the Government and the Government say. We from the Liberals have now called for an independent external and national review of the PISA measurement. Then I don't think you should just look forward to the next measurement. We must ensure that the measurement that has been carried out has been carried out on the correct basis. The question to the government based on the answer will be: Will it be possible for the government, the OECD, the National Board of Education and those involved – or if we get what we want, namely an independent review – to look at separate accounts and the actual basis? It is also a question of being able to track down to each participating school in order to be able to really assess: have the regulations decided by the OECD been complied with or have they not been complied with? When we make school policy decisions, make assumptions and draw our conclusions, it is extremely important that this is done on a proper basis. Therefore, the PISA measurement is an important international basis in school policy.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-261	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the great interest shown in the OECD's important PISA study here in Parliament. I would like to remind you that it almost sounded like this was the first upturn after many years of declines, the previous PISA survey in 2015 also showed a real upturn. It was partly statistically secured, and partly not statistically secured, should be said. We also have the studies Timss, Pirl and ICCS. They are all important international studies that have shown in a very similar way a substantial upturn in the knowledge results for Swedish students in recent years. I would also like to remind you that, as far as PISA 2015 is concerned, there is no doubt, even with the question marks that have been placed at the edge of the presentation of the knowledge results of newly arrived students, that those who in OECD languages are called native – Swedish-born students who have attended Swedish schools throughout their lives – show a real rise in the latest PISA study as well. There is no need, and there should be no doubt whatsoever, that the results of knowledge have improved in the Swedish school in recent years. That is something we should be happy about. In his reply, Richard Jomshof points out that Sweden and Italy are the only countries that do not report which students have been excluded and on what grounds. This is an issue that is handled by the Swedish National Agency for Education, but as far as I am aware, this is because Swedish legislation is such that, for reasons of confidentiality, it is not possible to make such reports. It is a law that does not only apply to the PISA study, but it is a law that applies generally in the Swedish administration. It does not really have anything to do with this issue. It is absolutely impossible for me to answer the question as to why this legislation has come about. I can only say, as I have been told, that it is this legislation that makes it impossible for the accounts to be made. Both Richard Jomshof and Robert Stenkvist have made a rather big point of the fact that principals are said to have broken the rules. They say there's been cheating. It is said that the result is incorrect with precise score limits. Mr Jomshof even reads aloud from the debate article in the Expressen to underline this. Let me remind you, as Mr Roger pointed out, that these are alleged errors. These are statements that have been made in a newspaper article, and these are statements that I have taken so seriously that I think it is excellent that the OECD does a proper check and a proper examination of the matter. For the same reason, as I have already said in committee, I would like to remind you once again that it is, of course, wrong if principals do not follow the rules. But on the basis of a newspaper article alone, at least I will not blame principals or tell them that they have done wrong. I would like to thank Roger Haddad for the fine description he gave of how important it is that we have international cooperation and how important it is for the OECD to do these studies. He also described how much joy we have from them. That is why I have taken this data so seriously that I have asked the OECD to double-check the Swedish PISA results.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-271	Madam President, I would like I too, of course, would like to thank you for your answer. I forgot in my first speech, and I apologise for that. Madam President, I would like I believe that the problem is more profound than the uncovered negligence, cheating or whatever it may be, in connection with the PISA reporting. I believe that this shows some kind of system failure. We know that a number of teachers are exposed to threats and violence at school. We know that the situation has become worse over time. We know that many teachers are worried about going to school because of this. We know that nearly half of school teachers are forced to take considerable time to create some kind of calm in the classroom, to resolve conflicts and to try to create security and study in the classroom. Those are facts. At the same time, we also know that students around the country have long witnessed a harsher school climate, where, for example, girls and young women are subjected to complaints and harassment and young men talk about abuse and a generally unsafe school environment. So are the facts. At the same time, we have what I consider to be a never-ending stream of new arrivals in our Swedish schools, many with low or no school background. It is clear that such a policy costs money, and it is clear that such a situation in school creates problems for our teachers and for our students, who are there to learn. This never-ending stream of new arrivals naturally creates a shift in resources from Swedish students to new arrivals. Then it is no wonder that Swedish school has been struggling with a lot of problems for a long time – problems that are largely still being wrestled with. I am fully aware that the trend seems to be going up, which is extremely positive. We'll be very happy about that. But the school is extremely segregated, and we know it. We also know that many of the problems exist mainly in some municipalities, in some suburbs and in some problem schools. It is also these schools which cost huge money and which reduce the average. We must be aware of this, and we must be able to recognise it. I mean somewhere that instead of addressing the basic problem, namely Swedish immigration policy – and I do not burden the Minister with it – you choose to beautify and mislead, as has been done for several years. Then I am talking about how the government, and also the previous government, has acted and spoken out on a wide range of issues that can be linked to immigration policy. This applies not least when we talk about Swedish schools, and in the worst case, perhaps even manipulating and lying about this. If we look at the Expressen newspaper, we see that it is clear that Sweden has removed a large number of students due to a lack of language skills – even a larger proportion of students than the number of newly arrived 15-year-olds. That is, in any case, what has emerged from the review, and it seems, unfortunately, to be true. Then one might ask: How did this happen? Part of the answer could lie in – as is also suggested in the review and in the article – that second generation immigrants in some schools lack basic knowledge of Swedish and that they have chosen to exclude them as well. If this is the case, it is not allowed under the OECD regulatory framework. Then we talk about students who do not master the Swedish language even though they were born in Sweden. It is clear that it creates problems somewhere, and it can of course also give a misleading picture of how school in general – school in general – looks like to work. We must dare to talk about the parts that actually do not work, that is to say schools in municipalities that have received a great many people from other countries and which reduce the average. I had a number of questions, but I'm waiting to ask them. I think the Government will have questions anyway.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-284	Madam President, I would like As the Government says, much of the criticism stems from a single article. That's why I've chosen not to quote researcher Henr e ks o n, as I think his name was. I'd like more sources. But much of what the article says is direct citations. A principal is even named by first name and last name. I haven't done my homework properly, because then I would have lifted the telephone and called the principal myself. I didn't, but I should have. I'm a Swedish Democrat. I know that the newspapers angles, sometimes even so much that you can call it a lie. But even we Swedish democrats don't get misquoted anymore, so the direct quotes in the paper I think are true. So here a principal goes out and says that she has broken the regulations. It's direct citations. What is not direct citations and that we may be able to question is what says that the Swedish National Agency for Education has suspected errors: The Swedish National Agency for Education confirms that the authority has suspected that there has been an incorrect rejection of foreign students, which may have led to too high a Swedish result. I remember the committee meeting we had after this was presented. It was not we Swedish democrats who were in the highest position at that meeting, but it was another party. Now, however, we have somehow taken the lead shirt on the issue, when it has come to light that there are errors. The National Board of Education sat there with the entire leadership staff, who have worked on this at the National Board of Education. They looked me and the rest of them in the eye and confirmed that everything had gone right. But Expressen claims that even then it was suspected that there had been a wrong rejection of foreign students. It can be very serious if Heads of Government do not provide us with accurate information at committee meetings. I cannot guarantee that this is true, but if it is true, it is extremely serious. Nobody is asking them to report it to us in committee at the slightest suspicion, but if there have been tangible, concrete suspicions, they should have mentioned it at that committee meeting. Now I do not remember whether Minister Ekström attended that committee meeting, Madam President, where I am allowed to leave the walkover, but I am extremely concerned. I believe that the National Agency for Education has shown no humility in this matter. In fact, a little more humility could have been shown. There is something important. I'll get back to the principal, the one who was directly quoted. If, at the next test, the OECD chooses the same school, which they probably do not, but if they do, the same headmaster would once again violate the rules. That's how I interpret her statement in the article, where she's directly quoted. Therefore, I believe that action is needed from the Swedish National Agency for Education and Government Anna Ekström so that this does not happen again. That's exactly why the tests are so important. No one questions the fact that they're really important. That's why we want things to go right. We have to live with some careless mistake, but that is not what we are dealing with here. Here's what a principal says.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-293	Madam President, I would like It was obvious when the National Board of Education and the Government presented the report last autumn that they were careful. The rise measured in all three substances is not statistically certain, although it showed a positive development. What I want to say on the Liberal side is that it goes without saying that we so-called student groups should be excluded, not least new arrivals. We also said that in December when the report was presented. The question marks that have appeared to the government and the Swedish National Agency for Education are whether more than that category have been excluded and thus may have affected the result. I still get a little worried when the government answers that the Swedish National Agency for Education believes that there may be a lack of foreign-born students, i.e. not even our expert authority in the field can confirm how things are. It is this uncertainty that makes us worried, and I hope it also worries the government. It is clear from the report that each participating school should abide by the rules, but there are no mechanisms to ensure that this is done. I still want to know what the government intends to do to ensure that every school, from the National Board of Education down to the school level, follows the rules. We have put forward a proposal: that an independent external review at national level should be carried out in order to really review the elements. How does the government view this issue? We believe that it is good if someone comes from outside, an impartial function, looking at the PISA measurement, not least in view of the fact that the Swedish National Agency for Education has said that there have been no errors and that there are alleged errors.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-298	Madam President, I would like Richard Jomshof says that because there are so many who are excluded, more than according to some statistical measurements should be excluded, mistakes have been made. I would like to point out that the regulatory framework we are discussing here is the OECD regulatory framework. The OECD has decided in its framework for the PISA surveys that pupils who have been in the school system to be measured for a short period of time should not be included in the sample. The reason is precisely what Roger Haddad mentioned, namely to measure the impact of the school system. This is not done by looking at the students' knowledge when the students are newly arrived. Somewhere the line should be drawn. It is drawn in a way in the OECD regulatory framework. As to how it should be interpreted, I am very interested in the views of the OECD. The OECD is the organisation that has not only written the rules but also has experience of how they have been used, interpreted and applied in the 79 Member States and regions participating in the PISA. I would also like to remind you that it is not just because of language difficulties or the degree of new arrival – excuse Swedish! – which can be excluded from the PISA study, but also for students with cognitive impairments; in Swedish the pupils who go to special school or similar. This is in fact the reason why it is difficult to get an account because the legislation that protects students' privacy is strong in Sweden. Mr Jomshof then raises the issue of student security and study. This is a very important subject. There, the government is working fully with the cooperation parties, including the development of a national action plan to strengthen security and study. Lack of security and study in the classroom and in school are of course out over all students, but most of all over those students who need the most support. Richard Jomshof also mentions the importance of knowledge of the Swedish language. It is also an issue that is not only important but also taken very seriously. For several years we have presented major skills development efforts on a large language lift, which means greater opportunities for teachers to teach Swedish effectively for both pupils with Swedish as their mother tongue and pupils without Swedish as their mother tongue. We have recently extended this to preschool, which is the first step in lifelong learning. We also have a major investigation that is currently investigating the right to compulsory language preschool. This is an incredibly important issue given the importance of pre-schools laying the foundations for pupils' language development. Mr Jomshof also raises the issue of equivalence. I would just like to remind you briefly of the importance of this issue. There is a major investigation of Björn Åstrand that we have just received, which is a result of the work of the School Commission, among other things. The study proposes ways of strengthening equivalence in schools. It is very important for all students, but of course also for those students who with a lack of equivalence risk not being able to speak Swedish on the school grounds but only in the classroom. Madam President, I would like I have received several questions about how to ensure that the OECD regulations are applied to each school participating in the PISA study. The government's ability to check exactly how the PISA survey is applied in schools – I remind you that it is voluntary to participate in the PISA study – has a practical and legal limit. I should like to return in my next speech to why it is so important for the OECD to do the review. I have several interesting reasons, so don't turn off those of you who listen!
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-305	Madam President, I would like One can of course have views on the regulatory framework. It may even be the case that in some respects the regulatory framework is flawed. What do I know? But it has to be followed. If we do not comply with the acquis, the results cannot be compared either between countries or over time. The Minister for Education claims to have faith in the Swedish National Agency for Education and the statistics they have produced, but now there are suspicions that the Swedish National Agency for Education does not seem to have a proper track of whether or not the data from the individual schools are correct. Various principals admit that they have chosen to ignore the regulations, which also my party colleague Robert Stenkvist well brings up. They have drawn the line in a little different way when it comes to the new arrivals. The Swedish National Agency for Education admits that there has been a suspicion that there has been a misalignment of foreign born students, but Expressen's review shows that the Swedish National Agency for Education has made serious miscalculations and that the extent of the problem has been seriously underestimated when trying to identify the error. According to Expressen, the Swedish National Agency for Education has also been based on the wrong statistics. The Minister for Education said in her reply that she is assuming, for example, that the Swedish National Agency for Education will work best to instruct participating schools on the current rules for participation in PISA 2021. But how can the Minister assume this if the shortcomings are so serious? Can the Minister guarantee that the same error will not be repeated in the next measurement?
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-310	Madam President, I would like I still wonder why the National Agency for Education didn't mention the misalignment at our committee meeting right after the presentation. We will all have to wait for the OECD opinion when they have examined this. We'll follow the rules. It is not that we should have as tough a regulatory framework as possible, but we should follow the regulations that exist. If the OECD changes the regulatory framework and expands so that students can be removed for up to two years, then we will have to follow it. I'm not saying that would be unreasonable. The Government is talking about investigating that every school that participates voluntarily is doing the right thing. We understand that it may be impossible. Those tools don't exist. This is, of course, a task that comes from the OECD, which issues the regulatory framework. I imagine the National Agency for Education is sharing it with the participating schools. But the National Board of Education can do it in different ways. Now a vice-chancellor has appeared and said she participates voluntarily in the investigation, and yet she has violated the regulations. The National Agency for Education must be able to do something if Minister Ekström initiates it. You need to be clearer: If you are not willing to follow the rules, do not be involved in the investigation! We can never do anything about this. With that, I wish the Government and the Presidents a long, beautiful and restful summer.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-315	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again for the great interest shown in the OECD's important PISA study and the regulatory framework that the OECD has! After all, I promised a thorough review of why I think it is wise for the OECD to do the review that I think should be done. The PISA study is important precisely because it provides the opportunity to compare. Swedish school has many and big goals. Not all of these targets are measured in the PISA study, but with the PISA study and other international studies we get a comparability over time that is comprehensive enough for us to be able to say something about the state of the Swedish school. It is therefore incredibly important that the calculation, the regulatory framework, be applied in a similar way between different countries and over time. If it is applied in different ways between different countries, then the OECD lists of countries that have improved and deteriorated and the relations between them will be incorrect. In the same way and even worse, it is if you make changes over time. Then we do not get a good picture of the development of the Swedish school system. The reason why I think it is so important for the OECD to carry out this review is that it is the OECD rules that are at issue. It is with the OECD that competence lies in the rules. It is the OECD that is able to check and know how the rules are applied in other countries. I can beat myself to the point that this is not the first time that errors have been alleged to have been committed in schools. This is certainly something that the OECD has experienced in the past and managed in the past and has a system to follow up. The OECD has not only competence but also integrity. The OECD has earned a good reputation in these contexts. Moreover, even if we did not think the OECD was a good idea, we would at least think that the other 78 countries and regions that are taking part would not overlook the fact that the OECD allowed us to go too far up.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-322	Madam President, I would like Richard Jomshof has asked me what I intend to do about a number of individuals with direct links to so-called violent extremist environments running schools and preschools in Sweden. He has also asked me what I intend to do about schools being used to spread an ideological message to reach out and create the conditions for radicalising and recruiting, but also for working violent extremists in schools. Extremism and radicalisation do not belong in preschools and schools or. The Swedish Security Service states in reports that people who pose threats to Sweden's security and key people in radicalising young people have been allowed to run preschools and schools or. E xtremism, religious influence or lack of education can never be accepted. All education in the school system must comply with the rules laid down in the school constitutions. The school has a democratic mission. All those who work in school should assert the basic values set out in the legislation and clearly distance themselves from what is contrary to them. As a supervisory authority, the State's school inspection can take a variety of measures when schools do not comply with the rules in force. The first step is an injunction to take action to eliminate operational deficiencies. According to the School Act, the School Inspectorate is already allowed to withdraw the approval of an individual as head of an independent school if an injunction has not been followed or the misconduct is serious. On 1 January 2019, new provisions entered into force in the Education Act on aptitude testing for the ownership and management circle of individual school leaders. The provisions ensure that the owner or manager of a school has not only sufficient resources, experience and knowledge, but is also law-abiding, inclined to fulfil his obligations to the general and otherwise appropriate for the task. The Swedish School Inspectorate's review includes obtaining evidence from, among other things, the Swedish Police Authority. In each individual case, the Swedish School Inspectorate may decide whether additional data should be collected from other authorities such as the Swedish Companies Registration Office, the Swedish Enforcement Authority or the Swedish Tax Agency. I note that the strengthened rules for ownership and management testing have already been used as a tool to stop inappropriate principals from operating as important a tax-funded e welfare business as pre-school and school activities. The report New Rules for Confesional Schools (SOU 2019:64) proposes that the ownership and management testing of individual school leaders should be supplemented by a test against specific democracy conditions. The investigation has been referred, and the proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. In addition, the Government has decided to set up an investigation into, among other things, how the Swedish School Inspectorate should be able to withdraw a permit for an individual head of an independent school, or decide on state measures for corrections in respect of a municipal school, in the event that the school regularly shows deficiencies in the activities that are serious. The government is no stranger to taking further measures needed to ensure that all students receive a safe and good education in our schools.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-330	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. In this, the Minister for Education says, among other things, that e xtremism and radicalisation do not belong in preschools or schools or. The Minister for Education further says that e xtremism, religious influence or lack of education can never be accepted. Nevertheless, extremism, religious influence, radicalisation and lack of education are present. At the end of May, the Swedish Security Service reported that several individuals with direct links to so-called violent extremist environments run schools and preschools in Sweden. According to Säpo, these are about ten schools and preschools with links to what they call violent Islamist extremism. Johan Olsson, operational director of Säpo, says to Swedish Radio that the schools are used to spread what he calls an ideological message. These individuals, these extremists, these Islamists, are thus using the Swedish school system to reach out and create the conditions for radicalising and recruiting. In total, it affects the schooling of hundreds of children, and Säpo believes that it can contribute to the growth of so-called extremist environments. Madam President, I would like About a year ago, in June 2019, we were able to read in Expressen about how several IS-returners work at Swedish schools. Several of them also have leading roles in recruiting and financing what Säpo calls the violent Islamist environment. Three months later, in September 2019, Magnus Ranstorp, a terrorist researcher at the Swedish Defence University, told us that Islamists can be linked to several preschools but also to family day care centres around Sweden. According to Ranstorp, the aim of this activity is to join the rest of society. The Islamists thus oppose open and democratic Sweden, and according to Ranstorp this starts in preschool and continues all the way up to high school. When the operative director of the Security Service Johan Olsson says that tax money should not go to running schools that are not based on a democratic foundation of value, it sounds self-evident. Of course, it should be self-evident that extremists and Islamists should not be allowed to run schools and preschools in Sweden at all. Unfortunately, however, everything seems to be possible in today's Sweden, even schools run by or linked to Islamists. It has now gone so far that Säpo requires a change of law to overcome the problem. That is a good thing, and it is a change of law that the Swedish Democrats have been demanding for a long time.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-339	Madam President, I would like There should be order in classrooms and schooling, but there should also be order and order in the management of the school. The government has a number of investigations in progress aimed at tightening the rules on school governance. I am referring, on the one hand, to the investigations relating to strengthening security and studies in the classroom, and, on the other hand, to the investigation I mentioned in the interpellation response, which is about us making it easier for the School Inspectorate to close schools that commit various errors. If the School Inspectorate is to close a school today, it has to pick this up on the fact that something has happened that the school has not fixed. A school can thus fix a problem, get new criticism, fix that problem, get new criticism and keep on doing so for a long time. I hope that with the investigation that we have set up, we will be able to access this problem so that it will be easier for the School Inspectorate to close schools that have recurring problems. I can also note that during the previous term of office, the government tightened the regulatory framework for the so-called ownership and management review. It was a good tightening up, and it has already resulted in the School Inspectorate having been able to act against schools. I wonder a little cautiously how the Swedish Democrats stood up in Parliament when that question was put to the vote. Did the Swedish Democrats vote for a strengthened ownership and management test, or did the Swedish Democrats vote against? Mr Jomshof refers to the amendment of the law that Mr Säpo has spoken about in the media and makes it something almost mysterious that Mr Säpo requires such a change of law. I can inform Mr Jomshof that the reason why Mr Säpo made that statement was to reply to a referral on independent religious schools sent out by the government. An investigator has proposed a ban on the establishment of religious free schools, as well as stricter rules for religious free schools. The same investigator has also proposed a so-called democracy criterion, which Mr Säpo has supported in his referral. The reason why Mr Säpo is out clarifying this position is therefore precisely that such an issue is already on the table. Here, too, I'm a little perplexed. How do the Swedish Democrats view the introduction of a ban on the establishment of religious free schools? Can the Swedish Democrats consider reconsidering their previous negative position?
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-344	Madam President, I would like For several years we have been able to see Islamists move forward their positions in Sweden, slowly but surely. Unfortunately, the Swedish school is no exception. It has previously been reported, for example, that veiled little girls were forced to sit behind the boys at the back of the classroom at Växjö Islamic School. It has been reported that girls with menstruation have been unwelcome to parts of the education at the Muslim Römosse School in Gothenburg. It has been reported that the Al-Azhar school in Vällingby has a division between girls and boys on the school bus, where veiled girls are forced to sit at the back. It has also previously been reported, for example, that 27 out of 40 municipal preschools in so-called vulnerable areas in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö can consider controlling children and forcing them to wear a veil. In addition, it was reported that children have been filmed by school staff in order to assure parents that the child does not take off the veil at school. Last year, the President of the Muslim School of Science was taken over by the Swedish Security Service, when he was considered a threat to national security. However, the school's Islamist connections have been known for several years. It's about connections to IS and the Muslim Brotherhood. One might wonder what the School Inspectorate, the Government and, in this case, the Municipality of Gothenburg are really doing. I think the meekness is actually frightening. And this is a selection. Madam President, I would like I have previously asked the Minister for Education if she would like to work towards a ban on the Islamic and anti-female veil in Swedish pre- and primary school. If anyone asks, I can tell you this: she cannot – she is not willing to do so. With this kind of attitude, it is no wonder that Islamists are moving forward their positions in Sweden. Islamists, with the good memory of the government, have been allowed to plague Swedish schools for a very long time. Madam President, I would like However, there is a more profound problem than any individual principals. Even if all Islamists were to be denied the opportunity to carry out school activities, the basic problem remains. I am, of course, talking about Islamism, which has been allowed and is still allowed to spread in Sweden and is allowed to be, I believe, a cancerous thing in democratic society – with the good memory of the government. Everything we and the Swedish people have been fighting for for centuries, for generations, is being destroyed by socialists and liberals. It is about destructive multiculturalism and mass immigration. The Minister for Education says in his reply that the government is not alien to take further steps needed to ensure that all students receive a safe and good education in our schools. That's good. But if the Minister really means what she says in her reply, can we agree here and now to introduce a ban on veiling in Swedish preschools? They're supposed to be a free zone where girls don't have to wear this degrading garment. In that case, we can agree on that if we are now to live up to the democracy clause. If the Minister really means what she says in her reply, we can agree here and now to ban Muslim free schools and instead allow students to go to other schools among other children.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-354	Madam President, I would like A disadvantage of written posts, Richard Jomshof, is that there is no room to answer questions. I am still calling for an answer to the question of how the Swedish Democrats stood when the government heard their proposal for a strengthened ownership and management review, the new legislation that has led to the closure of at least one school. I would like to take this opportunity to state clearly that gender equality is a matter of course in Swedish society. This is something that we women, along with many men, have been fighting for for decades. It is an issue where the winners have not come for free and where I will not contribute to giving up anything. I will not be contributing to any legislation in which girls are forced, for religious, political or ideological reasons, to put on garments that they do not want. However, I do not want to direct the power of society or legislation towards the girls who are forced. I want to direct the power of society and legislation towards those who force girls to put on garments that they do not want themselves. That is my absolute and firm conviction. We are not compromising equality. It is for everyone in Sweden, regardless of origin and religion. Mr Jomshof mentioned family day-care centres in his first speech. I would like to draw Richard Jomshof's attention to an investigation that the government received the other day, which has gone through the form of educational care that we have in Sweden but which is now quantitatively rather small. This is an investigation that gives rise to cold grooves and where you see quality deficiencies that should not occur. The investigator's proposal is that the establishment ban should be introduced in Sweden for educational care. This is something we should consider carefully. As the daughter of a day care provider and raised in a family day care home, I know what a fine and good form of care it is and what good educational activities can be conducted there. I must admit, however, that I have been very upset by the examples I have been given, both through the researcher mentioned by Richard Jomshof, Magnus Ranstorp, and through the investigation. I would also like to remind you that, through a rather rapid amendment of the curriculum, we have been able to deal with a great deal of the examples that Mr Jomshof highlighted of errors that have been committed in independent and municipal schools and preschools. We have written into the curriculum that teaching and education should take place in such a way that boys and girls are not divided into different groups. I can assure Mr Jomshof that the government is taking this issue very seriously. The fact that independent schools with a religious orientation have been able to conduct activities in Sweden for far too long that have not been good for children or for society has now given us better tools to deal with thanks to an important change in legislation in the Riksdag. I hope that Parliament will be able to ensure that we get even better tools when we eventually go through the proposal that is made about religious free schools and their establishment bans.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-361	Madam President, I would like To get answers about how a particular party voted in a certain vote will not allow itself to do here and now, and I will not ask that question to the Government either. Had I been asked in advance, I would have been able to check it out, and then we could have a debate and discussion on it. We are voting quite often in this House. As I said, despite several revelations, I believe that we have only scratched the surface with regard to the problem of these Muslim free schools. I do not know whether to interpret the Government's response as if we could actually find a solution to this. I see absolutely no problem with shutting them down with immediate effect. I have said it before and I say it again, because I think it is important: Whether we are talking about Swedish school or about society at large, we must do everything in our power to counteract the ongoing Islamisation of Sweden. I say that it actually poses a real threat to democratic and open Sweden. It does not matter whether we are talking about forces that push for Islamisation within the country's borders, for example through schools and preschools, or about Islamist states that are trying to push for Islamisation with targeted financial means. How it can be that this is still allowed is also an issue that we have debated. The fight against anti-democratic, anti-violent and anti-female Islamism must be taken on every level every day of the week. Finally, if we are now fighting for equality, and I have no doubt that the Government is doing so, it is strange that we seem to want to compromise with these values and actually allow these kinds of individuals and groups to fit in. You give them space. They have been given the opportunity to start this activity, where they can plague the teaching and everyday life of an incredible number of children. This will have repercussions in society for a long time to come. I am absolutely convinced of that, unfortunately.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-366	Madam President, I would like No, of course you shouldn't have homework here in Parliament's pulpit. But I will admit that I am a little surprised that Richard Jomshof resorts to such breast tones about how Swedish school systems have been able to develop in a way that, according to his own description, is completely destructive when the Swedish democrats actually voted against the proposal for ownership and management testing and increased permit requirements. It was the previous parliamentary year that this vote took place here in Parliament. I am a little surprised also when I hear the contrast between Richard Jomshof's way of expressing himself here and what the SD has said before about confessional free schools. Rather, the party has expressed its support for the continuation of secular free schools, but with increased inspection and stricter supervision. But perhaps I have read in the wrong place on the website of the Swedish Democrats. I would really like to emphasise that the background to the statement that Mr Säpo made in the newspapers and the media, and which I found very interesting, was precisely the proposal that is now being referred and that is about introducing a democratic requirement for starting and running a free school. It will be very interesting to see how this rule is passed on here in Parliament. For the time being, I must thank you for this interpellation. If nothing unforeseen happens, this is the last time we meet in this Chamber for the summer, and so I would like to thank the Presidents and the Parliament's excellent staff, not least the Parliament's stenographers, for the work we have been able to do together this year. All the bad things I've said are my fault, everything that's gotten good in the record is the stenographer's credit. Thank you very much, and happy summer! ( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: I must also wish the Minister and everyone else a happy and pleasant summer. )
i-ecc816f953866b76-0	So do I. )
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-371	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what I intend to do to ensure the accessibility of the Swedish Transport Agency. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, the availability of investigators at the driving licence department has not been impaired by the ongoing pandemic. The investigators are manning the phone as usual. In the interpellation, Thomas Morell highlights the provisions of the Administrative Act concerning, among other things, service and accessibility. I assume that the Swedish Transport Agency will follow these. In addition, the Swedish Transport Agency must examine the question of whether the driving licence should be withdrawn for the time being or returned without delay. According to information from the Swedish Transport Agency, the instructions to investigators state that matters where a driving licence is taken care of in Sweden and where an investigation is to be carried out have the highest priority. It is also clear from the instruction that when a driving licence is taken care of, a decision must be taken within a few days of receipt of the holder's opinion. As Thomas Morell well knows, I cannot speak on individual matters as Minister of State. However, for those who consider themselves to have been mistreated by an authority, or an official of an authority, there is the possibility to contact the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, who examines that the authorities work according to the laws and rules that govern their work.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-376	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas, for your answer! Driving licences are a valuable document. It means a great deal to the individual, and to the professional driver the driving licence is a prerequisite for making a living. Individuals can make a mess of themselves. It can go too fast when driving, and some drink other than water when driving, and it doesn't get good. However, no matter what is at the root of the agency's intervention in relation to driving licences, the handling must be carried out quickly and efficiently, and the victim must feel that the handling has been correct and that he has not been neglected in any way. I have worked for over 20 years in activities that are closely related to road traffic, driving licences, driving licences and actions against individuals. When you commit a serious crime on the way, there is a criminal law aspect, and it usually handles the police, prosecutors and courts very well. There are well-established procedures for that. Then, when the criminal law part is over, the measure will come, where the authority will assess whether or not it is appropriate to be a driver. This is where delays occur from time to time. In my interpellation, I referred to an individual case. There are many other such cases, and I have just today, between the debates I have had here, sitting on the computer and having a dialogue with others. So this is something that is going on. I can also understand that the authority is strained during the period of Corona, because of course there are also cases of disease. However, priority needs to be given to those people who have been told about measures regarding driving licences – as soon as possible. There are a lot of thoughts going around in the head of the person who has put himself in this situation – it is usually the individual himself who has done so. You do not know what will happen, and you would like to call an administrator at the Swedish Transport Agency immediately to talk about it and so on. This is therefore an important issue for the individual concerned. The authority has to stand a little on its toes when it comes to driving licences in order for this to work. The individual should also be able to speak in his or her case, put forward what has happened and such things, write down an opinion and get it assessed by the authority. I am well aware that the Minister cannot discuss an individual case or take action against the Authority, for then it will be a matter of ministerial government, and we shall not be doing that. However, the government and parliament can act when it is discovered that an authority does not act as quickly as it should reasonably do with regard to the individual's situation. The driving licence is an extremely important act for people. It's about being able to make a living. For those who are professional drivers, driving licences are even more important because you do not get an income if you do not have a driving licence.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-383	Madam President, I would like I think we fully agree that the Authority should deal with these matters quickly. It is also clear, as I said, in both the driving licence law and the instructions to the authority that it is a requirement of urgency that applies. This means that you should act quickly, and so does the Swedish Transport Agency. They have speeded up this and improved their procedures, but again: There will certainly always be times when someone is not satisfied with the handling. There is also a special management system there. The reason for the urgency requirement is precisely what Thomas Morell refers to: that it is important to the individual. We, as politicians, sometimes tend to talk about how many cases there are, whether there are 8 000 or 20 000 cases. That is about the sums we are talking about: 20 000 a year. We should remember that for the individual, it is absolutely crucial decision-making and handling, which may cause anxiety or concern. That is why there is an urgency requirement, and that is why the Authority has to deal with this urgently. So does the Swedish Transport Agency, of course.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Eneroth. Well, one might say that in the vast majority of cases the Swedish Transport Agency may handle this as quickly as you can ask, but there are still cases that run outside the system, which take time. People don't get answers. They do not come into contact with the authority. I have, because I have the background I have, a lot of contacts with drivers from both north and south who feel that they do not get their case tried. I have said more than once: Wait! Forty-eight hours, the Police Authority will be wearing to send documents to the Swedish Transport Agency. The Authority shall then contact you in one way or another. But when it pulls away so that it will be over a week from the event to there will be some response from the Swedish Transport Agency, it is not reasonable. Then it's been too long. It may be that the victims themselves have put themselves in the situation, but they really are suffering from the pressure that it is when they do not know what is going to happen. What's going to happen to me? I've been driving too fast, and the police took my driver's license. Or maybe I was driving under the influence, and the police took my driver's license. What will happen next? What will happen to me and my condition to support me in the future? A whole wall of questions line up in front of the people affected. We need to get through that wall as quickly as possible and get in touch with the authority. If you only get in touch with the authority, you can, so to speak, handle the situation you are in. But when you don't get there, problems arise. After all, I am so old that I was at the time when the county administrative boards had their driving licence units. At that time, the units were considerably smaller than today. It was easier to get in touch with an individual official or administrator and to conduct a dialogue on that basis. It was very much a close relationship with the authority and a quick and correct assessment. Today it feels a little bit like the Swedish Transport Agency is in the dark in its handling. You don't really get it stuck in the errands you'd like. I feel, at least on the basis of the contacts I have had, that you do not live up to the urgency requirements that exist. It takes too long from the event out on the road until the agency acts. The time that passes in between is terrible for the individual it touches. It is therefore important for the Minister to have a dialogue with the Swedish Transport Agency on how communication with it can be improved. It can be done without pointing with the whole hand. You can also ask the question.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-391	Madam President, I would like I think that one of the fine elements of Swedish state administration is precisely the ability to uphold the principles of the rule of law. In this case, it is people who may have committed crimes or, as Thomas Morell himself describes, have lost their driving licence out of their own negligence. It doesn't matter. Here, matters should be dealt with promptly. The Swedish Transport Agency handles this urgently precisely because it is an uncertainty for the individual. That is probably the fundamental principle that I think we should take the opportunity to be proud of in Swedish government: that we have authorities that actually handle matters quickly and follow the principles we have in this case with special urgency requirements, precisely so that the individual can be informed as quickly as possible. I, of course, find it difficult to take a position as a minister in the dark. I do not share the view that, in this case, the Swedish Transport Agency is an authority that is shrouded in the dark, but is following the rules of the Administrative Act and trying to do the best possible job of dealing with all cases as a matter of urgency – I think it is about 20 000 a year. I'm sure there may be times when you can't handle the mission. In this case, it is possible for the individual to contact, for example, the Ombudsman for Justice, if before then the administrative law has been examined to demand a decision or to complain about the authority's handling. I note that this is still being done very well. We should be proud and happy that we have an authority to deal with this urgently. These are good and important guidelines we have. Should there be reason to improve them, there is, of course, a willingness to act, but I do not see that that would be the case here. However, it is of course always good to note whether there are shortcomings in the ability to maintain good management, if there are, for example, shortages of resources. But I have not understood that at this point Thomas Morell is prepared to provide more resources to the Swedish Transport Agency. In this case, it is a question of simply having a quick and efficient procedure, and that is a good thing.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Tomas Eneroth. Resource allocation, I do not think, is the answer to the question. I rather believe that we need to streamline our procedures and perhaps re-prioritise a little in the current situation. I do not know what it looks like in the agency if they have a higher sickness rate today than in a normal state. But it can be assumed that they are more burdened by disease at this stage than they are in a normal state. I myself have been exposed to the fact that there has been no urgent action in a driving licence case. That was when I was going to renew my license a few years ago. It was for some reason lying down. I can stand here and list a number of cases, so there is an improvement potential. I do not really believe in the model with large units, but it was better before when it was a little smaller units on the county boards that handled the driving license. It was a faster procedure, and if you have a faster procedure you also get a more efficient flow. I think that is extremely important. I think that the Government should have a discussion with the Authority in the next conversation and that you should see what you can do to improve the situation, so that you act quickly. Even if the individual himself has put himself in a certain position, he should be treated with respect in the handling that then takes place in the authority, and that should be done quickly. With this, I wish the President, the Government and the rest of the House a pleasant summer. See you this autumn in new, interesting debates!
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-401	Madam President, I would like I would also like to wish Thomas Morell a pleasant summer. We will certainly continue to have debates; I am sure of that. I note that Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats do not see the need for additional resources to the Authority but talk about efficiency efficiency. I also note that, in this case, the Swedish Democrats and Thomas Morell might prefer to see a return to the county boards dealing with the issues. This was a road choice made a relatively long time ago. I think the Transport Agency generally does a very good job. I think it is good that we have a requirement of urgency and criteria. If there are times when this is not carried out, there is a system in which the individual citizen can turn, which is important. Whatever the reason, the individual should still be able to receive a reply as soon as possible. I think it's so important, and that's where you do a good job.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-404	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me a number of questions about regional airports. The outbreak of the new Corona virus has reduced travel at non-governmental regional airports in Sweden to very low levels. The vast majority of airports are therefore in a difficult economic situation and face an increased risk of closure. This may lead to a deterioration in the accessibility of different regions of the country and reduce the conditions for carrying out socially important air transport, e.g. ambulance flights. The Government has proposed to the Riksdag that a temporary operation's support be given to regional airports in 2020. The aid amounts to SEK 100 million. With the support, 22 airports, from Pajala in the north to Kristianstad in the south, can receive an economic relief in order to maintain accessibility one throughout the country. R Egeringen decided in December 2019 to commission Trafikverket to conduct a review of the Swedish contingency airports. The mission has recently been finalized and is now being prepared within the Government Office. Emergency airports play an important role in ensuring preparedness for essential public air transport operations regardless of the time of day.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-408	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for realizing that this is a very important debate to take now and not this autumn. I agree that airports are in a very difficult economic crisis, but I think the Minister is wrong in saying that there is an increased risk of closure of our airports. I would say, Madam President, that there is an acute risk of our domestic flight being closed down. Of course, the Green Party sees its chance to finally succeed in its anti-aircraft policy. But what if they understood that in the region I come from, the space and aeronautics stronghold in Trollhättan, the big, innovative environmental project in the billion-dollar class is going to realise an environmentally friendly flight! Madam President, I would like I argue that Swedish domestic aviation is crucial for jobs, innovation, development and growth in Sweden. Reliable communications are a crucial factor for the business community in our part of West Sweden. A large part of our business has its customers, facilities, owners and suppliers in other parts of Sweden but also abroad. That is why access to functioning air links is of the utmost importance in order to kick-start business, our large industrial groups and a thriving tourism industry. I am pleased that the government listened to the wise proposals of the Moderates for temporary operating aid to regional airports of 100 million. However, temporary operating aid does not provide air traffic, and I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure here today, Madam President, what the government intends to do to ensure that the airports continue to operate in the long term. The operators, the airlines, are also badly wounded in the crisis. It is quite understandable that they are now focusing first and foremost on the major routes from the major airports. The government has invested in purchasing traffic at the small airports in Norrland. The medium-sized airports in South and West Sweden remain. Often they have been added, as in Trollhättan and Vänersborg, because trains are not a possible way to travel. The flight is needed in these locations. In discussions with the airlines, it appears that they are afraid to invest in the medium-sized airports, because they want to share the risk with the airport. Here, the municipal law makes a little bit of a difference, since municipal companies cannot use venture capital. I therefore believe that the state needs to ensure that there is start-up aid. It can be phased out after time and at a cabin factor of 30 – 50 percent, but it is needed. Madam President, I would like The government has presented conditional money: 5 billion to SAS. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure a few questions. Sweden looks different. Travel opportunities are unevenly distributed, but the government has explicitly stated that all of Sweden should live.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-421	How does the Minister view the possibility of introducing start-up aid to operate airports? If these 100 million are not to go up in smoke, you also need to plan long-term and beyond the pandemic.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-423	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm, for the commitment to regional airports! I will honestly say that I really share this commitment, and I also share the ambition, the will and the vision that we can get fossil-free flights. With biofuels and the electrification of aviation, we shall have a development in which aviation also assumes its responsibility for the climate change that needs to be done. It is gratifying that the Moderates are now getting a climate commitment to the issue of aviation as well. The opposition to both air taxes and climate demands on aviation has been quite strong from moderate quarters. I think it is important that we are all as clear as the aviation industry itself, from GKN to Heart Aerospace, as well as the industry that now sets up its own ambitious plan for the conversion of aviation together with Fossil-free Sweden and sees opportunities for aviation to actually manage to make the transition that other modes of transport also do, not least with electrification but also with biofuels. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has a number of comments that are not quite correct. It is not the case that SAS receives 5 billion in credit guarantees in the credit guarantee programme that exists; it is open to all airlines operating in Sweden, where 1.5 billion were earmarked for SAS. We have procured public service obligations precisely to maintain socially important transport. Otherwise, the order is so that it is the market that determines the possibilities of aviation where we have commercial flights. If we go in with procured traffic it replaces commercial flights, and then we make it difficult for the aircraft to restart. And what we are seeing now is that the flight slowly but surely returns and restarts. The intervention, as I understood it, mainly concerned the regional airports where we from the government are now allocating resources. I am pleased that the Moderates also supported that proposal afterwards, because it is of course important that we help municipalities and regions with the responsibility they have for their airports. As I said, we have an investigation that has just looked at emergency airports. It is clear that in essence it is important that we have good redundancy and good conditions for ambulance flights, fire planes and other things. That was also the reason why that investigation was set up. In the future, we may need to have a different structure both because of technological developments, such as electric flights, and because we now have increased demands and requests for, for example, ambulance flights for the transport of patients for surgery at Karolinska, Akademiska Hospital or elsewhere. This is highlighted in the assignment that the Swedish Transport Administration reported to the Government as late as last week. I can therefore urge Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm to read this investigation. It is exciting, and it triggers the idea of the challenges facing aviation. So it is important that we have a good regional airport structure. However, it is also important that aviation, like all other parts of the transport sector, takes its responsibility to cope with climate change. There we have announced that we will proceed with environmentally differentiated take-off and landing charges and with other efforts to support and assist aircraft to cope with this change so that the entire transport sector can meet its climate commitment. Air travel is important for a country like Sweden. Sweden is a small export-dependent industrial country. We need good air connections both within the country and out into the world's markets. That is why we are working on a flight strategy. That is also why we have taken particular account of the conditions of regional airports and, not least, have now made extra efforts to help regional airports when the pandemic has resulted in virtually all flights having stood still.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-432	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for this very committed response. I hope that we can work constructively on this. Madam President, I would like We're standing in the middle of a high summer heat. It's dry out in the fields. In July 2018, at least fifty forest fires broke out in Sweden covering a total of 25,000 hectares of forest. Some 7,000 rescue operations were carried out in often inaccessible terrain. The Swedish Armed Forces contributed 500 men. There was extinguishing aid from all over Sweden. People brought food to the firemen. People lined up the roadsides and hailed the firemen of other nations as heroes. Norway contributed ten water-bomb helicopters, the EU with two Bombardier Superscoopers, the Italians and the French with four similar heavy water-bombing planes and Portugal with two smaller Fire Boss planes. We did it together that time. And maybe we in Sweden together with our Nordic neighbours can stand on our own fire flights next time. But a fire plane in all honor is quite useless if there are no airports on alert. This spring we have suffered a pandemic. Airports have been ready 24 hours a day to receive and send ambulance flights with people in need and in need of rapid assistance. They are also ready to release important medical consignments, where speed is a vital factor. However, an ambulance flight that saves lives is basically useless if there are no airports on standby and with professionalism in its handling. Madam President, I would like I do not think I need to stress the importance of Sweden having a secure structure in order for the whole country to have access to emergency airports. Madam President and the Minister. These days, the airport emergency investigation came. MSB clearly expresses a well-founded fear that airports will be closed down. I share this fear, Madam President. I would say that Sweden has a system error that we risk permanent, a system error that lies in our readiness being anything but good. This preparedness investigation shows that a list of emergency airports is presented in the preparatory work. But when the investigation is completed and presented, another list will appear. According to both pre-work and ready-made proposals, it is considered that everyone is needed. I understand that you can choose on the basis of very many different criteria. But I would like to ask the Minister, Madam President, how the government will act in the future. It's about 50 million a year and 19 selected airports out of 22. Madam President, I would like If you're not prepared, you're unprepared. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: how does the government view the possibility of correcting a system failure, so that Sweden can finally get a system that is right and safe, and turn all regional airports into emergency airports?
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-440	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm for her commitment. It would perhaps be appropriate to point out that it was a moderate government that made the shift that meant that we got state airports with one responsibility and municipal and regional airports with something else. I also note that there has not been much commitment from the Moderates either in terms of nationalising airports or substantially increasing support for regional airports. It is under this government that we have both investigated and worked on the structure of regional airports and also on two occasions made additional efforts in the form of air tax compensation and now additional resources to regional airports because they are important. I really have a commitment, and I think regional airports are important. I therefore welcome the fact that the Moderates are in agreement with this commitment. We need broad support in order to have a working common structure in the future. That is why we gave the task to the Finnish Transport Administration to look at regional airports, to look at how the division of responsibilities should be and what is the commitment of the state and what is actually the involvement of municipalities and regions. I think it is important that, not least with the experience of the fires two summers ago, we ensure that we have redundancy and that we have airport capacity that is open. We also see an increase in the importance of ambulance flights. In order for those listening to this debate to be aware of what we are talking about, it is not so much a matter of emergency ambulance transport. Often it is ambulance transportation for patients to have surgery elsewhere. The more centralised health care we have, the more ambulance transportation will also be from places that are less accessible. It is clear that we have a challenge in the future in terms of what the joint responsibility for the regional airport structure should be. This government has taken responsibility by providing resources and by ensuring that regional airports receive additional resources. We share the burden and responsibility with municipalities and regions. However, I am now not prepared to propose that we go further in the nationalisation of regional airports. I don't think the Moderates have it on their wish list so far either. I think it is good that we are discussing what aviation means to Sweden. The flight is important. It is important for a country that needs to stick together, not least given the long distances that we have. It is important to ensure that we have good contacts with the outside world, not least because we are an export-dependent industrial country. It is important that flights are there for fast connections when trains or road transport are not an option. However, it is also important at a time when aviation is changing and that it is able to cope with climate change – the transition to biofuels and to electric flights. In the Västra Götaland region around Trollhättan, there may be the world's best expertise when it comes to the development of aviation. Let us use this competence to ensure that we also have a strong industrial development for aviation in Sweden. I recently participated in a webinarium together with Swedish flights about the future of electric flights. It is clear that although we see strong climate reasons to ensure that we establish electric flights here whenever possible, there are of course also strong economic and industrial reasons to ensure that we have these developments at home. Therefore, the Government invests resources through the Elise project and through other research and development projects precisely to strengthen the transformation of aviation. Welcome in! There are more of us who need to make sure that the aircraft is able to make the transition but also available throughout the country.
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the welcome, Tomas Eneroth! But if the Moderates hadn't run the government in front of them, the regional airports would not have received the 100 million they now receive. My question, however, was not about what former governments have done, but my question was about what this government should do in the future. It's an emergency. It is not enough for half the government to want to fly well. I would like to thank you for an informative debate, but I would also like to initiate an idea that Sweden would need an aviation board like our space board. Aviation is not just infrastructure – it is business, education, development, growth and innovation. There is a need for an understanding across departmental boundaries. Madam President, I would like Sweden is an export-dependent country. Not least when you stand at Trollhättan-Vänersborg Airport and see foreign expertise – which the Minister called the world's best – and the workforce is received by companies from Bengtsfors, Kungshamn, Munkedal, Uddevalla, Trollhättan and Vänersborg. Of course, these companies need the airport, but in order for it to start up again after the Corona crisis, air traffic is needed. I hope, Madam President, that the Minister has heeded the need for start-up aid that airports have. I hope, Madam President, that the Minister has responded to the need for emergency airports throughout the country, for the safety of Sweden as a whole. Everything is connected, Madam President. Swedish domestic aviation is crucial for jobs, innovations, development and growth throughout Sweden. Finally, Madam President, I would like to wish you, the office and, of course, the Minister, a nice, safe and pleasant summer. Please take your flight to Fyrbodal!
i-d0a32196dfce2dcd-452	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, for the dedication, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm! We share that when it comes to aviation. However, let me be a little bit more formal: when starting routes, it is only on a few individual occasions that the government initiates it, and that is whether we are commissioning the Finnish Transport Administration to procure flights according to public service obligations. It is regulated internationally and not least European, and there should be specific reasons – for example, socially important transport. We have done this. We made a unique decision not so long ago to use public service obligations to Norrland and Gotland, because I and the government judged the situation to be so serious. When there was no other flight, we had to ensure that there are socially important transports of medical supplies or people in health care. Otherwise, commercial flights are actually capable of doing this, and we now see that commercial flights are re-starting to a greater extent. The reason we have this system is that the aviation market has nevertheless worked well. However, as blunt as the EU acquis has been for a long time in terms of conditions for securing important transport from states, it is just as important that we fight together for a perhaps more extended regulatory framework that allows states to procure air transport when the market is unable to do so. This about the public service obligations – now we could establish this, and it has been important not least for Norrland and Gotland. Then we have set aside additional resources for regional airports, and that is important. We have an investigation into the contingency airports. I urge everyone to read it, because it's exciting reading. The flight is important whether it concerns ambulances and fire planes or that we are able to get to loved ones, but it should also be able to handle the conversion. With that, I would like to wish Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm a pleasant summer and, of course, a continued strong commitment to aviation. I would also like to wish the President, the secretaries and all the rest of the Parliament a pleasant summer. This applies not least to the stenographers, who are doing an amazing job. Have a nice summer, and I'll see you at the barricades in the future!
