i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-8	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to enable Sweden to continue to tax-free renewable fuels. As I replied to Rickard Nordin on 4 December 2019 and Betty Malmberg on 18 December 2019, the government is working to ensure that there will be an opportunity to obtain state aid approval for tax exemption for highly mixed biofuels in the future. The current state aid approval for highly blended biofuels was decided by the European Commission in 2017 and is valid until the end of 2020. Sweden has been trying for several years to bring about a change in the EU approach to food-based biofuels, but the Commission has maintained its negative attitude towards the continued tax exemption for such biofuels. However, the new European Commission has recently presented a European Green Paper setting out various measures to achieve, among other things, the Union's climate and energy objectives. One of the measures is to recast the guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy. It is the Government's ambition to try to nuance the EU's view of food-based biofuels in this work too. Until this work is completed, it is important that the current tax exemption can be maintained, especially in view of the widespread presence of food-based biofuels in Swedish public transport. The government will thus continue to work to ensure that it will also be possible to obtain state aid approval for tax exemptions for renewable fuels after 2020. We have also been having a discussion with the European Commission for a long time. Jag has recently met the relevant Commissioners on this particular issue, and Sweden is pushing hard to maintain a tax exemption.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-13	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation. We know that we need to do a great deal more to quickly address the climate crisis that we are living in. We also know that the transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions. It is emissions that unfortunately do not decrease at the rate that they should do. Having renewable, sustainable fuels is one way to quickly reduce emissions here and now. Then these fuels must be cheap or at least not more expensive at a pump. Otherwise, it won't work. People will not buy e.g. ethanol, biogas or biodiesel. Today, many transport buyers and companies have happily set their own goals and said that they want to be fossil-free by 2030. I am talking, for example, about the forestry company Södra, Arla and Swedavia. All of this they have done within the Government's Fossil-free Sweden initiative. As the Minister for Finance mentioned, public transport is very important in this context. It runs with renewable fuels or electricity to about 90 percent of all its traffic. If we are not allowed to retain the tax exemption that we currently have for renewable fuels, it would be very difficult for public transport to run on, for example, biogas and biodiesel. It has been estimated that there will be an increased cost of about SEK 1 1⁄2 billion. If renewables are not continued, emissions will increase by about 11⁄2 million tonnes each year. If we are not allowed to retain our tax exemption for Swedish produced biofuels, it would be a bit of a death blow. Today, for example, there is Lantmännen Agroethanol in Norrköping, which produces ethanol from agricultural residues, Technical Works in Linköping, which is well our largest producer of biogas, and so on. It is very problematic that the EU has what is called state aid rules. In practice, this means a ban on state aid. It is these state aid rules that the government has been exempted from so that we can have a tax exemption for renewable fuels. It must nevertheless be more important to save the planet than to protect competition at any price. That is why it is good that the Minister for Finance says that the government is pushing hard for us to continue to have tax exemptions for renewable fuels. However, I would like to hear this about a little more concretely. When, for example, did the Minister of Finance raise the issue of safeguarding our tax reductions for renewables down in Brussels? She mentions that she has raised it with the relevant Commissioners. Could she be a little more specific in this context? About how many times has Sweden mentioned this? I would also like to know when we will receive a message from Brussels. We have a whole industry that really needs to have long-term rules of play. Unfortunately, then, it is not enough to extend our derogation by just one year, but we must have a long-term exception so that we know that we can continue to promote renewable fuels.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-23	Mr President, I would like to I very much appreciate Jens Holm's commitment to this issue, and I fully share it. It's great to listen to Jens Holm's argumentation about why this is so important. It is precisely an echo of what I myself put forward when I am in Brussels and meet with those responsible for the issues. It is good that there is such strong support from the Swedish Parliament and to have it in my back when I am in Brussels. That may be another argument to make. The government sees that it is absolutely necessary to do everything we can here and now to stop the climate change affecting the planet. This is not something that will only affect our children and grandchildren, but it affects us here and now. I'm sure Jens Holm and I have the same view of this. It's a new Commission now. I have raised this with the new Commissioners responsible for the matter. That is the first point I made with all the new Commissioners I have met. With regard to the Commissioner responsible for state aid issues, I have raised this issue on 100% of the occasions that I have met with her.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-26	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for that answer. When the Minister of Finance says that she has brought this up with the Commissioners responsible, I am naturally curious as to what the answer from them has been. The clock is really ticking. It is this year that this is decided. If we do not have an extension of our exemptions from EU state aid rules, renewable fuels will be taxed much higher. It will simply be a tax shock. It will be about several crowns at the pump, which in practice makes it impossible to continue driving as much on renewables as we do today, for example in public transport. Now there are fine visions from several companies that want to become fossil-free. It will be very difficult for them if we cannot protect this tax reduction. What has been the response from the European Commission when the Minister for Finance has raised this? Has the Minister of Finance said that it is not enough just to patch and fix with a year's extension and that we must have a long-term exception in order to safeguard renewables? That's the one thing I want answers to. As the Minister of Finance said in his speech, there is a debate in the EU about having completely new state aid rules. I think that is very welcome. On the one hand, the EU is putting forward its proposal on the new green gift, which is that the whole of Europe should change in a sustainable and reasonably fair way, that we should achieve our climate goals and that we should contribute to the solution and not be part of the problem. On the other hand, we have a number of legislative acts that make this important change difficult. For example, EU state aid rules are not at all in line with the ambitions we have in the field of environment and climate change. This renewable fuel business is just one thing. I can mention the area of transport, because I am chairman of Parliament's Transport Committee. There we are discussing a lot of the rail charges that we have to charge for rail traffic. We must do that because the European Union says so. For shipping we have pilot and fairway fees that are increased for each year. We cannot differentiate these so that we reward those who transport by sea in an environmentally friendly way. It is said to be the EU's so-called state aid rules that are laying the hook for us there too. When do we get new state aid rules? Does the Minister for Finance and the Government take the line that there should be a regulatory framework in which environmental and climate protection prevails over state aid and a unilateral approach to competition, as it stands today?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-34	Mr President, I would like to The need for a long-term solution to this issue is clear. There are several different parts of the EU acquis that would need to be changed. The first is the view of food-based biofuels at all. There, the Swedish view differs from that which is common in Europe. This could possibly be about access to large areas, which are different in Sweden from many other European countries. There it is now being discussed in what is called RED II what would be the alternative use of land. You grow various things that can then become biofuels, but that could also have become food. What is the alternative use? This will allow a more flexible approach to food-based fuels, depending on what would have been the alternative use of the land. It's a way forward. The second way forward is the Energy Taxation Directive, which is obsolete. This would need to be changed in order to be able to make reductions for climate-smart alternatives in a way that is not possible today. Sweden has pushed for this. Among other things, I myself was very involved in it four five years ago, when it was still up. Then no solution could be found. However, it is time to address the whole issue of the Energy Taxation Directive again. Given what has happened to the climate issue in these years, I hope that there is an opening for a solution that did not exist a few years ago. Then Jens Holm talked about the state aid rules. It is quite correct that they work in a way that does not benefit the conversion that they would have to do. At the same time, I think it is important to safeguard state aid rules. After all, we do not want a situation – in other areas – where different states in the EU are competing with each other to get different companies there by providing them with different forms of grants. It's not a good situation. But it is a question of reforming state aid rules in such a way that they enable climate change to take place. When, then, will the EU decide on our state aid exemption? It is not something that we decide in Sweden. What we can do is lie on. But I have stressed how important it is for us to be able to find out in time. Another thing that Sweden has done regarding the need for long-term solutions is the reduction obligation that is imposed on all that we think about. It has been important for the industry to have a long-term perspective in terms of production opportunities. However, I also see the need for a long-term approach to the highly involved.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-40	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister of Finance is addressing the Energy Taxation Directive, another Brussels law which complicates matters a little. The Minister of Finance says that we may be a little lonely on this issue. But I know that there are other countries in the EU that want to promote renewable fuels in a similar way to Sweden, such as France. As far as I know, France has used the 16th chapter of the Energy Taxation Directive, which says that fuel can be taxed differently. In this way, France may have a lower tax on renewable fuels. It may also be a track that you can look at when negotiating in Brussels. I wonder if this is something that the Minister of Finance has done. I find it very frustrating that we are not getting a clear message from the European Union. It is simply very important that the government puts its foot down and says: Now we have to have long-term rules of play, because we have a whole industry out here that wants to change. The industry must know what applies after 2020, that is, this year. It is very good that the Minister for Finance has now raised this issue in Brussels. I think it would have been even better if she had done it earlier than this year. It is also conceivable that the Prime Minister will raise this issue at the highest level, so that we in the European Union understand that we need to be able to continue to protect our renewable fuels in order to be able to switch. Saving the planet and fulfilling Europe's new green hand must nevertheless be the top priority for us to follow some paragraph in some state aid rules that are very outdated.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-43	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Jens Holm's view on this issue. We need long-term and clear rules of play. We need to get our state aid approval in the near future in order for us to have a security for the industry in the near future. But then we need a long-term solution to the issue. That is exactly what I have raised with the Commissioners responsible when I have met them. We need a short-term solution for Sweden, and we need long-term rules of play, so that the industry knows what applies in the long term. This is one of the most important issues we have to deal with here and now. Nothing can wait. The climate can't wait. We have to make the transition now, and this is an extremely important issue. That is exactly the message that I bring to you when I am in Brussels. It is about how we live here and now, but it is also about the future of our children and young people.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-45	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked me what concrete measures I and the government have taken to strengthen control and to counteract the abuse of the coordination number. I welcome the recent debate on the coordination number and the question that Jan Ericson has now asked. It is clear that knowledge of coordination numbers is very low in society. There is therefore reason to clarify what a coordination number is and what it is not. Coordination number is an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. A coordination number may be assigned at the request of an authority if that authority needs a number in its activities to avoid confusion or to exchange information about the person with other authorities or organisations. A coordination number does not confer any rights or benefits in itself. It is not the coordination number that justifies payments from the welfare system or gives the right to health care in Sweden. The coordination number is also not a work permit and does not give the right to enter Sweden or to stay here. Moreover, a coordination number is not sufficient for someone to open a bank account. Co-ordination numbers, on the other hand, fulfil an important function by, among other things, meeting the needs of authorities for an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden but who still need to be registered. There is a need even if there is uncertainty about the person's identity, for example when a person is to be registered in the suspicion register or in the tax database. For about half of all coordination numbers there is uncertainty about the identity of the person and the need for these so-called unruly coordination numbers by the authorities is therefore not insignificant. However, it is clear from the population register which numbers have been certified and which have not been verified. However, the system currently has shortcomings, and it is necessary to tighten up the rules in order for our registers to contain accurate and up-to-date information. Coordination numbers shall be correctly issued and persons who have been wrongly assigned a number shall be deregistered. The Ministry of Finance has therefore recently referred to a memorandum with proposals aimed at tightening up the coordination number system. This includes the possibility for persons with coordination numbers to be deregistered automatically after five years if a continued need for the number has not been notified. An individual who reports such a continued need shall be required to report in person. All persons assigned the coordination number before 2016 are proposed to be deregistered at the end of 2021, unless an authority or the individual has notified that there is a continued need for the number. However, cancellation should also be possible sooner than that. The Swedish Tax Agency is proposed to decide on cancellation if there are special reasons for it, for example if a person has been assigned a number on incorrect grounds. It also introduces a requirement that the current contact address of the individual should be reported to the Swedish Tax Agency. The proposals which have now been referred together constitute a reboot of the entire coordination number system. The restart is carried out in an orderly manner, taking into account the need to avoid confusion and to retain historical information. Finally, I would like to mention that the government has also set up an investigation to review the entire coordination number system. That investigation will report its mission no later than 1 April 2021.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-52	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, the media have made a number of revelations about the misuse of coordination numbers. It is a problem that seems to be much worse and more widespread than anyone could have imagined. The Swedish Tax Agency has for several years been alerting about systematic abuse of coordination numbers, and the same thing has been revealed in several reports, including in Swedish Television. There are currently close to 873,000 coordination numbers in Sweden, and the control of who has such numbers and their identity seems extremely weak. Today, Sweden simply lacks control over a large part of these coordination numbers – who all these people are, where they live and how many identities they have. Nor do we know how many people are staying illegally in the country, and the coordination number is also part of this problem. As has been said, how many individuals have several different coordination numbers at the same time is also unclear. We just don't know what's going on. In a review report from 2017, the Swedish National Audit Office concluded that the Swedish Tax Agency's work to maintain the quality of civil records is not carried out effectively. This increases, among other things, the risk of different types of welfare offences. The coordination numbers are clearly linked to the problems of unclear addresses and people with multiple addresses. At the same time, the coordination numbers can be used for abuse of benefit systems and welfare services, not least if one person has several different numbers. I have information directly from staff at the Employment Service who say that persons with coordination numbers are wrongly entitled to labour market measures, and social services staff have confirmed that persons with coordination numbers can wrongly receive financial assistance. This is often done through oversight or ignorance by administrators. Of course, if a person has several different coordination numbers, it is not impossible to obtain compensation in several municipalities. Payments to persons with coordination numbers are not so extensive today. However, according to a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service that I have ordered, there are still quite a few millions paid out to people with coordination numbers. The risk of increased abuse is evident if developments with increasingly unclear identities continue. Co-ordination numbers are also used demonstrably in pure crime, as has been shown by numerous media disclosures. Moreover, over-exploitation of social security systems is also currently part of organised crime. The Moderates have repeatedly called for strong action, better control and clearer cooperation between the authorities. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. With a little goodwill, one can possibly see that the government is taking the problem seriously, even if the proposal for action is flawed. It is also regrettable that the government has not acted in the past despite the fact that the issue has been high on the agenda for years. At the same time, the Minister of Finance's answer raises questions. Among other things, she mentions that the coordination numbers are needed to avoid confusion. She also says that for about half of all coordination numbers there is uncertainty about the person's identity. If you are unsure of the identity of persons, can the Minister explain how the coordination numbers can be used to avoid confusion? I also lack the answer to the question in my interpellation. I wrote it because I took note of the directives for the commission on the coordination number mentioned by the Minister of Finance in his reply. It appears from these directives that the purpose of the investigation appears to be to make it even easier to obtain a coordination number. For example, it is mentioned that more operators should be allowed to request coordination numbers and that more asylum seekers should be assigned coordination numbers. One could imagine that the government would instead focus fully on trying to address this social problem and tighten up control or at least make the management of coordination numbers more restrictive. Should not the clear objective of the investigation rather be to reduce the number of coordination numbers? It is a little strange that the very question in my interpellation about the purpose of the investigation is not even mentioned in the answer.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-64	Mr President, I would like to The Government has for several years worked in various ways on the issue of coordination numbers. Among other things, we have been informed in dialogue with the Swedish Tax Agency that there have been problems with this. We have also been informed that in some authorities there has been a failure in the handling of coordination numbers. For this reason, the Swedish Tax Agency has, among other things, carried out training courses with other authorities in order to ensure better the identity of the persons for whom they request the coordination numbers. In addition, it has made a new application in its computer system to ensure that the same ID documents cannot be used to obtain more coordination numbers. These are important measures. The government has also set up an investigation. It is about tightening up the coordination number system. However, we also get criticism from the EU that people who would need a coordination number in order to reside in Sweden in different ways or to have contacts with Sweden have difficulty getting it at their own request. This could include people from other EU countries who own a summer house in Sweden. Then what's the government doing? We've set up an investigation to review the entire coordination number system. It's an investigation that will be completed in a year. In addition, we have worked with a fast track. That fast track has essentially two parts. One means a reboot of the whole system where all the old coordination numbers will be automatically deregistered within five years unless they are explicitly needed. This means, in our opinion, that approximately 90% of all coordination numbers will be deregistered. In addition, we make the change that if a person who, for example, owns a summer cottage in Sweden wants a coordination number and needs a coordination number, it is a requirement for a personal cancellation in order to be able to get it and to have a fully proven identity. At the same time, as I have pointed out, there is a need for coordination numbers for persons who do not have a proven identity. It is mainly the police who need it for suspicion registers or for persons who are in custody or even in prison in Sweden. There the police need a coordination number. But it is very clear in the database that it is an unruly coordination number. The police themselves mean that these are the numbers they need. It is important that we have the coordination numbers in order. At the same time, the coordination number does not entitle to any benefit system per se. Most of the benefit systems we have are settlement-based. Then you need to be registered. If you are registered, you do not have a coordination number without a social security number. Then, of course, it is unfortunate if municipalities make mistakes in their treatment of supply aid. If this is the case, the municipalities obviously need to tighten up their procedures. Obviously, there are municipalities that need to do so. In particular, there are also authorities that clearly need to tighten up their procedures with regard to coordination numbers.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-73	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the RUT report I have received clearly shows that payments are made to people with coordination numbers from our social insurance systems. So this is happening today. The Minister of Finance says that 90% of the numbers are expected to be deregistered once the system has been re-established. It just shows how extremely bad things are today. On one question, I did not receive an answer from the Minister of Finance. She says in the interpellation response that you need the coordination numbers to avoid confusion and at the same time notes that for about half of all coordination numbers there is uncertainty about the person's identity. How can you avoid a person's confusion if you don't even know what kind of people have these numbers? It's a complete mystery to me. Mr President, I would like to Before Christmas, the Moderates presented a complete proposal for measures to overcome the coordination numbers. We require a personal report from the Swedish Tax Agency or other appropriate authority to obtain a coordination number. This already applies to personal identification numbers, and it is obviously also necessary for coordination numbers. We say that anyone who holds the coordination number by personal appearance with the Tax Agency or other appropriate authority should confirm their identity. The coordination numbers which are not confirmed within a one-year period are closed, unless there are specific reasons. We also say that biometric data must be used to make the identification of the holder of the document clearer. Similar requirements as for passports should therefore also be used for coordination numbers. This significantly reduces the risk of people acquiring more than one coordination number. Finally, the Moderates call for this reform to be in place and the legislative changes to come into force by 1 December 2020. The big problem with the government's proposal is that it takes far too long. It is envisaged that the first coordination numbers will be removed only by the end of 2021, and then it will take five years before all incorrect numbers have been cleared out. With the Moderates' proposal, all incorrect coordination numbers would be eliminated by the end of next year. In his reply, it is true that the Minister of Finance says that in some cases it should be possible to go faster than five years. The Swedish Tax Agency must be able to decide on cancellation if there are special reasons for it, for example if a person has been assigned a number on incorrect grounds. But how will the Tax Agency detect this without first investigating the person's identity? And how do you discover if individuals have multiple coordination numbers if they do not use biometrics? It is not possible to check identity otherwise, and the government has no such proposal. It is completely incomprehensible how to solve this and how the Tax Agency should be able to do this thinning prematurely. I can only say that the Moderates' proposals go much further than those of the government. We want to see faster measures, we want to see personal cancellation to verify existing numbers and we want to use biometrics in the same way as for passports. We also want to do this quickly, so that all the invalid coordination numbers are gone by the end of next year. With the government's proposal, it will take at least five years, perhaps even longer, before this problem has been resolved.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-84	Mr President, I would like to The problem with the Moderates' proposal is that it would cause chaos on our authorities and probably make the police's work to fight crime more difficult. A coordination number is not necessarily something that an individual wants. That may be the case, but the reason we have the coordination number is that the authorities need it for their work. There are people with coordination numbers who do not want a coordination number. They would much rather be unregistered in Sweden. If we were to require the personal cancellation of all the coordination numbers, how could the authorities that need the coordination numbers of their databases register people who do not want to appear? Then we would run the risk of it being the same as before, when the authorities made their own systems of identification of persons. It would most likely be much more complicated for the authorities. Nor would they be able to exchange information with each other, which would risk making law enforcement work more difficult. How to avoid a person's confusion with the unidentified persons? I assume that people are not confused, especially with those who are identified. How the police then avoid personal confusion with those who are in the suspicion register and do not have a clear identity, I think the police can best answer for themselves. As far as social insurance payments are concerned, a state inquiry has looked at whether the coordination numbers are widely used for such payments, and its assessment is that they are not large amounts. However, every small amount is a major problem from my point of view. Most state aids we have are settlement-based. You do not automatically get them if you have a coordination number, because it requires a population register and a personal identity number. When it comes to how individual social services do out in the municipalities, it is of course a problem for the municipalities if they pay undue support to people who are not supposed to receive subsistence support. At the same time, we know that some municipalities choose to pay support to people who do not have the right to reside in the country. Local authorities have the right to decide, and they must, of course, answer to their residents for why they make such decisions.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-89	Mr President, I would like to So if you believe the Minister for Finance, we have 870 000 suspects in Sweden. I don't believe it. In addition, she herself says that 90% of these numbers are expected to be lost even with the government's proposal. And how it could cause chaos to demand in a year's time that those people who really want a coordination number report and confirm their identity, at least I cannot understand. Then I wonder how to exchange information about a person if you do not know who it is or how many different coordination numbers the person has. It must be extremely difficult for authorities to exchange information about these people. I repeat the Moderates' proposal for a solution: it will require a personal report from the Tax Agency or other appropriate authority to obtain a coordination number. Anyone who has a coordination number must report to the Swedish Tax Agency within one year and prove their identity; otherwise the number will be lost. Biometric data shall be used to ensure identification of the holder of the number. This should be done so that we have all the pieces in place already on 1 December 2020. It doesn't help what the Minister of Finance says. The government's proposal takes far too long. It is envisaged that the first coordination numbers will be removed only by the end of 2021, and then it will take five years before all the 90 per cent of the numbers that the Minister of Finance says are wrong and are now being misused and used for crime and abuse of welfare systems. Unfortunately, the government is following a defined line. All important societal problems are hidden in long-term investigations or promised long-term measures. You don't have the power to act. When the Moderates presented an extraordinary amending budget, the government came a few days later with its own proposal. When we put forward proposals for stricter rules for labour immigration, the government came two days later with its own proposal for an investigation. It is the same on this issue. We are now presenting a sharp proposal that can enter into force quickly, and the government's proposal is to conduct a long investigation that takes a lot of time.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-95	Mr President, I would like to It is fortunate that there is no parliamentary majority for the Moderates' proposals on this issue. That would cause chaos on our authorities. Personal cancellation assumes that persons with a coordination number want a coordination number. There are many people who have a coordination number who do not want a coordination number or may not even know that they have a coordination number. The reason they do is because our authorities need coordination numbers. Jan Ericson is a little careless here, as can be done in opposition, a proposal without considering the consequences for our authorities at all. There was a time before we had the coordination number. The reason we introduced coordination numbers was that it did not work well. In addition, many were given similar social security numbers at the time, so that it became unclear who really had a social security number and who didn't. Jan Ericson is wrong when he says we're making a first thinning in 2021. The Swedish Tax Agency will be able to get rid of incorrect coordination numbers long before then. Jan Ericson is also wrong when he says that 90% will be culled eventually. The assessment is that 90 percent will disappear by the end of 2021. The reason for this is not that so many are wrong, but that the legislation that was introduced made the coordination numbers eternal. That is why there are very many unused coordination numbers left in the registers. As for the slowness of welfare money on the part of the Moderates, you can't help but pull the smilbands. The Moderates led the government for eight years and reduced the tax by 140 billion and added municipalities and regions, welfare, 20 billion. So that was seven times more in tax cuts than in welfare. When another budget was passed in Parliament, it was 20 billion in tax cuts that were the most important again. It is a big difference from the government that has contributed so much money to this sector that there are 100,000 more people working there compared to when the Moderates ruled the country. And that is only the beginning, because there will be more as long as we Social Democrats sit in the government.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-99	Mr President, I would like to Mr Palmqvist has asked me whether the taxation of Class II passenger cars is reasonable and whether a change in the refund rules in the event of cancellation is a satisfactory solution. He has also asked whether I see any negative consequences or consequential problems as such a solution should be available and whether, if so, I intend to take measures to exclude Class II passenger cars from the bonus – the Malus system. As I said in writing in previous answers to Eric Palmqvist on questions about the motor home tax, the technological development towards more environmentally friendly vehicles should be stimulated in the case of new car purchases also for motor homes, in the same way as for ordinary passenger cars and light vans. Class II passenger cars are not purely recreational equipment, but can be used both as transport vehicles and as residential and recreational vehicles. It is reasonable that motor homes should be taxed on their emissions, in the same way as the other light-duty vehicles, when they are driven. However, they are driven on average less than other vehicles. It is therefore important that motorhome owners can set off their vehicle and not be charged tax when the vehicle is set off. In order to make it easier for motorhome owners, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to investigate more flexible and favourable terms for repayment of tax in the event of cancellation. The mandate includes assessing and reporting the impact of the proposals. If the vehicle tax is only charged for the days on which the motorhome is placed, the vast majority of motorhome owners will pay significantly less tax than Eric Palmqvist fears. For example, a person who has his camper imposed 40 days in one year would then pay less than SEK 3,300 in tax if the annual vehicle tax is SEK 30,000.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-102	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. Passenger car class II is a vehicle type which is permanently fitted with a living space, including fixed seats, sleeping places, tables and cooking equipment. The vehicle type is called a mobile home in everyday terms, and for the sake of simplicity I will call it that in this debate as well. Motorhomes are to ask straight as intended mainly for camping and recreation, and they bring great joy and quality of life to many families who choose to camp and vacation around our beautiful country instead of going to remote tourist destinations where you have to take the flight. Because of their construction, caravans are not suitable for either goods transport or for driving to work, kindergarten or supermarkets, although of course they can. However, as the Minister for Finance points out, they can be used as transport vehicles, it seems a bit like trying to confuse the cards. Until a couple of three years ago, this vehicle type had a vehicle tax which, compared to other types of vehicle, could be considered to be entirely reasonable. A newly registered normal motorhome's vehicle tax was then about SEK 5 000 a year, but with the introduction of the bonus system – malus on 1 July 2018 it increased to about SEK 15 000 for the same type of vehicle. This is despite the fact that in this category of vehicles there are no bonus cars to choose from, and neither will it be in the foreseeable future. Already with the introduction of bonus – the Malus system for passenger car class II, i.e. motor homes, we began to excel in a European context. From taxing mobile homes at about the same level as Germany, for example, we went to have one of the highest taxes among comparable countries. But that was not enough for the government. As if an increase from SEK 5 000 to SEK 15 000 per year was not enough, the government chose to include mobile homes in the new WLTP rules for the calculation of issues. This is something we are not forced to do and that several other EU countries have chosen not to do. The introduction of the WLTP rules together with the bonus – the malus system is a complete poison cocktail for motorhomes. We are now talking suddenly about vehicle taxes of 30 000 – 40 000 SEK a year for a new motor home of the same type and size that a few years ago cost its owners about 5 000 SEK a year in tax. Added to this is increased fuel taxes and a proposal to introduce a tourist tax. Mr President, I would like to The unfairly high taxes that would affect the motorhome owners as a consequence of government policy caused massive criticism – rightly so. It was such a massive criticism that the government was finally forced to take half a step back and start carpentry on a system in which these vehicles, as the only vehicle type, can be set off and on the basis of how they are used as a sort of attempt to smooth over the consequences of a fundamentally insane way of calculating the tax. A very relevant question is thus: what does the government want to achieve by introducing a uniquely high vehicle tax on passenger car class II? It is a type of vehicle intended for leisure and recreation and cannot be blamed, by its method of use, for accounting for accumulated emissions that can justify such a tax increase.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-110	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but interfere in this interpellation debate a little, because I have spent almost my entire adult life on vehicles and have also worked in the automotive industry for many years. I do not think anyone is saying anything about having environmentally friendly vehicles, but it is absolutely clear that we have to go that way. However, introducing a tax that is extremely effective in slowing down the transition to more efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles is an equation that I cannot put together. In the case of passenger car class II, the camper, there is no alternative. You can't run on electricity, because there's no commercial solution to it yet. There is a German manufacturer who has developed a modest production of electric motor homes, but these are very few vehicles. So that's not the option, and it's just a malus system and no bonus. The remarkable effect that also arises in this is that if you buy a mobile home that is diesel-powered and instead drive on a renewable fuel, such as HVO, the car is considered to be environmentally friendly from the first mile. Yet I go on a tax of 33 000 kroner a year. I also drive at HVO there is not an electric car in the world that can compare with that engine from an efficiency point of view. The treasure beats blindly and very strangely. I think that the government should take a look and do a major audit of the entire bonus – the Malus system, because it has the opposite effect to what we really want to achieve: a fleet of vehicles that is environmentally friendly. In my next speech, I will go into a few calculation examples that show what happens when you behave on this tax issue as the government does. I read an article from February 6 which is quite interesting. It takes the line that the diesel engine is by far the most environmentally friendly option if it is run on renewable fuel. There is no other engine whose efficiency can be compared to that of a diesel engine – if you exclude the electric motor, because it has the highest efficiency, but it requires an energy source that is either renewed at all times or charged. The article clearly states that this is the solution to be followed. If you want to get a rapid effect from the environmental focus, it is the diesel engine that applies. If we look at the registration made last year, we can see that the share of petrol engines on the market is increasing. As a result, we have achieved more CO2 emissions in Sweden than we should reasonably have. The government's tax policy on vehicles thus has the opposite effect to the objective that we all need to pursue. My question to the Minister for Finance is given: Are you going to review and rework the entire bonus – the Malus system?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-118	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell's reasoning is interesting. The vehicle tax does not regulate in such a way that what is in the tank, renewable or ordinary diesel, makes a difference. An alternative way is to control only according to what you have in the tank. It's quite possible. Then we could remove the vehicle tax and, instead, steer only on the basis of what you have in mind. In that case, then, we would increase the tax on petrol and diesel. I don't know if Thomas Morell thinks it would be a better way to run things. If so, it would be interesting information for the House. If you do not think it is the question of how Thomas Morell thinks it should be managed instead, whether it should not be through vehicle taxation, but also through CO2 taxation. It is quite correct that there are no motorhomes that have such low emissions that you can get a bonus. However, there will be different emissions from different motorhomes. This means that even motorhome owners can choose a motorhome that releases less than one that emits more. It is also important to put this tax in relation to the costs of having a camper. If you use a camper 40 days a year and have a tax of about 3,000, this applies for three years. Then it will be perhaps 1 percent of what it costs to buy a new motorhome. For everyone who looks at the debate, it is important to know that this is not about people who today own campers, but about buying a new camper. So it does not affect anyone who owns a camper today. Motorhome is something that many people in Sweden have great pleasure in. It has the amazing quality that it is both a means of transport and a fantastic holiday home for many people. The government wants to ensure that when you don't use it, when it's off or standing still, you don't pay any vehicle tax for it. That is what we want to make easier.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-124	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for that answer. I understand the government's view that it is perfectly reasonable for motorhome owners to pay a vehicle tax that is in line with the environmental burden of motor homes. But the problem is that, in the case of motor homes, taxation is not at all in line with the environmental burden. How can it be that, for example, trucks of 60 tonnes that drive tens of thousands of miles a year pay much less tax? The same applies to buses and even motor homes so large that they are built on truck chassis. For these you pay lower vehicle tax than for normal motor homes. This means that the government rewards the really big motorhomes that release the most. In addition, I can inform the Minister of Finance that there is already a tax that correlates with how much we use our vehicles: fuel tax. There you have a steering that is directly related to how much fuel a vehicle consumes and how much it is used. Why should the motorhome be an exception by being taxed in such a way that the owner is forced to set off and on the vehicle every time it is to be moved? I am among those who believe in signal politics. I am among those who encourage people to vote with their feet, for example by changing banks or insurance companies when interest, fees or premiums are too high. I apologise to the President; we are not talking about insurance. But I would like to draw a parallel to the answer I once received from an insurance company, when I had been offered a huge premium on a car: they did not want to insure that type of car. In the case of taxes on motor homes, therefore, the only reasonable interpretation I can make is that the government wants to punish motor homes. It is not a vehicle type or holiday form you want to stimulate. This interpretation has obviously also been made by buyers. New sales of motorhomes have increased throughout the EU, but they have dived in Sweden. Our only domestic motor home producer, Kabe i Småland Tenhult, has been forced to give notice of staff, and traders with whom I have been in contact state that they have either been given staff or to change their business. This is a worrying development. And this development depends on the government's policy of signaling. The government is happy to point the finger at those who fly and rightly problematise the emissions from the large passenger ships operating in our waters. At the same time, through an unprecedented increase in vehicle taxation in our part of the world, the government is now in danger of making prospective motorhome buyers spend their money on flights to distant countries or cruises with large passenger ships. These people will not stop travelling but will choose other ways to get experiences. It's extremely bad. I believe that the tourism industry is important for Sweden and that we should protect it. It generates jobs and tax revenues for Sweden. I hope that the Minister for Finance shares that view. Mr President, I would like to I would like the Minister of Finance to clarify and explain the government's view of the future of camping as a holiday form for holiday-making Swedish families and what a positive outcome it believes will be with the signal policy.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for both the answer and the question. No, the Swedish Democrats are not in favour of imposing more taxes on fuel. We have enough taxes on fuel. If we are to have a faster transition, we should instead move in the opposite direction. My colleague mentioned the difference between a heavy vehicle and a camper. That difference becomes apparent when we look at tax rates. If I choose to buy a truck from Scania or Volvo, the heaviest model they produce, I get a tax of 13 600 SEK. That's what I'll have to pay if I rebuild a car like that into a camper. But if I buy a camper from Kabe, which is considerably lighter, I will have to pay 33 000 kronor in tax. At home we are about to change cars. Ever since the catalyst was introduced in 1987, I have been driving environmentally friendly vehicles. But now we see the effect of the government bonus – Malus system. Today I have a diesel car. It draws somewhere around 0.55 - 0.60 per mile. If I were to buy myself a hybrid car, for which I receive a tax bonus of 60,000 when I purchase it, my consumption increases by about 2 deciliters per mile. The time that the hybrid car runs on electricity is so small that I increase my consumption by 2 deciliters per mile. That's 400 liters a year. But I still get tax bonuses because I buy a so-called environmentally friendly vehicle, although the vehicle I have today is significantly better from an environmental point of view. I can't get that economy together. The government has done a thought-worship here. We do not understand the consequences of the tax policy we are pursuing. It has the opposite effect.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-138	Mr President, I would like to We hear once again a Swedish democrat arguing that it is difficult to understand it otherwise than that the solution to the problems is an increase in petrol tax. I take note of this. What's the purpose of bonus-malus, for all cars? It's that you should choose a car that emits less. That also applies to campers. On the other hand, the motorhome has special characteristics that make it easier to set off its motorhome, so that you do not have to pay vehicle tax when it is cancelled. Already around 80 per cent of motorhomes are set aside around the turn of the year. I guess a lot more will be. If you use a camper in the way many do, that is, about 40 days a year, the increased tax rate is 3 000 SEK a year over three years, 10 000 SEK over three years, for a new camper that costs about 1 million.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-142	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister for Finance believes that motorhomes as the only vehicle type should be set off and on the basis of how they are used. This shows that it does not really understand how different cars can be used and what consequences the proposed solution could have. Some stay on a remote campsite for weeks and make short excursions to fishing waters, fairgrounds or museums. Others drive to buy food, exchange gas tube or simply buy supplies that are not available at the campsite. The fact that a vehicle type is driven a few miles a year does not mean that all the miles are driven in one sweep, but that they can be driven rather sporadicly. It is therefore few miles but many days of use. I am concerned that the Minister for Finance, who states that she herself has tried the life of a motor home, has so little understanding of the consequences of the proposed solution. What happens if you drive up to the mountains with your camper, where cell phone coverage is missing? Should you put it off before you lose cell service and drive illegally the last piece? Or should you drive back and set off the one where you had cell service? What do insurance companies say if the car is involved in an accident at the campsite? There may be someone backing up against it, or there may be something else going on. You may have to move the vehicle within the campsite. Something may happen, and the vehicle is off. How do you think compliance will be when some stand a little apart on a campsite and are going to drive 6 – 7 kilometers to, for example, a small shop to bunker up? Do you think they will turn on their vehicle or drive illegally that piece? To come up with rules on how to put on and off these vehicles is to cover up the consequences of a fundamentally completely insane model for the calculation of the tax, and that is politics when it is at its worst. Two errors, then, will not be a right. I still wonder what the government wants to achieve with this tax. Is there the political will to change and do the right thing when it actually seems to have realised the unreasonable consequences of the new tax rules?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-149	Mr President, I would like to I must say that this is one of the strangest debates I have had in Parliament. There are two Swedish democrats who seem to think that we need to change the car fleet and that we need to reduce our emissions and who are arguing forcefully as if the right way forward was to increase the CO2 tax, i.e. the petrol tax and the diesel tax. That's very interesting. I've tried my own camper life myself. It's a great way to vacation. It is an incredible freedom to be able to drive around with your own house. You can both drive and vacation, and you can stop to wherever you want, not least in Sweden. Considering the fantastic nature and all the untouched lakes that we have around Sweden, motorhome life is a fantastic opportunity. Many people also use a camper. Given that motor homes are used differently from other vehicles, the government sees that there is reason to make it easier when it comes to motor homes, so that you do not have to pay taxes in the way that you need to do for other cars that are used all year round. Now it sounds a bit at Eric Palmqvist like that people vacation for months in a row at different campsites. But in my calculation example, where the increased vehicle tax would be about 1 percent of the new car price for a camper, we assume that you can be at a campsite for four weeks – even five weeks – without having to pay more than perhaps 3 000 SEK over three years in tax for a car that costs around 1 million to buy. I hope, of course, that Swedes continue to buy motorhomes, partly because we have Swedish manufacturers, partly because it is not least a fantastic way to vacation.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-154	Mr President, I would like to Ingemar Kihlström has asked me if the Swedish Customs Agency has been given any mandate to submit proposals for changes in the authority's powers and whether the Swedish Customs Agency is included with active participation in the group that looks closely at constitutional changes. First of all, I would like to say that the government is still determined to fight back against international theft leagues. People and businesses are being hit hard, and we should not tolerate that. As early as early 2018, the government therefore presented an offensive package of measures in this area. As part of the package of measures, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard have been commissioned by the Government to strengthen the fight against international crime networks that commit criminal offences in Sweden. The assignment includes analysing whether the authorities through closer collaboration between them may make it difficult for foreign theft leagues to commit crimes in Sweden. I know from the experience of the excise duty mission, when the so-called liquor buses were knocked out, that we can reach a long way when the authorities work purposefully and take advantage of each other's strengths and when the whole toolbox is activated. As always, how the authorities have chosen to carry out this mission has been up to them. The mission will be reported next Friday, and I look forward to seeing what the authorities have jointly arrived at. If they believe that there is a need for a change in conditions for them to be able to combat international crime networks more effectively, and if this requires a change of legislation in order to implement it, then we will review it. But we are not prepared to abandon the important task of the Customs Department to stop weapons, drugs and explosives from entering the country. I would like to conclude by saying that in recent years the government has invested heavily in the Customs Agency, which has received large increases in its funding. In 2018, the Government gave the Swedish Customs the largest increase in funding in ten years, a total of SEK 187 million. 115 million of the 187 million were to increase customs controls at the border. In 2019, the Swedish Customs Agency received a strengthening in the Swedish Parliament's budget of SEK 90 million, including to enable the Swedish Customs Agency to strengthen border protection and employ more employees. This year, the Swedish Customs Agency has received a sustained increase of SEK 110 million, and we will propose an additional SEK 10 million in 2020, among other things, in order to increase the presence at the borders. Overall, the efforts made by the Government have improved the Swedish Customs' ability to act at the borders.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-159	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. Unfortunately, it is not as complete as I would have liked. International crime networks account for a large part of the offence in Sweden. The Police Authority estimates that international crime networks account for almost half of the housing breaches and almost all organised thefts of, for example, passenger cars, car parts and boat engines. International crime networks are also responsible for extensive shoplifting, pocket theft and old age crimes. The success of thefts costs victims and insurance companies billions of dollars annually. This also contributes to increased insecurity and rising frustration over the inability of the authorities to address the problem. Effective and strategic surveillance of exit points would have a major impact on the gangs' ability to act and commit crimes in Sweden. As the Minister for Finance mentions in his reply, the Minister for Justice gave a commission in 2018 to the Police Authority, the Coast Guard and the Customs Agency to strengthen the fight against international crime networks. It will be reported in one week, February 14th. Part two states that the authorities have jointly set up a working group to produce proposals for constitutional changes. Magdalena Andersson said this in an interpellation debate: During the implementation of the mission, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard have identified measures that may facilitate the work of the authorities and also look at the possible need for changes to the legislation. Unfortunately, however, there are worrying signals. In public contexts this autumn, representatives of mission authorities have stated that only the Police Authority participates in the working group looking at proposals for constitutional changes. The Finnish Customs and Coast Guard are therefore not involved in the working group that is to propose changes that need to be made in order for it to be more effective work against international criminal offences – this applies to gangs that steal from companies and individuals in our country. There is also information that the Customs Service considers that it has not been given any mandate to propose changes to the powers of the authorities. One might wonder whether this is the background to the lack of interest in participation in the working group. Such a specific assignment is also lacking in the assignment that Morgan Johansson gave to the authorities. The work against theft gangs is an important task for our legal society. It is therefore necessary for authorities to cooperate but also for further measures to be taken to break the escalating trend in the activities of theft leagues in Sweden. The Customs Agency is an authority that can contribute important efforts in this work, and I can see the need for both changed rules and a clearer and extended mission description to make customs' work more efficient. It is therefore worrying that there are signals that customs is not actively involved in making concrete proposals for change. This increases the risk that the report that will be published in a week's time will not take the holistic approach needed to repress the activities of the gangs of theft. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to reiterate my questions to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, who is ultimately responsible for customs in his role as Minister: Is it the Minister's view that the Swedish Customs Administration has a mandate from the Government to propose changes to the authority's powers? Can the Minister, who is ultimately responsible, confirm that the Customs Agency is actively involved in the group that looks closely at constitutional changes? . Does the Minister expect proposals regarding the task and activities of the Customs Agency to be included in the final report due on 14 February?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-169	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his reply and also for the priority given to the government's budgetary efforts, that is to say that this is considered an urgent issue. However, I become somewhat hesitant when I read the regulatory letters that the alliance government wrote and compare them with the regulatory letters that the current government has added to the Customs Agency. In the regulation letter dated December 2012, i.e. the regulation letter for 2013, which was the last year that the alliance government ruled, the overall goal is very clear that the Customs Agency will contribute to a well-functioning society for citizens and business and to combat crime. It states that crime in the customs field should be prevented and combated. It also says that the Customs Agency will limit organised and large-scale crime. These wordings do not exist in the regulatory letter dated 19 December 2019 for the financial year 2020. On the other hand, it says that in contacts with the agency, women and men should be given equal opportunities and conditions. It also states that it should report on the results of the gender mainstreaming measures taken to ensure that the Agency's activities contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the gender equality policy. If crime is found in one place, the Swedish Customs Agency will report on how the agency has strengthened its efforts to prevent crime in connection with the entry and exit of goods. However, it says only how to prevent and not how to combat crime. However, this is the authority responsible for protecting the Swedish border against the introduction of narcotics and weapons and also against the export of stolen goods. Mr President, I would like to My fellow Member Ingemar Kihlström explained here what some of theft sequences look like. "Snack table" is one of the Swedish words that have been exported to the international vocabulary. Right now it is used as a concept to describe a Sweden where international leagues can come and take advantage of what they want. We had in June last year 44 reported crimes in Halland, if we limit ourselves there. It was theft from farmers – drilling machines, GPS equipment and hundreds of gallons of diesel that were taken by criminal foreign leagues and taken out of the country. According to the Swedish Boat Union, approximately 2,000 outboard engines are taken out of the country every year to a value of SEK 200 – 300 million. There are enormous amounts of money being taken out of our country, and people are getting hurt because of the crime that is allowed to ravage. My question to the Government is: What does the government mean when it says that it has a strong, offensive package of measures, when it withdraws the task of combating crime in the regulatory letter?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-178	Mr President, I would like to Customs and other authorities are governed not only by regulatory letters but also by the instructions. In the instruction to the Swedish Customs, it is clear that the Swedish Customs Agency is one of our law enforcement agencies that operates law enforcement operations with greater power than under the alliance government, because we have made very extensive contributions to the Swedish Customs Agency. Additional staff are being hired, and this week we were told that the Swedish Customs Administration will open a new office in Gävle. The Customs Department has an incredibly important work to do to stop the introduction of weapons, drugs and explosives used by organised crime in the country. Customs is part of several multi-agency collaborations to stop crime. An example of a very successful one was when the Swedish Customs, together with other authorities, stopped the so-called liquor buses that, during the alliance years, rolled in across the country's borders. We must also stop what is rolling out across the country's borders. Foreign theft leagues are a major problem. That is why the government gave the commission to cooperate between authorities to find new ways and use the whole toolbox of bureaucracy to stop the criminal gangs stealing. It should also be possible to make proposals for changes, including constitutional changes. The information I have received from Customs is that they have participated in the working group looking at constitutional changes, and we will, of course, see what proposals this group will be presenting next week. It is important to say that it is not the case that you have not worked during the duration of the assignment; on the contrary, it has been an ongoing assignment in such a way that you should work during the duration of the assignment and, of course, continue to work after the assignment has been completed.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-183	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that cooperation between law enforcement authorities needs to be further strengthened. We want every authority that is part of the joint cooperation against organised crime to have a clear mandate in the regulation letter that clearly states that the work is a priority. The Customs Department is not an authority under the police, but they still have an important law enforcement function. The Swedish Customs Agency has undergone major changes since Sweden became a member of the EU. But freedom of movement within the EU, which for good must not mean that Swedish borders are unprotected. We Christian Democrats want to strengthen customs law enforcement and border protection. The Customs Office is currently too heavily focused on being a tax authority, which means that its main task is to control the importation of excise goods and to collect taxes. Customs is also looking for drugs and illegal weapons. But you have too little authority. This is part of a chain that has led Sweden to be called a smorgasbord, just as Marcus Jonsson mentioned, for international theft leagues. Customs is forced to watch suspicious stolen goods leave the country and have no mission to check the exit. Customs needs to become, to a greater extent, a border protection authority that can prosecute all types of offences at the border. In particular, the export of goods should be subject to much stricter controls. Our borders have become increasingly porous, even though we find ourselves geographically in a favourable situation with long coastlines. The Christian Democrats believe that the Customs Agency should be given a clearer mission to control, stop and perhaps also detain people at the border. Most concretely, it means that customs should check passports and other entry documents to a greater extent than today. Customs' sharper powers of detention will give them better opportunities to control the entry and exit of goods and people in the country. We want to strengthen Customs' powers through a number of reforms. The Act on the Swedish Customs Authority's powers at the Swedish border with another country should be amended so that stolen and stolen goods are included in the goods that the Finnish Customs can control at the border. Today, international theft leagues can carry out goods with impunity, and customs can only watch. Customs also needs, as I mentioned, to be given the power to detain suspects. In December 2018, the Government announced that new legislation should be adopted that gives the Customs Authority the power to stop and search vehicles to prevent the exit of stolen goods. However, the government has not yet come back with proposals for legislation or announced when it will. Mr President, I would like to It is a fact that the reinforcement that Customs received in 2019 is based on the notorious napkin sketch, i.e. the M-KD budget, which strengthened Customs and gave it more opportunity to strengthen border protection. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask you a few supplementary questions. Does the Minister of Finance believe that the Customs Agency's regulatory letter should be supplemented by a clearer mandate to actively work against theft gangs at our border? How does the government intend, as it now receives the report, to respond to the announcement from the Riksdag 2018 that new legislation should be adopted that gives the Customs Authority the power to stop and search vehicles to prevent the export of stolen goods?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-195	Mr President, I would like to I think that the Minister for Finance is probably better off than we were given the impression when it was said that the wording of the letter of regulation is not so important. As Mrs Kihlström said, the description of the budget has gone from napkin sketches to the M-KD budget with the support of the Swedish Democrats to now being the budget decided by the Riksdag in the response from the Minister for Finance. Surely it is an upgrade of the budget document itself, which actually gave the Customs 90 million extra. Of course, there's a difference between priorities. As I mentioned, crime is written out twenty times in the 2013 regulation letter. Compare this with the regulation letter that applies for 2020, where crime is printed three times, as many times as the word gender equality, because the government wants to prioritise gender equality and examine it more in comparison with crime. Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance says that it is an ongoing task to combat stolen goods. Then we can read in the annual report from the Swedish Customs Agency for the 2018 year. Once the word stolen goods is mentioned, and it is in the assignment that the work has received together with the other authorities and will be reported next Friday. On the other hand, the word gender equality is mentioned 16 times, and it has been identified that men are mentioned 246 times. When it comes to how many men and women there are who stop entry or exit in the country, the most important thing is not which sex the person has that stops this or which sex it is on the person committing a crime. What is important is that crimes are prosecuted and that the Swedish border is secured.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-199	Mr President, I would like to The Customs Department is one of our law enforcement agencies. There is no doubt about that. On the other hand, the police are responsible for theft goods. It's the police main area. Above all, you should prosecute theft. Then you have to think too carefully and do a proper analysis. If the Swedish Customs Agency is to have a mission to actively control stolen goods in transports out of the country, the Swedish Customs needs new resources, additional resources. This is because Customs is currently using all its resources. Much is being done to stop the introduction of weapons, drugs and explosives. It is an important job, as it is used in organised crime by serious criminal gangs. In other words, the Customs Agency needs additional resources, and we have to ask ourselves: if we are going to provide additional resources, what is the best thing to do? What is the most effective way to stop theft gangs? Is it that the police get those resources to stop the theft before they do, or is it that customs get those resources to try to stop the goods when they are stolen? This needs to be considered. I assume that the Christian Democrats have done so and have concluded that it is much better to put resources on customs than on the police. I think it is important to prevent the theft in the first place. But, of course, I am open to discussing whether anything else would be more effective. I would like to know what fundamental analysis is on which the Christian Democrats' firm opinion on this issue rests.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-203	Mr President, I would like to Customs should be given a clearer and expanded task in its work at our country's borders to meet international theft leagues' activities in Sweden. With regard to what the Minister is asking, Mr President, I think we can do both. It is important to strengthen the role of the police in order to increase security in our country. But the situation we have today, when borders are open outwards and customs with the function it has today can only look at, cannot continue. It is a fact that both individuals and entrepreneurs are severely affected both economically and operationally when theft leagues act in our country. I would like to conclude with an example from reality. This week I met an Ica dealer who has his business near a border in our country. He has several times suffered burglary and theft with high costs and a major impact on the business as a result. His direct message to me was to ensure that customs tightens up control at the border because the stolen goods from his shop leave Sweden this way. It is a problem that he shares with many citizens and businesses in our country. We wish to see an expanded mission and, of course, increased resources for the Töllverket plant. The time has come for us to make the flow of stolen goods out across borders more difficult by giving a clear law enforcement mission to the Customs Agency. I would urge the Government to listen to Parliament's announcement and extend the mandate to the Swedish Customs Agency in clear directives so that the Swedish Customs Authority becomes the active party needed to stop international theft leagues' activities in Sweden. It is a responsibility we have for our citizens and our entrepreneurs.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-208	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, there was no analysis. We can see that. If you are making a big change in an authority's activities and you are going to provide very extensive additional resources, I think you should base it on a proper analysis. Here the Christian Democrats have sat on their Chamber and thrown forward an idea. I'm not saying it's a bad idea, but if you're going to make such a big change, you should know what you're doing. That's how we Social Democrats run politics. I can also note that the Christian Democrats are in the speaker's chair trying to ridicule what has been a very successful strategy for working with gender equality, namely mainstreaming, where we ensure that we work with gender equality in all the authorities and in all the activities of the government. This is how Sweden has become one of the most equal countries in the world. Here the Christian Democrats stand and ridicule the methodology. It says something about what the Christian Democrats are for a party on the right-wing populist line that has now been chosen to go on, in line with the regimes that we see in Hungary, Poland and the United States. It's good for everyone to know.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-211	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if the government is keeping documents of various security classifications about Raoul Wallenberg and what measures the government has taken to ensure that the truth about Wallenberg's disappearance will come to light and when they have been taken. Raoul Wallenberg personifies the Swedish work for human rights, and his work continues to inspire people of all ages and different origins. The ceremony held in Stockholm on 17 January, 75 years after his disappearance, took place in the square named in his memory and was noted far beyond our borders. As Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs, it was an honour to speak to the assembled people that day. Much is still unclear as to the fate of Raoul Wallenberg in the Soviet Union of Stalin. Over the years, the government has worked to create the greatest possible clarity in his case through dialogue with the Soviet Union and Russia and in cooperation with other states. Sweden has consistently requested all available documentation regarding Raoul Wallenberg. A very detailed analysis of the actions of the Russian and Swedish public administration, including their own Swedish shortcomings, has taken place. In 2001, the Swedish part of the Swedish-Russian working group presented a report after ten years of work, and in 2003 the report A Diplomatic Failure was published. With the Government's decision of 22 August 2019, approximately 40,000 pages of documents were released during the period 1970– 2018, from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' case of Raoul Wallenberg. Since earlier, all documents from the period before 1970 had been published. The review of confidentiality prior to the release in 2019 was among the most comprehensive that the government has carried out, and only half a percent of the documents contained information covered by confidentiality, for example because they concern Sweden's exchange of information with foreign authorities and evidence from defected K GB agents. However, there is no classified information relevant to the work on the fate of Wallenberg and no documents classified beyond a secret and top secret. A total of 1 70 000 pages are thus available to the public, which is also the entire Ministry for Foreign Affairs' archive on the matter. The government is in contact with Russia with a view to ensuring the greatest possible transparency on their part. On October 31, 2019 on behalf of Wallenberg's relatives, our Embassy in Moscow handed over a note to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs requesting a number of documents from various Russian archives. Researchers in the field believe that these could provide answers to several remaining questions. On my visit to Moscow on 4 February, I personally emphasized the importance of the Russian side facilitating the work of scientists and providing answers to the questions submitted.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-217	Mr President, I would like to The question of Raoul Wallenberg is very important. He was an amazing person, a hero, who saved the lives of up to 100,000 Jews. As the Foreign Minister said, it is 75 years since he was captured. The first time I met his sister Nina Lagergren was 30 years ago, and I have had close contact with her over the years. She died last spring, and I attended the funeral. I have promised her and her family to do what I can to keep pushing to find out the truth. It is this, Mr President, that is the basis of this interpellation. There are still questions about what happened. It has come to the conclusion that Raoul Wallenberg was questioned six days after the official date of death. This is what I want to talk about. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Sweden has consistently requested all available information and through all years worked for the greatest possible clarity. I think there are some questions about that statement. It is clear that the Soviet and Russian governments have lied about important aspects of Raoul Wallenberg's disappearance. Very relevant documentation is deliberately withheld from Raoul Wallenberg's family and for researchers – this has been the case for decades. The failure of Russian officials to share key information during the investigation that lasted for a decade, between 1991 and 2000, still casts a shadow over the investigation. The protests from the Swedish side against the Russian behaviour to withhold important information have also been lacking. The information provided by the Russian side has thus been far from complete. This raises serious questions about the official version of Raoul Wallenberg's death in the Soviet prison, which was said to have occurred as the result of a heart attack on 17 July 1947. In the documentation that has now been released, it appears that Russian state security authorities in fact have serious doubts as to the validity of this claim, which came in 1957 in the Smoltsov report. In 2009, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is informed that Raoul Wallenberg is most likely identical to prisoner No. 7, who was interviewed on 22 and 23 July 1947, i.e. six days after Raoul Wallenberg's official death date. The reaction from the Swedish side will be very small. We should remember that this is the most sensational thing that has happened since 1957, and there are almost no reactions. It is thus given information that the Russian side has been withholding crucial information for decades, but the reaction is almost none at all. Since, 2011 and 2012, Russian state security officials at the FSB confirm that Raoul Wallenberg is identical to prisoner No. 7. You get this information to the State Department, but it's classified. Even now nothing is happening. Now I have also learned that this information has not even reached Raoul Wallenberg's family. The question is why this has been withheld. Two years ago, when I asked your predecessor about prisoner number 7, she avoided answering. Why has this been avoided?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-225	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mikael Oscarsson for taking up the important actions of Raoul Wallenberg and continuing to keep the issue alive. Raoul Wallenberg is still, 75 years after the disappearance, an inspiration for people when it comes to human rights. The interpellant asks a number of questions about prisoner No 7 and the information available that prisoner No 7 was actually Raoul Wallenberg. In my reply, I have referred to the work carried out by the Swedish-Russian working group, where data on prisoner No 7 was discussed as a hypothesis. The possibility that prisoner number 7 was Raoul Wallenberg was also mentioned in a letter to a researcher from the Russian Federation Security Service FSB in 2009. So it was not a task reserved exclusively for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. On a later occasion, the then Deputy Archive Director of the FSB, Colonel Vinogradov, repeated these previously known tasks to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. They were also reported in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' situation assessment from the end of 2012, to which the interpeller refers, under the English term Official Review of the Raoul Wallenberg C ase. I repeat that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not keep secret any documents that can shed light on Wallenberg's disappearance and that the government is working to ensure that various archives in Russia will show the same openness as exists in Sweden. The request submitted by the Embassy of Sweden to the Russian side in October 2019 also asks for documents concerning Prisoner No. 7.
i-G8wgAsp2oKcCxXYWc29nWF	Mr President, I would like to The former Deputy Director of the FSB Registration and Archive Directorate, Vladimir Vinogradov, confirmed in 2011 to a Swedish diplomat in Moscow that Raoul Wallenberg could not only have been questioned after 17 July 1947 but that he was the prisoner No. 7. So he did not say that it could have been or that it probably was, but he said it was. His statement constitutes the clearest confirmation that the official Soviet version of Raoul Wallenberg's fate is a lie coming from the highest levels of the FSB. As Vinogradov's statements were formally classified, they were also kept outside the official audit carried out by the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2013. It is an undeniable fact that Swedish officials over the last 20 years have regarded the Raoul Wallenberg case as a historical issue. Much has been put on the shoulders of Raoul's family and researchers. Nevertheless, I would like to ask again: why did Swedish officials not press Russian officials for more information after this became known? If it turns out that the date of death is not correct, then it is clear that much more is not true. It's obvious you've been too passive. Raoul Wallenberg is an example: he was not only informed, he acted. In his spirit, from the time he was captured and until today there have been important questions to ask about why Sweden has not been more active. Every time Russian officials say they have no more to share, new information has appeared. It was also a little strange with Vinogradov's information from 2011. At first, it was not included in the 40,000 pages, but it came up with a question from a researcher. I don't know if the Foreign Minister has any information on why it wasn't directly released. The Minister says that there is no documentation of the Raoul Wallenberg case that is relevant to the task of clarifying Wallenberg's fate that remains classified and secret. But are there clarifications as to what this documentation refers to, and how many of the entries are still classified and secret? I would also like to ask whether there are any records kept secret at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, in all possible forms and collections, which in any way affect Raoul Wallenberg, that is to say, something concerning his person or the investigation of his fate and which bears the designation This is particularly important for Raoul Wallenberg's family, who feels that they have not received the confirmation that they should have received from the previous government or from the current government. This is why they return to both the Swedish and Russian Ministry for Foreign Affairs and continue to ask questions. Can the Minister clarify the situation on the Swedish side?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-235	Mr President, I would like to Three weeks ago, as I said, I had the honour of speaking to those gathered on the square in Stockholm called Raoul Wallenberg torg. It was on the day 75 years since he was found for the last time in freedom, in Budapest. I talked about, among other things, the civil courage and the power of action that led Raoul Wallenberg, together with his associates, to save many tens of thousands of people from the Holocaust. I also said that the government will not give up its efforts to bring out the truth about Wallenberg's fate. His business remains open, and the uncertainty about what happened to him after January 17, 1945, continues to plague his relatives. For the Swedish Ministry of Trikes, Raoul Wallenberg is our largest single and most long-standing case. The Swedish-Russian working group, which from September 1991 had been tasked with joint efforts to investigate the question of his fate, presented its accounts in 2001. Despite interesting data from Russian archives, complete clarity could not be obtained. I also raised the issue of access to archive material with Russia's Foreign Minister Lavrov earlier this week, and I also raised it at our joint press conference. The State Investigation A diplomatic failure from 2003 identified several Swedish shortcomings in the handling of Wallenberg's case, especially during the important years after the Second World War, and gave rise to legitimate self-examination and reflection. One guiding principle of the work is transparency, which is reflected in the Government's decision of 22 August 2019 on the publication of approximately 40,000 pages of documents received during the period 1970–2018 from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' case of Raoul Wallenberg. Since earlier, all documents from the period before 1970 had been published. As a result, the entire Ministry for Foreign Affairs' archives are now available to the public and the scientific community, close to 170 000 pages. The examination of confidentiality in this connection required a diligent effort, and a very small part of the material, only half a percent, was deemed to contain information which is still covered by confidentiality. None of the few information that remains confidential has any relevance for investigating Wallenberg's fate or any classification beyond The half per cent contained information that is covered by confidentiality because it concerns, for example, Sweden's exchange of information with foreign authorities and evidence from defected KGB agents. Mr President, I would like to The interpellant has asked what measures I and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have taken against Russia to bring to light the truth about Raoul Wallenberg's disappearance. As I mentioned, the government is seeking full transparency in this matter, and therefore the documents contained in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' archives have also been published. We also support Raoul Wallenberg's family in their efforts to persuade the responsible Russian authorities, together with researchers, to act in the same way and to provide access to additional documents. On 31 October 2019, our Embassy in Moscow submitted a note to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs requesting a number of documents from various Russian archives on behalf of its relatives. I personally stressed the importance of this issue and also sent letters in my talks with Russia's Foreign Minister Sergej Lavrov as late as Tuesday, 4 February, during our deliberations in Moscow.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-241	Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my sincere and sincere thanks for the fact that the Foreign Minister personally did so this past week and raised this information and request for more information to researchers and family members in connection with his meeting with Sergej Lavrov. The important thing now is that this should continue. What we have now learned is that it has been confirmed a long time ago that the date of death that is still official – that is, that Raoul Wallenberg would have died of a heart attack in 1947 – is not true. It has been confirmed that the former No. 7 questioned was him. There are clearly more facts to bring home. The Russian side hasn't told the truth. Therefore, it is important that we not only see this as a historical event but that we press for us to find out what happened to Raoul Wallenberg: When did he die, under what circumstances and so on? It is important for Raoul Wallenberg's family and for the Swedish people that we can get light on what happened. It is both about the failure of the Swedish side the years immediately after his disappearance and about what has happened until today. We must be self-critical, for example with regard to what I have just said about the fact that this information has already been given to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs a long time ago but has been classified. Let's see ourselves in the mirror. We must do more and press to get the Russian side to tell the whole full truth about Raoul Wallenberg.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-245	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mikael Oscarsson once again for raising the issue of the fate of Raoul Wallenberg. It is important that his life and works are heeded today and not forgotten. Work on this important matter continues, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in close contact with relatives and researchers with the shared hope that one day we will know exactly what happened to Raoul Wallenberg.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-246	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me whether I intend to do nothing about the situation that has arisen when the so-called High School Act indirectly transfers the crucial part of the assessment of who is allowed to stay in the realm to teachers. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has also asked me if I have a plan to ease the burden of Swedish teachers through education and support. First of all, let me emphasise that it is the Migration Agency and the courts that decide all matters relating to residence permits. This also applies to issues relating to the possibility of a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level under the so-called upper secondary rule. The Finnish Immigration Service also has a service obligation in matters relating to the agency's area of activity and continuously develops information and support, including in the form of questions and answers on its website. School leaders, principals and teachers must follow the school's regulations and policy documents. The so-called secondary rule does not mean that they should deviate from what normally applies within the school. The school's work on, for example, admission to education, registration of absence or grading should be done in the same way for this group as for other pupils in upper secondary school and in municipal adult education. I have full confidence that school staff are professional in their professional activities and every day they manage to make difficult but correct decisions. However, the government is aware of the challenges facing teachers and other staff in terms of education for this group, as well as for other newly arrived pupils in upper secondary school and in Komvux. The Government is therefore carrying out several efforts to strengthen and support education for newly arrived students. The role of the state in local development requires long-term and continuity, and there is a need for further national support and development efforts. The Government therefore decided in November 2019 to instruct the Swedish National Agency for Education to continue to implement efforts to strengthen the quality of education for children and pupils who are newly arrived or who have a mother tongue other than Swedish. Target groups for the different interventions are principals, principals, preschool teachers, recreational teachers, teachers on all subjects, study supervisors in native languages and other staff in the school system, including upper secondary school and Komvux. The actions will be adapted to the different conditions and needs of the target groups. Particular attention should be paid to newly arrived pupils and their progress in the education system, as well as to those with particularly difficult conditions. The purpose of the Government's mission to the National Agency for Education is to improve the conditions for school staff to provide high quality teaching so that, among other new arrivals, pupils in upper secondary school and in municipal adult education can achieve the goals of their education.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-253	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, but I feel that the Minister has not fully answered the question. I know very well that it is the Migration Agency that has the ultimate responsibility for all kinds of decisions in the area of migration and residence permits, but it is the decisions of the teachers that form the basis for what the Migration Agency should decide. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Minister states in his reply that the Migration Agency has a service function on its website, which provides support and help and answers questions, in answer to whether the government has a plan to support teachers in the difficult situation that the Upper Secondary Education Act has put them in, is a good approach, but it makes me think a little about how the government sees its responsibility in the matter. That is certainly not an answer to the question, as I see it. Of course, I also trust the professionalism of schools and that they comply with their regulations and governance documents. I have full confidence that both teachers and principals and other school staff are professional in their professional activities, but I have to say that the government is subjecting school staff to unreasonable trials through the High School Act and leaving municipalities and schools in the lurch when they do not get the support that they need and that I see they would need. Perhaps I should put it this way, Mr President: teachers have not been able to make clear what to document. There are unreasonable demands on teachers to document the presence and results, which may have fatal consequences for the student, and then the ethical requirements will go beyond that. If you see that a student feels really bad, so bad that the student can't even get to school, what do you do as a teacher then? It is a conflict of interest, and there will be a serious conflict of loyalty for the teachers. Students do not have sufficient prior knowledge, and the High School Act has therefore given unreasonable hope to these people. It is no wonder that the law is called a slow expulsion, and it is no wonder that mental illness is spreading among both students and teachers. This, of course, affects the working environment of teachers. What is the Minister doing specifically to support in this situation, where the government's failed legislation, known as the High School Act, has put them in this situation? The municipalities, for their part, Mr President, have not been able to identify the types of training that count as approved, but they have toiled and sweated to get costly training in place. As a thank you, the government, through the Migration Agency, is taking its hand, or should I say its roof, from these young adults, who can now become homeless because the Migration Agency has interpreted the law so that you no longer need to house the young people, something that has now become the municipality's responsibility. Young people would be homeless if the municipalities, together with NGOs, had not once again worked hard to get them under cover. Mr President, I would like to The Minister is a lawyer at the bottom and is certainly, as I am, a little amazed at the lack of impact assessment before the law was launched. I would like to ask: is it not time for a review and analysis of the law? What direct measures does the Minister intend to take for the teachers' work situation?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-261	Mr President, I would like to Being a teacher is hard. Often the decisions that teachers make have consequences for the students. I can give you some examples. For example, a student who has a large and repeated absence may be considered. The teacher who does what teachers are supposed to do and reports this as you should know at the same time that the student is at risk of losing his or her study grant. I do not want in any way to equate the loss of study grants with the consequences that the so-called High School Act may have for a young person, but I would like to point out that the fact that the teacher has a responsibility to maintain policy documents and rules in his field is not unique to the question put by the honourable Member. Being a teacher is difficult, and being a teacher for newly arrived students is especially difficult. It's difficult for a number of reasons. Those students who come here to Sweden, who are entitled to education and teaching and who have not attended the Swedish school as long as their classmates, often need extra support. It is often the case that these students have more difficulty than other students in achieving the goals and requirements that apply, for quite natural reasons. The teachers therefore have a difficult task, and I have full understanding and great respect for this task. It is even more difficult when it comes to the pupils covered by the so-called High School Act. Then I think that Sweden's teachers should remember that it is not they who make decisions. Those who decide whether or not to stay in Sweden are our courts and the Migration Agency. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm is fully aware that many of the detailed questions that have been asked here about the application of the so-called Upper Secondary Education Act, the Migration Agency's information on the work's website, the Migration Agency's various messages regarding housing and other matters are questions that I cannot answer. These are questions that I may refer to the responsible Minister of State. Does this mean that I do not see the difficult situation of many officials in our municipalities? Yes, I really do. I was in Vänersborg last week and met teachers and school leaders who had done a heroic job to find housing for many students who were no longer allowed to stay at the Migration Board's accommodations together with civil society in Vänersborg. But I also took part in a class where I saw how committed and knowledgeable professional teachers and Swedish teachers together ensured that students on the basis of this regulation had the opportunity to learn difficult and important tasks, tasks that will eventually lead to an opportunity to work as a CNC operator – a profession that there is a great lack of in Sweden. My answer to all the questions asked by Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm is that teachers have a difficult job. These are special conditions for these particular students. But it's basically always a hard job to be a teacher. And teachers who carry out their duties often know that the decisions they make also matter to the students' future ways. But the teachers should also know that they are going to do their job. It is not their responsibility to decide on expulsion.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-268	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that answer. I have no doubt at all about the Minister's goodwill with regard to the staff of the school and the students. I live in the immediate vicinity of Vänersborg and know very well what work these teachers, municipalities and NGOs have done to get some sort of order at very short notice in what the High School Act has done. As the Minister points out, Swedish education for newcomers is difficult. But some are similar to a school political accident, that is, letting young people down time and again by making far too high demands on them and having far too high goals. You blow up false hopes, and it doesn't feel fair. In recent days, we have been able to read about mental ill health, prostitution and homelessness in the backwaters of the High School Act. When the students are no longer able to keep up hope, they either wait for expulsion or to join the growing shadow society. When the High School Act was passed, it was met with massive criticism, not only from us Moderates but from UNICEF, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, the police and the Bar Association. But the most obvious of all was the Law Council. Their words, that the limit has been reached for what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted, should have caused the warning bells to ring. An impact assessment should also have been carried out there and then. For me, the fact that the law was still enforced in this House is a mystery. Seven thousand temporary residence permits have now been granted. Rather than for asylum reasons, it is the presence of upper secondary schools or the presence of compux that determines whether the persons may stay. But this applies only to some people. Those who will have to decide whether these 7 000 will be allowed to stay are the teachers and other school staff. Although it is the Finnish Immigration Service and the courts that make the final decision, the teachers' assessments form the basis for this. Madam President, I would like The High School Act is a clear failure, and the government does not admit its mistake. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the enormous difficulties that small municipalities have in keeping teachers and recruiting new teachers. I know that the Minister is aware of this, but it should be noted in this debate as well. The working environment created by the High School Act does not make it any easier. I would like to ask the Minister again what concrete measures the government intends to take to remedy the situation. Although the Government received a positive response in Vänersborg – teachers, municipal staff and all those in charge of these young people there are doing great – it is a difficult situation. Is there a plan to ease the burden for our Swedish teachers?
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-276	Madam President, I would like Once again, Ann-Sofie Alm's questions are very much concerned with the application of the so-called High School Act. It is, as you know, a law that does not fall within my remit. I therefore recommend that the honourable Member put these questions to the minister responsible. On the other hand, I will gladly report on what is being done within the school. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm spoke of a school political accident. These words contrast incredibly much with what I meet when, for example, I ask the OECD experts the following: Which country should you go to if you want to find a country that is really good at teaching newly arrived students and that is good at integrating newly arrived students into school? The OECD official then says: Sweden is the best, and there is no country that is really close to Sweden when it comes to ensuring that the school receives new arrivals in a really good way. At this point in time, talking about a school political failure seems a little out of date. The government has made great efforts to ensure that not only newly arrived but also the rather large groups who find it difficult to complete an entire upper secondary school education in one big step receive as good support as possible. We have introduced various forms of right to mentor in upper secondary school. We have dramatically increased the number of hours of teaching in the introductory programmes of upper secondary school. We have ensured that there is a clear and clear responsibility for reporting, follow-up and action in the event of repeated absences. But above all, we have spent a great deal of resources on support material for teachers. Great resources have gone to the schools and municipalities where there are many newly arrived students in the so-called new arrival assignment, which also includes support for principals and teachers. But perhaps the most important thing is that we have introduced a whole new opportunity in Swedish municipal adult education and in the introduction programmes that we call professional packages. The social partners have together sat down and developed vocational packages that are coherent training. It is not complete upper secondary education but a good step on the way to get there for the many students who do not pass a high school degree in one big step. For many of the newly arrived students that we have in Sweden, the professional package is a great opportunity to go to upper secondary school and bring the knowledge that they need to be able to go to the labour market and take a job and get ready for further studies and through komvux be able to get a complete upper secondary school degree and perhaps eventually move on to a university of applied sciences or college about their lives there. These professional packages are thus developed together with the social partners. These are important opportunities. I mention them because this is the answer to the question asked by Ann-Sofie Alm, which falls within my remit, namely what is being done at school to support these students. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm says that it is up to the teachers to decide and that the decision taken by the courts is the final decision. I would like to strongly remind you that teachers should follow policy documents. They shall make decisions on grades and report attendance. But the teachers should not make the decisions that lie at the Migration Board and the courts. In fact, these decisions fall within the remit of these authorities.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-284	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister, because, as I said earlier, I know that people are really trying. It is a very committed minister we see, and I think that is a good thing. I do not want to say, however, that I am out of date. I have sat with teachers who cried when they talked to me, and they have done so because their work situation has become completely overwhelming with the High School Act and that the teachers' decisions form the basis for the Migration Board's decision. That's what I said; I didn't say they did it. At least that's not what I meant. I would like to stress that we Moderates intend to continue demanding the government's response to how it intends to deal with the dire consequences of the High School Act. I will also take the minister's advice to hold the rest of the ministry to account for it. For we cannot content ourselves with the answer that the law is firm, because it is an inhuman suffering – indeed – that the government has inflicted on these people with its migration policy. Over and over again, false hopes are raised in migrants, in this case young people, and repeatedly they get slapped in the face in the form of withdrawn housing and changed rules. Hope is being pulled away all the time. It is not hard and cold to make demands; on the contrary, it is thoughtful to have clear regulations. But Sweden's municipalities and teachers cry out for help, Madam President, and the government refuses to listen. I hope that the Minister, with his good will, will take up the teachers' work situation and really improve it. We need our teachers, and we need a strong and healthy teaching staff.
i-e7c97bcda6f5fb8b-288	Madam President, I would like It's hard being a teacher. I have very great respect for the teachers who teach newly arrived students, and I have the deepest respect even for those teachers who think that having students in school affected by the so-called High School Act creates a more difficult working situation. I really understand that. Sometimes it is as if we in Sweden almost forget that it is difficult to be a teacher, but especially difficult to be a teacher for newly arrived students. Those students who come to Swedish school abroad from an advanced age – perhaps in 14, 15 or 16 years of age – need longer to learn all the things that the Swedish school has taught the other children for maybe nine years. They also need time to learn Swedish, and that is precisely why extra support is needed. It is a big and difficult task to ensure that the Swedish school is sufficient for the many newly arrived students who have come here in recent years, but the government takes this task very seriously. The task deserves resources, and that is why we have spent so much money on various forms of support for teaching new arrivals. That is why we have devoted so much resources to creating, for example, professional packages that give many students, not just new arrivals, the opportunity to leave school with the skills needed in the labour market – and the opportunity to come back to get a full degree when the forces are in place. I will continue to work very hard to give Sweden's teachers the best possible conditions to teach new arrivals and all other students in Swedish school. Thank you for an urgent interpellation.
