i-4b7e480337da633c-0	Madam President, I would like barely two weeks ago, on 20 February, EU leaders met at an extraordinary meeting of the European Council to negotiate the EU's long-term budget. The aim of the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, was that we could agree, but there was no agreement. I will briefly outline what happened at the meeting, the new proposals presented by the Commission and what could now be the next step. The meeting began with Mr Michel holding bilateral meetings with some Member States. During our meeting, I clearly set out the Swedish priorities: that the total volume should be kept down to 1 per cent and that there is a need for substantial and long-term discounts so that the Swedish fee can be kept down. After the bilateral meetings, we met for the formal meeting, where well-known negotiating positions were presented during a table round. It was also confirmed that the proposal presented by Michel to the meeting did not have the necessary support from the Member States. Many countries continued to argue for high levels of cohesion and agricultural policy. Some also wanted there to be more flexibility in how the money can be spent. From the more sparse countries we stood up for a lower volume, for more modernisation and for substantial and long-term discounts. Then the meeting was interrupted for further bilateral meetings that went on during the night toward Friday. In addition to the meetings of President Michel, other meetings were held between Member States in slightly different configurations. For Sweden, it was important to stick together in the group of sparse countries that, in addition to Sweden, consists of Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria. During the whole time we worked very closely together. We also agreed that during the negotiation we would not meet either the Commission or Charles Michel on our own, but all the negotiations were held jointly. We agreed that Prime Mark Rutte of the Netherlands would speak for the countries during the plenary session, as he did. This strong cohesion between our four countries made a strong impression. It was unequivocally clear to everyone, if it had not done so in the past, that we actually do not accept a substantial increase in the budget and that there will be no agreement either if we are not allowed to keep our rebates. The second day of the summit also began with smaller meetings in different configurations. The start time, which had first been set at 2.30 p.m. 10, pushed out several times. When we finally sat down, it was 6:45 p.m., and already after half an hour this meeting concluded that we could not agree. The European Council was therefore closed. However, today's various discussions resulted in a paper from the Commission containing a series of proposals in the hearing on key issues. Parliament has been given access to this paper. In conclusion, it contained some steps in the right direction, but they were certainly not sufficient. In particular, the level of the budget was still too high and the rebates were insufficient. As this paper was also rejected by the Member States, it is no longer part of the negotiation, but it may nevertheless give an indication as to which direction President Michel and the Commission believe may lead to an agreement. No information on when the next attempt to get there will be made is yet available. Although the Member States could not agree at the meeting on the next long-term budget, it was confirmed that we and our like-minded people in Denmark, Austria and the Netherlands are united. This unity persists, and it is and will be a force for the further negotiation. For Sweden, it has also been a strength that the government and parliament are so clearly jointly behind the Swedish negotiating position. The contacts with the EU Board that took place during the meeting apparently worked well. That too is something that we are happy to take with us when negotiations continue. As I said, when this happens, I do not know, but what we know is that many will want to finish as soon as possible. At the same time, many other important issues will take a lot of time during spring meetings. The spread of the Corona virus is something we work together to stop. That is an issue that will be high on the agenda this spring. The same applies, of course, to the escalating situation in Syria and Turkey and its consequences. With this, Madam President, I shall conclude my report.
i-4b7e480337da633c-14	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It was a long meeting even for those of us who sat at home, here or in some different places and waited. It also felt like a rather abrupt end. On the other hand, it was perhaps an expected decision according to what we had speculated about earlier. It is claimed from many quarters that Sweden has too narrow a focus on the size of the EU budget and the Swedish membership fee. We've been called cheap. However, like all the other Member States, we must safeguard our country's interests in the budgetary negotiations. Sweden is one of the largest net contributors to the EU, and it is therefore important and of great interest to Sweden to keep the EU budget as tight and efficient as possible. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the government for keeping up the resistance and working well with our allies. The volume is of course an important part, but what the budget should actually be used for is at least as important and crucial. In view of what we are now seeing around us, this is not least important with the worrying developments of escalating migratory pressure from Turkey on the EU's external border in Greece, which the Prime Minister also raised just now. We really need to ensure that we manage our border guard with the help of the European Union. Although it is one of the EU's most important tasks to jointly strengthen control at our external borders, to reduce immigration and to strengthen our security, so far regional aid and agricultural subsidies have been given a greater share. We have had somewhat different negotiating bids on this, but the latest bids that came involved a halving of the border guard and Frontex compared with what the Commission said was necessary to maintain control. I therefore wonder what the government sees as adequate funding to ensure that these elements do not lose resources in the EU.
i-4b7e480337da633c-20	Madam President, I would like First of all, I share the view that Sweden is not cheap. We are one of the biggest net contributors, and we will be so. We are a relatively rich country, and that is what we are saying to our comrades down there. But there is also a limit for net contributors to what we can tolerate in increased fees, and that is what this is all about. You can boil it down to the fact that it is really about net donors and net recipients. That is where the balance stands, and it is not so strange but quite natural. I would like to emphasise, as I said in my introduction, that cooperation between the four of us has been very important and will also be very important. It gives you strength to meet at the same time. Our environment understands that we are serious. This is not something we have just said, but we will pursue this. We know that it is possible to continue to reduce the budget without harming the EU's activities. We believe that there is room in, among other things, the margins available on the respective headings. There are also other items where we believe that it is possible to cut back without damaging the business. It is one of the things that we will continue to look at. The second is modernisation, and that is what Mrs Roswall is talking about security. We believe it is important to transfer more to it. In relation to what it looks like today, there is an increase, and that must be the case. Instead of increasing agricultural aid and other things, we would like to put more emphasis on that. There is a slight discrepancy between the four of us, where Austria has a greater interest in the common agricultural policy than the other three of us. However, the main focus for us is the same, and as far as the budget is concerned, it is to ensure that the rebates remain. We also want to modernise the budget, not least focusing on how we can increase security in Europe.
i-4b7e480337da633c-26	Madam President, I would like That is absolutely the case, in relation to the budget as it is today. On the other hand, the European Commission, which certainly talks about other volumes, says that it is necessary to increase the budget in order to maintain reasonable control. I think, and we have agreed on this in Sweden, that it is important to put resources in the right place to solve the social problems that exist. We certainly have a clear example here. That's one part. The second thing I would like to touch on, now that I have time, is the rule of law mechanism. There has been some back and forth in the negotiations. Either it's a step forward or two back; it's a little unclear. I wonder if anything can be said about how the country is in that part. What is the latest commandment to ensure that this mechanism is in place?
i-4b7e480337da633c-28	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say once again that, in terms of security and the defence of borders, we are talking about substantial increases, several hundred %. This is in fact a substantial increase. We would like to see more, and that is what we are presenting. We would like to see further modernisation equal to less in agricultural policy, for example. But it is important that citizens hear that this is a really substantial de facto increase we are talking about. Then there is also a discussion about how quickly you can get all border police, for example. Can the number of border police officers be increased by 10,000? Many say that there are not so many available, and then you cannot absorb any increase in this area. As far as the principles of the rule of law are concerned, this is about the same type of discussion. There are some who absolutely want this and some who are against, simply, and who then also try in different ways to make it more foggy, so to speak, how to follow them.
i-4b7e480337da633c-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It was gratifying to see that the frugal four holds the fort and does not recede. It is very important, when we have these 17 waste countries that want to spend considerably more money, that we have a secure alliance of countries that want to keep the budget down. Basically, we agree in the Swedish Parliament. It is gratifying that all parties finally came along. Although we in the SD are not particularly fond of new own resources, we agree on the basic orientation: the budget should be kept down, the rebates should be maintained and the budget should not exceed 1%. I sincerely hope that the Prime Minister will be equally clear at the forthcoming important meetings on this matter. Madam President, I would like I was going to raise another issue, namely the situation of Greece-Turkey. It is not, on the one hand, a question of the EU budget, but, on the other hand, it is, in fact, because Turkey receives several billions annually from the European Union. Then the question is: Is this not a golden opportunity to simply put an end to it? Should we not say that this is not the case, that we cannot have Mr Erdo on the border guard of Europe, that we must take care of our borders ourselves, that Greece must be given the support it needs to protect the border of the European Union, because it is also the border of Sweden and that we cannot allow Mr Erdo to hold the European Union hostage?
i-4b7e480337da633c-34	Madam President, I would like I note that we are in broad agreement on keeping the budget down and hence the levy and on ensuring that the rebates remain. I can assure you that view will not change. That is why the continued cooperation between the four of us, with the support of Germany as well, is extremely important. As far as Turkey is concerned, that was not in itself what was discussed at this meeting. However, I can say that we are now seeing a tragedy due to a government in Syria that gives complete seventeen in its own country. They have millions of people outside the country and millions of people fleeing the country. I think it's half a million people dead. Now there is one province left – where Sweden and other countries help – where there are no means to put another million people on the run under disgusting conditions. Seeing these children running away hurts all of us. Of course that is our limit, and it is also part of the discussion. We need to keep the outer border safe. That is the ambition of all the Member States, and we must help each other there. However, this does not mean that we should not cooperate with the outside world. I mean, we have to. Otherwise, we will have even more people who will seek refuge in Europe, both refugees and people who want to move for economic reasons. That cooperation is important. What is being done in Turkey is also being done precisely for the refugees. I would like to point that out. It is not to strengthen the state apparatus in Turkey; it is for children's schooling, for housing, for food, for medicines and for the situation of refugees that this money is allocated. I think we should bear that in mind. It's important that we help those people.
i-4b7e480337da633c-38	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'm still a little disturbed by the rhetoric. It's kind of like Turkey saving the refugees. In fact, Turkey bears a great responsibility for the flow of refugees. It is Turkey that provides weapons to jihadists, with logistical support and with its own troops. The war in Syria might have been over if it hadn't been just for Erdo ans big power dreams where you want to see a Great Turkey and have a piece of the cake in Syria. I would like Sweden and the rest of the European Union to step down, not to accept that Mr Erdo is holding the European Union hostage and also to say that Turkey will not have a single crown or euro from the EU budget in the future.
i-4b7e480337da633c-40	Madam President, I would like That would be fatal. Yes, Turkey has its share in this. Syria, Russia, Iran and other countries also share in the fact that it looks as sad as it does. Unfortunately, however, we also have lots of people who are suffering for real. If we can do something for these people, it is not in contrast to protecting the external border. It's a humanitarian effort. If the alternative is for all these people who already exist in Turkey to flee again, we can see a humanitarian disaster ahead of us. I don't think so many people would like to see it. What we are seeing now is enough. It is a matter of putting an end to the misery, not increasing it.
i-4b7e480337da633c-41	Madam President, I would like There have been many meetings and many long discussions even before this summit about what is going to land in the MFF. We have had many sittings in the European Council before this extraordinary summit, where the idea was nevertheless to get one step closer. During all these meetings, we in the Center Party have talked about the need to reduce the fee, linked to the fact that we have a large country of subsidy leaving the Union. In that line, we have no difference. We have been concerned that it cannot be Sweden's farmers or Sweden's countryside that should pay the entire bill. We must ensure that Sweden's farmers are competitive. When you talk about agriculture you get it easy to be an interest in a few. As long as you talk nutrition, it is also a purely nutritional issue. But if you talk about healthy and safe food, environmental benefits or food security in an uncertain and troubled world, the interest is much greater. I would say that it is 100% in terms of citizens and citizens who actually want food. In 1995, when we became members, we chose to transfer agricultural policy from the national arena to the common market. It may seem to be very much money, but it is because that is where we have put the opportunity to run a common agricultural policy. Prior to the meeting, the focus was on the framework, the ceiling, fees and possible discounts. It is difficult to sit in a good negotiating position if you are not clear in that part. However, as far as CAP is concerned, I would still like to hear how the Prime Minister and Sweden in these meetings are pushing the line as to what the content of CAP should be. It is the continuation of modern and environmentally-smart agriculture that we must be involved in changing – not only in Sweden but also in the rest of Europe.
i-4b7e480337da633c-46	Madam President, I would like We're in complete agreement. One of our main arguments is that when a large net contributor leaves the Community, it must appear on the budget. I also say to the others that I believe that all of us leaders in the European Council have at some time been in some organisation, government or party that has received a loss of income. Then you start by thinking about how you can reduce expenditure and not just that you can increase the fees. It's pretty natural. As far as agriculture is concerned, I also share the view that it is the interest of many and not just a few. This has to do with our food security. It has to do with open landscapes and biodiversity. There are many perspectives that fit into it. It's a country's interest. There's no doubt about it. As far as CAP is concerned, we believe that it can be modernised and that more money can be transferred from it. We think, for example, that when it comes to the movement between Pillar 1 and Pillar 2, we would rather see the so-called Pillar 2 and not the area payment that many now want to transfer more money to. It also wants to be able to be flexible between the pillars within a country and to increase that flexibility. We believe that this will lead to additional cost increases. I'm sure it'll drive costs. We also think it is right that 40% of CAP goes to climate action aimed at climate change. 25% of the budget as a whole goes to the climate. So we are pushing for modernisation. Where others want to see higher area payments, for example, we believe that it should rather go towards Pillar 2. In this sense, we also agree with Austria.
i-4b7e480337da633c-50	Madam President, I would like I think that line too is extremely important to nuance and clarify. It'll be easy for it to be the fair trade: CAP will fund everything else we're going to do. It creates a strange picture of a large part of what we actually spend the money in our budget on. Then there must also be representatives who stand up for and describe exactly the benefit that this brings. If you look at what Sweden has goals linked to the food strategy and other things, it is extremely counterproductive to stand and talk down the nutrition that should be involved and contribute to safe and safe food here in Sweden. How much of the time and power of the meetings that the Prime Minister has had has been devoted to describing a modernised CAP? And in what way will it strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish farmers?
i-4b7e480337da633c-53	Madam President, I would like It's not like CAP's gonna finance everything. I said in my introduction that we see opportunities to reduce the margins of all the headlines. There are margins also for taking a little height for something, and there we see that there are opportunities – as well as the so-called Development Fund and the so-called special instruments. There are therefore several possibilities to cut back on the budget which do not affect CAP alone. I'd like to say that first. We have not been involved in detailed discussions, but have been about the budget as a whole, the rebates, the flow of resources and the so-called own resources. That is what has been up for discussion. We have made it clear that we do not yet have the Parliament's mandate but are prepared to open up to such a discussion to see where it can lead to keep the fee down.
i-4b7e480337da633c-55	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I think it is a good thing that the Commission still meets us, even if it is not enough. It's good that we stick together. But it is negative that so many countries continue to want to keep the budget up and that so many want to stick to outdated and dysfunctional agricultural support. I hope that there is agreement on climate action and that the climate will permeate the budget as a whole. I thought the Prime Minister said you didn't go into those details, but maybe there's something you can say about what the situation is or how you talked about it. It is also positive that we in the Swedish Parliament fully agree on how Sweden's fee should be. But we have completely different opinions about the budget itself, that is, how the money in the budget is to be distributed. For example, we have different views on what the budget should look like for refugees and Frontex. I think that what is happening in Turkey now shows that the European Union has had a wrong strategy when it has become dependent on Turkey. We have often criticised it from this speaker's seat and from the European Council. For our part, we think that the budget for refugee policy should be about reception in Europe rather than about investment in armies and a tough border control. There we have very different views. I would like some comments from the Prime Minister on the content of the budget. As the Prime Minister himself has said several times, it is not the fee that governs the budget but the budget that governs the fee.
i-4b7e480337da633c-60	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we agree on the main ambition. There are many Member States on the other side – yes, that is the case, and they are pushing on very hard. We have what is called F4, or taxpayers' friends, as we call it. They have a group that wants to increase much more in cohesion and agricultural policy. There are seventeen countries. Let's see what forces this is all about. As far as the climate is concerned, the Commission's final proposal, which is no longer part of the negotiation because it was not accepted, with the proposal on the climate issue, increased the 25% element that is mainstream for climate action – that 25% of the budget as a whole should go to the climate – to 30% at the end of the period. It was a gesture to us who want more of that product. We'll have to get back to that. Now at least 25% applies. As regards the EU's dependence on Turkey, I would like to say that refugees are dependent on humanitarian aid. That's the truth. The alternative to what it is now is that these people have nowhere to go. Where are they going? We cannot go back to a situation like the one we had in 2015. It was an unsustainable situation both for the refugees and for the countries. Here they are given decent conditions. It's tough as it is-- I understand it-- but not having a place to go, not having a roof over your head, not having schooling for the kids and not having food or medicine is worse. I would say that this is a situation which, of course, originates from the Syria conflict. Turkey is an accessory, yes, but we must now focus first and foremost on the people who depend on humanitarian aid and not on the game between Turkey and the European Union.
i-4b7e480337da633c-63	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with the Prime Minister when he says that it is the refugees who depend on Turkey. If we were to provide humanitarian aid, we would not have the situation on the Greek-Turkish border that we have today, but Europe would receive refugees and provide humanitarian aid in Europe. Ceiling over the head, medicine, school for the children and everything the Prime Minister mentions should not be Turkey's cause, especially not, as the Prime Minister himself mentioned, because Turkey is also helping to create more refugees through its involvement in the Syria conflict. So we have the same opinion on Sweden's contribution – that it should not increase – but different views on how the budget should be distributed in relation to refugees and border guards.
i-4b7e480337da633c-65	Madam President, I would like I think that was a correct summary of the essence of this. As far as the levy and the budget are concerned, we probably share the same view, but I believe that it would be a completely unsustainable situation if the millions of refugees in Turkey were to enter Europe. Then we would have the same situation as in 2015, and it would not be better for them – there would be chaos for a long, long time. That is why I say that this does not depend on Turkey, but that the refugees are dependent on humanitarian aid, and it is being given to them there now. The European Union is paying, and I am glad that we are. For these people would have had an even greater misery if it had not happened.
i-4b7e480337da633c-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. We have had the debate on the long-term budget up for quite a long time, and I believe that we on the part of the Christian Democrats are broadly in agreement with the government in terms of priorities and keeping the fee down. This also applies to the priorities set out in the Sibiu declaration on what the EU is actually going to do for the citizens of Europe with the long-term budget that is now to be adopted. I think it is important that the Prime Minister did not agree to the long-term budget presented by the President of the European Council. This was an unacceptable increase in the Swedish levy. We know that Brexit means that Britain's contribution to the budget, about EUR 60 to 75 billion, will disappear. It must have consequences, and we must now deal with a smaller budget and modernisation of the budget. We live in an uncertain world where we need to strengthen border protection, strengthen security in cyber war and other matters. We have promised the citizens to invest in security and security, and that is why we must strengthen it. At the same time, of course, we will continue to invest in research, development and the companies that create our welfare. The summit discussed the so-called plastic component, i.e. the recycling of plastic packaging, which according to the Prime Minister would benefit Sweden. What is the Prime Minister's view on the issue now after the summit – were there any changes? According to the Prime Minister, is this still attractive to Sweden? After all, he has spoken out in favour of it.
i-4b7e480337da633c-70	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think that Mrs Pethrus' reasoning is exactly right. That is exactly what we want to come back to: what did we say in Sibiu, and what did we agree on? Well, we agreed on jobs, a modern industrial policy, research and development, innovation, security, climate and the values Europe should stand for – not least gender equality. That was the essence, and that is why we want to modernise the budget from that very point of view. So I think it is absolutely right to go back to that, because that is where we have to stay. However, there are still strong forces that want to see cohesion policy in particular. It is understandable somewhere; we have to understand these countries, because of course that means a lot to their opportunities. But we believe that as countries and the economy develop – some of these countries have a much faster economic development than Sweden has – there must also be fewer and fewer regions dependent on aid. In this way, it should therefore be quite natural, and that discussion will continue. As far as the so-called plastic component is concerned, two new own resources were actually under discussion. One was the ETS, i.e. the emissions trading system, and there, not least, Germany indicated very clearly that it is out of the question. So I'd say it's off the agenda. The second was the plastic, that is, how you manage to recycle and take care of plastic. I would first like to say that I have been very clear to the Commission and the President of the European Council that we do not have the parliamentary mandate there. However, we are open to looking at the possibility, because in fact, two things do. First of all, it reduces Sweden's fee – I'll leave the figures round, but it can actually be about a billion, which is a lot. Secondly, it benefits the climate. That is why I think we should be prepared to look at it.
i-4b7e480337da633c-73	Madam President, I would like Initially, we have been reluctant to raise new own resources because we do not know where it will go if the EU starts to add more and more of these types of own resources. Nevertheless, we are prepared to look at a proposal, just as the Prime Minister obviously is. I'm thinking a little bit about the strategy ahead. Is there a risk that the modernisation and renewal of the budget will lose momentum? In fact, the Finnish Presidency reduced it in order to reduce the fee itself, so how does the Prime Minister intend to balance a reduction in the budget with a substantial increase in security and migration issues? We have seen a great need to invest in it, not least in the last few days.
i-4b7e480337da633c-75	Madam President, I would like It is clear that that risk exists, and there are lots of parameters that are up for discussion in order for this to go together in the end. I have always said that I think it is wise for us to see that there are lots of parameters that should be up for discussion. We are, of course, talking about the total volume, and that is the size of the rebate and the new basis for calculation. For example, the plastic fee is one. We are talking about how much flexibility should be given to VAT and customs duties, such as the margins on the various headings. Then there is the bni development and a lot of different things that affect. It is therefore absolutely the case that those countries that want, for example, higher levels of cohesion will also be less driven by modernisation. In other words, it will be rubbed, as it were, and there is also a balance line before us.
i-4b7e480337da633c-77	Madam President, I would like Europe's challenges are significant these days, not least with regard to the need for long-term funding, and that is why we are now negotiating this budget. I thank the Prime Minister for reporting back; we will see where this lands. It should be remembered that the story in this Parliament, the Swedish Parliament, has been that some parties have wanted to lock up the government on their way down to these negotiations. We Liberals think it is important to have a great deal of flexibility, nor has it been a secret that we from the liberal side think it is important to invest massively in Europe. Europe is somewhere with and is the answer to most of the challenges we have. Whether we are talking about security, migration or internal security, for example, developments within Europol or Eurojust are crucial for us to be able to fight serious crime together. If we are to be able to do so forcefully, we should do it more at European level, and it may initially cost us a lot to do so. Europe is also facing huge climate investments, and investment in research and, for that matter, innovation is needed. Europe is supposed to be the place on earth where most ideas are created, where prosperity and prosperity are created and where entrepreneurship flourishes. However, it requires an enormous focus. I understand how difficult it is to bring the countries that are stuck in traditional, old-fashioned agricultural aid and cohesion policy, because it is clear that they have their challenges. But what concrete paths are we talking about together with Denmark, Holland, Austria – and perhaps some who sometimes are a little closer to us on these issues, like Germany – to break through this? We need to have every euro for these future issues, because it is when Europe is united that we are strong.
i-4b7e480337da633c-80	Madam President, I would like We agree that the fee cannot increase in any way. Everyone sees that the fee will increase only depending on the BNI development, so it's natural. We have said that we have Parliament's support there, and it is no wonder – we should be net contributors, and we should take our responsibility for Europe – but there is a limit to how much a fee can increase. That is what we are talking about: there is a limit. We have very big commitments to make sure that welfare works as it should in Sweden, so we have a lot to do here. That's why there's a limit. I also share the basic idea of the importance of the European Union. That is why I am pleased that we had an EU debate here in Parliament not so long ago. I believe that this was the first time such a debate was held in which the Prime Minister had to express a European policy. We see just today how extremely important cooperation with the EU is, as is the cooperation we have with the European Disease Control Agency. We also see it in many other contexts. In the debate on the EU budget, we must never forget what Europe means to us. It is about jobs, research opportunities, education and other things. But as I said, there is a limit. What paths have we discussed? As I said earlier, we see that there are probably margins under each heading. We believe that there are a number of billions to be removed there. The Development Fund is one such instrument, as is the special instrument outside the various headings and the budget for them. We believe that there are things to cut back on there, without making violence on the business for this. In addition, we are still in favour of modernisation of both cohesion policy and agricultural policy. The greater the flexibility of these instruments within countries, the more it drives costs and expenditure. If you are more restrictive, you can keep spending down.
i-4b7e480337da633c-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is a question of not being foolproof if you want what we from the Liberals tend to point out, because it is very important that the money that is collected is used correctly, however this happens. We know that there is fraud not only in Sweden and in individual Member States, but also at the level of EU funds. That is why, for example, the European Public Prosecutor's cooperation is extremely important to ensure that the crown and the euro for the euro are used properly. It should be possible to have this as a small brackish against those who are rather very focused on the old and that it should only be aid payments, whether in terms of cohesion or agriculture, as has been the case in the past. I find it interesting to look at own resources. For example, we in the Liberals think that, in the long term, common CO2 taxation can be reasonable. But the plastic levy – the plastic tax – or, for that matter, certain duties must also be able to be increased.
i-4b7e480337da633c-88	Madam President, I would like I share the view of not being fool-free, and so I am happy to come back to the question that Mrs Pethrus put about what we have actually agreed. These are the core areas on which we want to work, and that is what modern Europe is. This applies, among other things, to the climate change change and adaptation that needs to be done. Within the current system there are frauds, which, of course, prosecutors have to deal with. But I believe that there is also full legal expenditure within the rules of the game that does not bring much modernisation. I am thinking above all of Pillar 1 and agricultural policy, to put it plainly. As far as plastic and other charges are concerned, it is a discussion that can continue. I think it's the closest one at the moment. Later, perhaps next time, there may be a discussion about other things as well, what do I know.
i-4b7e480337da633c-91	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I share the previous speaker's view that Europe is part of the solution that we need to see in the future too many issues. This applies not least to the disease control authority located in Solna, Sweden. It plays an absolutely crucial role in the joint work that we are currently doing in the European Union to prevent the spread of the virus that could cause great harm to both our people and the people of Europe as a whole. Last week I had the opportunity to go with my children, who were on holiday, to Småland. Along the roads we could see how lake after lake had flooded. When I was going home, they said on the radio that the E4 was off south of Ljungby. Along the roads where we went, we could also see that barricades had been built against the water and that there were houses that were completely flooded. That was a reminder that we in Sweden have a very changed climate. We have seen droughts and extreme heat waves throughout the European continent. At DN.se you can follow climate change in real time. Today it was read there that the average temperature in the world has increased by 1.2 degrees. In Sweden the increase is greater. 41% of Arctic ice has melted. The sea level has increased by 25 centimetres. We have less than eight years to reach net zero emissions if we are to meet the 1.5 degree target, which is required to prevent the worst consequences of climate change. From this perspective, it cannot be stressed enough how important it is for the EU's long-term budget to have a clear focus on the climate. At least 25% is a bit out of proportion. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister has given a small statement that there are countries that want to move money within agricultural support and so on from the climate. Is there a risk that the target of at least 25% will fall?
i-4b7e480337da633c-96	Madam President, I would like You can never exclude anything, but I have not noticed any pressure on us to go below the 25%. The last proposal put forward by the Commission, which is therefore no longer on the table, meant that we could raise to 30 during the term of office. So we are going to increase this gradually. I think the Commission is very clear about this, and there is strong support for the budget to be able to deal with both climate change and adaptation. We're already there. We need to protect parts of the countries. Many have said that this is the warmest winter. In some places it has not actually been a winter, but from autumn it was ours. It is a sign of warning that we must take seriously. The hesitation that exists is from many countries that feel that they are so far behind and have so much to do. That is why I think it is right that there should be an opportunity in the budget to support countries that simply have a longer way to go so that they can get rid of coal dependence, for example. You can see that there are those who wonder if they can do it and what happens if they can't do it. But most people want to do something and have understood that it is serious. So I do not consider the risk to be high. However, we would like to do more and get climate thinking in all areas so that it is clearly mainstream throughout the budget. We want the day when we hopefully agree on a budget to have this as the next step: how do we ensure that the climate perspective is under all headings?
i-4b7e480337da633c-100	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I think it deserves to be stressed that farmers' income should nevertheless come from being able to sell products to us. It is therefore extremely important to safeguard a level playing field for both Swedish and European farmers. This is what they should be supported for, i.e. having a level playing field. But in addition, this sector will be hit very hard by climate change in the form of forest fires here in the northern part of Europe and in the form of major droughts, floods and so on. It is therefore important for this sector to change and be helped to cope with these changes. Does the Prime Minister see any opportunity to bring this forward further so that they also see the need for the agricultural sector to receive support and help to cope with climate change? It is not only the coal industry but also other parts of the industry that need to change.
i-4b7e480337da633c-103	Madam President, I would like Yes, and that is why the proposal was to count 40% as far as agricultural aid is concerned. A lot of people want to push it to that point. But as I said, there are also forces that want to push things the other way around so that we use more on Pillar 1, area payments. Once again, we agree with Austria, which has a greater interest in CAP than we do. In this part, however, they say that they fully agree. It is this type of agricultural aid that they also want to see. We're gonna have to keep helping each other around here. I think the Commission has a clear focus on the climate issue. Ursula von der Leyen is very clear. We will have to keep it up because we have to come up with a budget that we can turn to the citizens with and say: we have put forward a budget that helps in the climate transition.
i-4b7e480337da633c-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. As Åsa mentioned, it is very important that Sweden pushes for the EU's entire budget to be in line with the Paris Agreement. I have also heard the Prime Minister say before that Sweden is pushing for this. It is also very important that Sweden push to increase the part of the budget earmarked for the climate. However, I did not intend to ask a question about this today, but I would like to dwell on conditions and follow-up. It is, of course, generally important, in terms of EU money, with order and with follow-up and conditions, so that the money is used for what the Member States have agreed. It will become a reality and not just fine words and figures on a piece of paper. With regard to both the earmarked climate pool and the entire EU budget, clear conditions and follow-up are needed for the climate, so that the money really works for it. What is the Prime Minister's view of the possibility of moving forward and also gaining a hearing from other Member States in terms of reviewing and tightening up the follow-up systems for climate action within the budget?
i-4b7e480337da633c-110	Madam President, I would like Everyone says we need order. Then there are some different proposals with different points of focus and so on, but we are very clear about this. It is a matter of trust with the citizens that it is known that the money is being used for what it is intended for. There are constant discussions about tightening up the follow-up systems. In this context, we have not got into that discussion, but that is our line all the time. There are also several others who are on the same line. We really need to show that we have structures and systems to follow up and make demands on how the money is to be spent. It should be easy to follow up. That discussion remains essentially, although there is an ongoing dialogue in the EU on how to make even better use of the money.
i-4b7e480337da633c-112	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It sounds very good that this is alive in the discussions ahead, so that it does not come to the end. In connection with this, we also have the Just Transition Fund. It is very important that it exists – we will help each other. There is one condition: one must commit to climate neutrality by 2050 in order to get money. But it's good if the stakes come earlier. It makes more money by making efforts earlier. I wonder if there is a discussion about having a condition for 2030 as well. More steps along the way would be very good. Then it is also the case that the condition applies only to 50% of the money. It would, in fact, be reasonable if they were to be subject to 100% conditionality. The question is whether we can pursue that discussion in the future.
i-4b7e480337da633c-114	Madam President, I would like There are several who have mentioned that we should have a sub-goal. I think it's logical. It's a long way to 2050. This is also how Sweden has done – we set targets. Now I do not know all the details here, but I know that we have not yet seen such a concrete proposal. There are, however, a number of people who have mentioned it. It would be reasonable to have an intermediate target by 2030. It is clear that this whole mechanism must aim for us to act as early as possible and not to wait until perhaps it is too late. We want to see that the curve is broken. That's what we do in Sweden too. The political decisions we make should ensure that the curve breaks downwards, so that we get a faster reduction in emissions. I assume that this whole system of funds is based on this being done as early as possible.
i-4b7e480337da633c-125	Madam President, I would like Camilla Waltersson Grönvall has asked me what new concrete national measures I intend to take in order to clearly reduce the long waiting times in Swedish cancer care, what new concrete national measures I intend to take with a view to reducing the large unjustified regional differences in Swedish cancer care and how I intend to update the national cancer strategy so that it captures all relevant perspectives that exist regarding Swedish cancer care. Cancer care is developing rapidly in terms of patient centering, diagnostics, better treatment and use of digital support. At the same time, more people fall ill with cancer, and thanks to better treatment, more people live with cancer. This society must give cancer care the opportunity to respond to. This is why the Government has decided that the national cancer strategy will be updated annually through agreements between the state and Sweden's Municipalities and Regions. These annual agreements have been concluded since 2015 with the aim of increasing equality and short waiting periods in cancer care. The agreement for 2020 covers the majority of the total of SEK 500 million that the government invests annually in cancer care. The focus of the agreements has been to introduce standardised health care processes. In 2015, the first standardised courses of care were introduced, and in 2018 a total of 31 standardised courses of care were introduced. Together, these cover over 95 percent of all cancer diagnoses. The standardised healthcare processes aim to provide patients with suspected cancer with a high-quality and equal investigation, regardless of where they live in the country. The target for 2020, that at least 70 percent of those who fall ill with cancer should be investigated according to a standardised healthcare course, was achieved in 2018. Recent statistics from SKR show that the figure has reached 7 4 percent. This corresponds to over 100 000 people, and from surveys we know that the satisfaction of cancer patients with care has improved in several respects. Within the framework of the standardising of the medical course, there are ambitious so-called maximum lead times. They are not a promised guarantee of care, but are very high goals of how long the different elements need to take to be able to be carried out with good quality. Although the goals are high, of course, society should strive to achieve them. Between 2017 and 2019, the waiting time at national level for cancer was generally unchanged. So we have more to do here. The government will therefore continue to strengthen cancer care. This is clear, among other things, from the January agreement. In addition to reducing waiting times, it is about strengthening the patient with better rehabilitation, follow-up and palliative care. But it is also a question of reducing the need for care and treatment of cancer through preventive measures. Another important area is child cancer care, which together with rehabilitation and follow-up receives SEK 80 million in 2020. In addition, efforts are being made to develop and streamline methods for early detection and treatment of cancer. Early detection is important to increase survival. As an example, the Government allocates SEK 5 million to the Regional Cancer Centre Norr in 2020. The money goes to identify blood samples that can be used to detect several cancers earlier with the help of biobanks. This effort is part of the government's efforts to strengthen the life science area and the national strategy for life science, which the government presented in December 2019. The Government wants Sweden to continue to be at the forefront of developments in the healthcare sector – as well as for patients to benefit from new treatment methods, new medicines and new technologies. In 2020, the government will also present a new research policy proposal. Finally, the government will continue and intensify the strategic development of both the cancer strategy and the work against cancer in general. The Swedish people deserve an even better and more equal cancer care with shorter waiting times.
i-4b7e480337da633c-136	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. It is certainly a great pleasure to live in a country where we have such high medical quality and where we see that the development is very positive when it comes to everything from treatments and new diagnostics to, for example, precision medicine. But we also live in a country where we are at the bottom when it comes to healthcare queues. Over the last five years, we have seen doubled medical queues and tripled queues for child and youth psychiatry. What is now worrying me and which we are going to discuss in this interpellation debate are the increased queues for cancer care. The picture is double. While it is a fantastic medical quality, people in Sweden have a highly inaccessible and unequal cancer care. It is different depending on where in the country you live, and it also matters what socio-economic background you have. We see that the care queues are growing in cancer care. A few weeks ago, I and the Minister of Social Affairs were at a very nice event where we celebrated that we now have ten years of national cancer strategy to put behind us. There were three very clear stacks. There were three stacks over 2017, 2018 and 2019. They went in the wrong direction, that is, our queues are increasing. I am so glad that part of the national cancer strategy was introduced by the Alliance Government. Standardised health care is something that comes from there and that the red-green government has been involved in developing. But unfortunately it's just as clear when we look at them. Of the 29 standardised healthcare processes that were in place in 2017, the waiting periods in 2019 have increased for 21 and decreased for seven compared to 2017. These statistics are collected, so that everyone can read, from compilations from the Regional Cancer Centre in collaboration. We ask the question how the government can argue in different contexts that Swedish cancer care is relatively accessible and equal when facts, experience and knowledge point in a completely different direction. We have more to do, says the Minister of Social Affairs. I would really like to emphasise that. There is an enormous amount of work to be done. My wish is for the Minister of Social Affairs to raise the ambitions of the Swedish cancer queues. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is whether one is prepared to take greater national responsibility when it points so very different directions in different regions. That is, of course, a major concern.
i-LhENqYcNyb86YMBxLVYAkB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Walterson Grönvall, for the question! We meet in many contexts and talk about cancer care. If there are issues that unite the House and parties, it is really the commitment to cancer care. We know that those who suffer from cancer are increasing. Not least as one survives a cancer, that we are getting older and that we are curing other diseases, more and more people will experience a diagnosis of cancer at some point in their lives and without doubt of a close relative. We are all very strongly affected by this. Therefore, it has been so very positive that we have had a cancer strategy for a long time. I really do not feel the need to talk about which party and which majorities in the government have made the decisions. I have experienced an incredible consensus throughout this journey. On the occasion that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall refers to, Göran Hägglund, my representative as Minister of Social Affairs from the Christian Democrats, received a prize for taking the initiative. It is a huge responsibility that I really take very seriously to carry that work forward. There has been a huge focus on standardised healthcare processes. They say pakkeforløb in Denmark. There were many of us who were watching a decade ago and thought: How can we do the same in Sweden? Now we have standardised medical procedures. It's not something you put in big headlines. It's not that easy to explain. What does a standardised course of care mean? I made an attempt in my interpellation response to describe it. It is a way for healthcare to describe what is the minimum time you need to be able to carry out with quality everything from making diagnosis and getting results to getting started with treatment. This is a work that has only been going on for a few years. Some standardized medical procedures have only a few years on their necks. Now that they are in place and 95% of all cancers are covered by standardised health care processes, work must begin to squeeze each course of care together. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall was pleased to start by talking about medical results, what fantastic staff there are, and so on. It is important to start talking about survival in the context of cancer and link it to this. We have a growing proportion that survives, as we see when we look at five years of survival. Of course, it's very important. That's what really matters. But every day of waiting when it comes to cancer creates anxiety. It doesn't really matter what medical effect it has in different contexts. Clearly, it creates a great deal of anxiety and mental stress. In some cases, it is obvious that a shorter wait also improves the conditions for survival. It is because one wants to achieve a more equal cancer care that the standardised care processes have been introduced, in response to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's question, so that it can be comparable across the country. We've missed those opportunities. In fact, only cancer care has been seen as part of other care. You can look at how many people receive care within the healthcare guarantee. It is 98% who get it as opposed to a lower figure when it comes to healthcare in general. Perhaps SVF has protected cancer care in such a way that it still does its utmost. But the limits of the healthcare guarantee do not become a concept that is really relevant if you have SVF that is significantly shorter than that. I still want to share that knowledge and that knowledge. It is all about working with regional cancer centres, resources for cancer centres and standardised healthcare processes, but also with the new agreements where we will include and look at more about this. Of course, childhood cancer is an important part, as is rehabilitation. But it's also about how you have early detection and work more preventive. All this is about increasing equality and reducing the risk of socio-economic disparities.
i-4b7e480337da633c-161	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share in many things what Lena Hallengren says. At the same time, however, I am a little concerned when it sounds like it is the standardised health care processes that are going to solve the situation. What I am talking about is that the queues for standardised health care courses have not gone in the right direction in the years they have come into place, but rather it has gone the other way. This means that people have to live in that worry. The national health guarantee is not supported by a number of different cancer diagnoses, on the contrary. It looks completely different depending on the type of cancer you get. Right there and then it is so important that the health care system kicks off and works just when you need it. Standardised medical procedures are extremely good. But that is also where we see the queues being extended. I think it's hard to imagine if you haven't had someone very close or maybe even been affected by what it means to be in such a queue. It is terribly traumatic and distressing, knowing that it is a disease that, in the worst case, can lead to death. When it comes to pakkeforløb, which has been a form that we have looked at in Denmark and which Norway has also taken on board, standard medical procedures and pakkeforløb are not the same. It's been a role model. But we still need to see how both Denmark and Norway work. They take in a much larger part of the care chain and include the patient in a completely different way. Only a little while ago we received a summary from the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis that describes the situation in a very accurate way in its title: Unjustifiedly different – Socioeconomic and regional differences in cancer care. Does the Minister of Social Affairs not get very worried when you take part of this and see how different it looks, how unjustifiedly different it looks? When there are motives and you understand why things look different, that's one thing. But there are unwarranted differences. I would like to give some examples of this to illustrate it. In Östergötland, eight out of ten women do not receive their surgery within the promised maximum waiting time. That's quite a lot. This compares with the situation in Kronoberg, where eight out of ten women who receive breast cancer get their surgery within the promised time. If you live in Östergötland, are women and get breast cancer, you therefore have great reason to feel worried, compared to if you live in Kronoberg. In Västerbotten, nine out of ten men with prostate cancer do not receive their radiation treatment within the promised maximum waiting period. In comparison, in Västernorrland nearly three out of ten men with prostate cancer receive their radiation treatment within promised time. I can react to the fact that the figures are not even higher where they look best, but these are unjustified differences that should prompt the government to look at this and see what can be done. Why, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, does the government have such low ambitions? I may think it looks very serious when we see what the figures look like around Sweden. In what way does the Minister of Social Affairs see that it would be possible to take greater national responsibility?
i-4b7e480337da633c-173	Madam President, I would like I realise that it is the role of an opposition politician to keep saying that the government does not want anything and does not have any ambitions, but I do think it is quite inappropriate in this area. There are high ambitions. You could turn down the numbers over how many will undergo a SVF or how many will do so within maximum lead times. We could question the addition of resources. It is passed on to resources for the overall care, and it is clear that it also plays a role in cancer care. It does not have its own track, but is, of course, part of that care otherwise works when it comes to surgery, diagnosis, X-rays and much more. Resources thus play a major role. The National Council for Health Care, which has been in place for just a few weeks, will also play a major role. It is not just a question of resources or will; it is not often a question of the need for specialist skills. Then it's good that there are training places and resources to hire, but even better coordination is needed – it's not just mine but, I think, the industry's common understanding – to ensure that there is specialist expertise across the country. Better accessibility is needed in the overall care. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall said that much more is included in, for example, the Danish pakkef o rø ben. I can give you an example where it differs the other way. Primary care is not part of the Danish pakkef o rø ben, but it is the one in Sweden's equivalent. I think that's very good, because that's where much of the early discovery happens. It is important that knowledge is already there. But of course we can do better all the time. I do not understand how Camilla Waltersson Grönvall can perceive the government's position in any other way than that we should turn our ambitions up. I would also like to remind you that, if we have introduced pakef o rø b in the last three four years, it is clear that comparisons of statistics and waiting times should take their time. But it's also about that if you have gone from 14,622 patients who underwent an SVF in 2016 to 41,000 patients in 2019, it is a very large change in care. It is about getting structures in place and getting the entire care to work in a much more systematic way. I see that we can make comparisons more easily between regions and over time when the SVFs are now in place. However, it has been a very short time. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall also mentions the Swedish Agency for Health and Care Analysis, which has presented a report on unjustified differences in cancer care. Regardless of that report, I am very well aware that socio-economic differences play a role in this country. Whether we are talking about health care, health, school outcomes, employment or economic conditions, socio-economics plays a major role. Health care is no exception. However, the analysis by the Swedish Agency for Health and Care Analysis is based on quality register data for the period 2010-2016. It is a long time ago and involves a joint responsibility for both Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and my own party. The introduction of standardised health care courses actually followed. When it comes to the Authority's health and care analysis, it is absolutely essential to take on board what they say, but they have not really been able to take into account the standardised health care processes as one aspect. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that one way of working is with regional cancer centres – to update the cancer strategy together with them and to ensure that they have the resources to put structures in place. It is one thing to have healthcare professionals, care places and equipment in the care system, but another thing to make sure that you really work systematically, that the knowledge available is shared by everyone and that you do the same across the country. We are doing this work. Even more needs to be done, and I believe that we will see more results, not least as the standardised health care processes are able to operate in healthcare.
i-4b7e480337da633c-183	Madam President, I would like When we discuss this, I think it is important to be able to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. One relates to what the Swedish Agency for Health and Care Analysis says has happened during these years. This is about the socio-economic difference in access to Swedish cancer care. The second concerns the stacks I initially talked about, where the figures come from the regional cancer centres themselves. Their statistics show that the figures in the standardised health care course have gone the wrong way. However much I would like it not to be, when stacks go in the wrong direction there is a risk that socio-economic differences remain, which means that the same people have continued to suffer. This is the situation we are in right now – I as an opposition politician and Lena Hallengren as responsible Minister of Social Affairs. It's not good enough to look back in time. We need to look at what the developments are right now and dig where we stand. This means taking greater responsibility. On our part, we have dedicated specifically targeted resources precisely to deal with the cancer queues, because they worry us. Cancer is a public disease that affects every third Swede, and unfortunately we see no signs of a decrease. This means that we must equip ourselves for a future healthcare system in which we will have considerably more people who are ill with cancer. When it comes to looking at the other Nordic countries, I would like to point out that they have another organisation, which makes it difficult to compare, for example, primary care. We've got a lot of work to do. In my final speech, I would like to address the question once again to Lena Hallengren: are you prepared to take greater national responsibility, and what could it look like?
i-4b7e480337da633c-188	Madam President, I would like My view is that the government and the state take a major national responsibility for an important part of health care. To provide specific resources, have regional cancer centres, work with accessibility, provide additional resources for health care in general, have a care competence council in place – all of these things of course interact and help us get better conditions. But when Camilla Waltersson Grönvall says on several occasions that she has promised maximum waiting time, I would appeal to her to use maximum lead times and try to explain and describe that this is not a promised waiting time. It's about the minimum time you can imagine it takes to do things with high quality. Targets are incredibly high. I'm not going to change the targets so we can reach them. But one must be aware that these are extremely high targets we have set ourselves. It's not about a promised waiting period. However, we shall have accessibility. We will continue to work with contact nurses and other efforts that make people really feel safe when they meet the care. It turns out in studies that people who undergo a SVF and also have cancer – it happens that you start a SVF but it turns out that you don't have cancer – are more satisfied, which I think is a good and important grade. I cannot help sending Camilla Waltersson Grönvall that it is a pity that tax cuts are so high on the Moderate agenda. If we could refrain from them, it is clear that there will be resources to provide. The second thing I want to say is that prevention is also very important. It is important to stand up for things such as smoking stops and other measures that reduce things that can increase the risk of more people getting cancer. The resources will, of course, last much longer.
i-4b7e480337da633c-193	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked me what twelve priority areas the General Heritage Fund uses in its assessment of granting grants and how the government intends to ensure that no extremist organisations are granted funds from the General Heritage Fund. Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has also asked me whether I believe that the sharp criticism that has been made against the General Heritage Fund is justified and, if so, what measures I and the Government intend to take to ensure that the General Heritage Fund can be properly managed. The General Heritage Fund Act 1994 states that each year the Government must submit a report to the Riksdag, including the future direction of support from the Fund. In the Government's letter to the Riksdag, the Government sets out the direction and priority areas that the Swedish Inheritance Fund delegation should prioritise when allocating funds in the year in question. The Government's latest letter to the Riksdag provides a detailed account of the twelve priority areas for 2019. These are projects aimed at: Strengthening the rights of the child 中 increasing participation and strengthening democracy Preventing violence, bullying and harassment
i-4b7e480337da633c-197	Promoting mental and physical health 中 increasing participation in cultural life Supporting labour market entry
i-DpHxDSda6jaduL2Qaf6WFu	Strengthening the conditions for the reception and establishment of new arrivals 中 increase equality and equality between women and men; Strengthening the influence of children and young people. Public funding should never go to activities that are not compatible with our society's fundamental values, as they are expressed in the Constitution and in international conventions that Sweden is bound by. The public should be able to feel confident that funds are only paid out to organisations that respect the ideas of democracy. In its practice, the Inheritance Fund delegation applies a democratic condition whereby support is not given to organisations that are not on a democratic basis. The Inheritance Fund investigation in its report A legacy fund, as from 2018, proposed that a democracy condition with the meaning that support may not be given to an organisation that promotes, encourages or defends terrorism or otherwise does not respect human rights should be included in the General Heritage Fund Act. In June 2019, the Democracy Condition Investigation in its report "Democratic conditions for contributions to civil society" proposed a clearer and uniform democracy framework for state grants to civil society organisations. Both reports are currently being prepared in the Government Office, and the Government intends to come back to the two dossiers. The criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has made regarding Kammarkollegiet's accounting for the management of the General Heritage Fund for 2018 is mainly about the current accounting, including the time when the proceeds and the grants granted are to be recorded. The Swedish National Audit Office's observations derive from the fact that since 1 March 2018 the Swedish National Heritage Fund is to be regarded as a yield foundation, which means that Kammarkollegiet will apply certain provisions in the General Council of the Swedish Accounting Board. The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is therefore about accounting principles, not about the improper use of inheritance funds. Discussions have taken place between the Swedish National Audit Office, the Ministry concerned and Kammarkollegiet. Due to the Swedish National Audit Office's observations, Kammarkollegiet has started work to ensure that the current accounting rules are complied with.
i-4b7e480337da633c-203	Madam President, I would like The general inheritance fund was established by the Riksdag in 192 8, i.e. quite a while ago, after the succession rights were restricted to no longer to cousins. If heirs do not exist and wills cannot be found, the property of the deceased will fall to the General Heritage Fund. Associations and other organisations can apply for project support from the Fund to promote activities of a non-profit nature, and it should be pointed out that it is innovative projects that can be supported, not associations in general. The General Heritage Fund Regulation states that the Fund will provide support for projects involving children, young people and people with disabilities of all ages. Priority areas, as we have just heard, are now also the reception and inclusion of newcomers. The general inheritance fund has been accused of obtaining an inheritance by rejecting wills. In the case of bequeathing, the burden of proof is that this is true of these individuals. They probably don't have as strong muscles as Kammarkollegiet, who's going to collect the money from the estate to the fund. Many are the ones who have seen their inheritance taken away from them, instead of going to the fund. According to an article in Focus on 18 March 2018, this could be the next political scandal we face. M an notes that paedophiles and fraudsters live well on the Fund's contributions and describe the fund's recovery as follows: The same circles, with the same law firms, noses systematically and repeatedly up wealthy deceased and presents promises or found wills that are difficult to verify. There are several major legal cases in this respect, but fraud attempts can be difficult to detect. A SVT documentary shows that money has been granted to at least one project for children and young people whose leaders have been sentenced to one year in prison for child sexual abuse, sexual harassment and the exploitation of children for sexual posing. Madam President, I would like This is not exactly a flattering description. It would be appropriate for the government to explain how things have gone so wrong.
i-4b7e480337da633c-209	Madam President, I would like The government sees the assets of the general inheritance fund as public funds. We have also been told that the funds are not being used improperly, but perhaps this is not the main issue. The main question is whether the money has been used in a way that the deceased would have liked. Madam President, I would like I believe that there is every reason for Sweden to reconsider the decision to remove the right of inheritance for cousins, who were the reason for having to introduce the General Heritage Fund. The 1928 decision is simply out of date and out of date. First of all, the number of cousins each human has drastically decreased. At the beginning of the 20th century, six to ten children in a sibling group were not uncommon, and the number of cousins could then be 20 to 30, compared to today's more manageable two siblings and a number of cousins who are more like three to six. Thus, perhaps the main argument that led to the removal of the right of inheritance of cousins has disappeared, namely that the inheritance was divided into very many small parts. I quote from the 1928 bill that is often a large group of cousins, and in these cases, when there is no will, it is usually small estates, because the inheritance will be divided into small parts. ..................................................... Today, rather, the person who dies and has no closer relatives than cousins who can inherit also has close ties with their cousins because they are the whole family of that person. It is therefore not comparable to an ordinary person with closer relatives who are also heirs. Another reason that no longer exists for cousins to inherit was the difficulty of tracking cousins who emigrated, when large parts of Sweden's population had moved abroad. Still, people dreamed of facing happiness across the Atlantic. Then it was not easy to track all cousins to a deceased in Sweden. However, Sweden is no longer a country of emigration, as we were a hundred years ago, so the problem itself is basically no longer there. Added to this is that new technology has made it very easy to keep in touch with cousins across the Atlantic. In particular, the General Heritage Fund can be seen as a reason for giving cousins the right of inheritance back, as this fund, to say the least, does not follow the original idea, but gives money for things far beyond the maintenance and upbringing of the growing race, as stated in the original bill. The fund has also sometimes, through courts and lawyers, taken large sums of money when wills existed, but these had minor shortcomings. Rather, what we have heard here today reinforces the image that the General Heritage Fund is not at all useful in the way it was intended. It has quickly become a way for the government to devote even more resources to pointless integration projects.
i-4b7e480337da633c-217	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats never deny themselves. Firstly, there is a question about priority areas, that no extremist organisations should be granted funds and how we should act in relation to the criticism of the General Heritage Fund, and then there is a completely different discussion here. Then it would have been appropriate to ask an interpellation about cousins, about raping for oneself and about the rules being obsolete. That is an opinion that I do not share. In addition, the Swedish Democrats are of course at the end that the fund is only used for immigrant groups to get extra resources and get into society, and that is not what we should spend money on, according to the Swedish Democrats. I have answered the question of which twelve priority areas are used in the assessment. I do not feel that any of them in any way violates the existing regulations or any intentions. Nor do I feel that there are twelve points that would in any way lead us to encourage the granting of funds to any kind of extremist organisation. In fact, I think it is relevant that the interpeller himself can reflect on whether we should discuss the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which is done very seriously. In fact, I expect all Members of Parliament to listen to the authorities we have and not to have a discussion in this House about loose claims or about an article in any newspaper. As Minister of Social Affairs, I act on the facts that exist and on the basis of the reviews that the Swedish National Audit Office does. There is no reason to make any major changes, as the criticisms that were mainly concerned with current accounting. However, if there are other criticisms that the Swedish National Audit Office has or can be proven, we can discuss it. Please bring in an interpellation about the entire structure of the inheritance fund, because this is not the case!
i-4b7e480337da633c-221	Madam President, I would like Hard criticism has been made, and the government has started to pull its ears off the way in which the funds were actually paid out. In 2017, an investigation was set up which, among other things, had the task of proposing how a condition can be designed that ensures that only organisations that in their activities respect values that characterise a democratic society can receive support. In 2018, the Government appointed a further investigation, now with the aim of investigating democracy conditions in state grant funding. These are investigations which, of course, would not have been set up if the operation of the General Heritage Fund had been considered satisfactory. Projects granted funding should, of course, be distinct from political positions. This may be problematic, since it is the Arvsfond delegation – which is appointed by the government – that decides which projects are to be supported. It is therefore necessary to look at which organisations receive the money. It would be appropriate for the contributions from the General Heritage Fund to be allocated to organisations that can be supported by citizens in general. Projects related to the left-wing foundation Expo have been granted funding, as well as projects linked to Ibn Rushd – a study association that in turn has links to the Muslim Brotherhood. These, among other things, have therefore been granted funds. It is far from what can be supported by the Swedish public. Madam President, I would like This is not very flattering at all. On the contrary, it is quite devastating for confidence in the General Heritage Fund and its decision-making. The government must take this seriously and ensure that the funds are managed with the utmost respect for the deceased. For example, the fact that after a life's work the money goes to projects related to the Muslim Brotherhood is something that surely makes you turn to the grave. Is the Minister of Social Affairs satisfied with the distribution of funds by the National Heritage Fund?
i-4b7e480337da633c-225	Madam President, I would like The problem is the government's initial value in terms of inheritance. The government assumes that you know when to die, that you know under what conditions you will die and that you have also long before considered which laws apply. If you don't know this, the state will take your assets and turn them into public funding. For those who have children, it is obvious to assume that the children will inherit, but it is not at all certain that this will happen. An entire family can suddenly be wiped out in another bombing, for example – about 200 bombings hit Sweden last year. Then there are no children left who can inherit. We cannot have planned for this. The fact that the inheritance will suddenly end up with associations such as the Somali National Association in Sweden, Skånes Horn of the Africa Association or Yalla Strappan is rarely in the interest of the deceased. The general inheritance fund was formed to provide for the upbringing family's upbringing and upbringing, as it was so beautifully called. In the bill it was also written down as a special fund for the promotion of children's and young people's care and education. Now we hear the government talking about public funding. How do child and youth care and education really go together with the Somali National Association in Sweden, Skånes Horn of the Africa Association or Yalla Strappan? I can't get it together.
i-4b7e480337da633c-229	Madam President, I would like It is a sad mess, may I say, in the speeches made by the Swedish Democrats in this interpellation debate. It confuses the issues and makes it sound like it would be extremist organisations that are being fattened – that is probably the purpose of the entire interpellation debate. You make it sound like they're the ones who get the money and that the government sort of has a direct channel to those organizations. I would very much like to recommend to the interpelllan to ask a question about succession rights, which is something quite different. Then the relevant minister can answer that question. It is a much bigger issue than the question of which twelve priority areas are used in the assessment for granting grants today. Then I thought it was a very clear answer. I do not know whether Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has read the answer, or whether she has just read out finished lines. The question was, of course, how to ensure that no extremist organisations are granted funds. The answer was very clear. Two investigations have been set up to ensure that funds are used properly. They're being prepared. The last report of the investigation came this summer. Everyone in this House is well aware that an investigation that came in the summer of 2019 is not a bill and carried out six months later. But this means that it is near in time. It is good if we ask questions and listen to the answers, and you do not have to pretend that the commitment does not exist. What journalists are to write and what programmes are to be broadcast in Swedish Radio, the Swedish Democrats have their views on. They obviously also have views on which organisations should benefit from the General Heritage Fund. This is not how the government governs the General Heritage Fund today, but a general inheritance fund that is run on the basis of these priority objectives. The Swedish National Audit Office is the authority that reviews this. They have not found grounds for criticism based on how to act. But when it comes to the whole of civil society and all the organisations that receive both state grants and grants and support from the General Heritage Fund, it goes without saying that we want it to be organisations that are based on democratic foundations. Adding Expo to the list of organisations that are considered extremists can really stand for the Swedish Democrats.
i-4b7e480337da633c-235	Madam President, I would like In addition to the criticism I made earlier, the Swedish National Audit Office's report also appeared. It notes that the General Heritage Fund is deficient in current accounts. In fact, a state fund should be able to manage its accounts properly. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his response to the interpellation, in the hope that the shortcomings will be remedied and that we will not have to find out in the future any more reports of unduly paid subsidies, not infrequently in the form of millions of sums actually paid to extremists or other inappropriate recipients. You owe this to the deceased and their true heirs.
i-4b7e480337da633c-237	Madam President, I would like Let me conclude the debate by saying that if Mrs From Utterstedt had read the full interpellation response, we would have saved many lines. It is very clear that there is a criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office regarding current accounts, including the time when the revenue and the grants granted are to be recorded. It is about that since 1 March 2018, one should be regarded as a yield foundation and should apply certain provisions. This has been discussed and resolved. It is a pity that Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt does not devote her last speech to explaining why Expo is an inappropriate organisation. Is it because they look at right-wing extremism, racism and xenophobia? Is that a problem for the Swedish Democrats?
i-4b7e480337da633c-239	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby and Lars Beckman have asked me a number of questions about the lack of protection for individuals undergoing beauty surgery and what measures the government will take to tighten regulation. First of all, I would like to stress that I take very seriously the reports that have been made in the media about people who have undergone various kinds of beauty attacks and who have been injured. Moreover, in some of these cases there are very rogue operators who continue to operate despite their inadequacy. Of course we must put an end to this. In October last year, the government referred a proposal for a new law on aesthetic surgery and injection treatments. These are beauty practices that have been considered to be most likely to cause injury and that require medical competence to perform. The government wants to strengthen patient safety in this area. We want the same patient protection legislation that applies in ordinary healthcare to businesses in the beauty industry as well. This means, among other things, that there must be the staff, premises and equipment necessary for the operations to meet the requirements of good care. The legislative proposal also includes requirements for 18-year-olds to undergo treatments. It also includes requirements for consent and reflection periods and for detailed information on, among other things, risks associated with the treatments. Today, there are no requirements for the competence of persons performing beauty surgery. Of course, we need to remedy that. Therefore, the proposal means that only specialist doctors should be allowed to perform surgery and that only dentists, doctors and nurses should be allowed to carry out injection treatments. Those who do not have a licence in these professions should therefore not be allowed to do, for example, lip enlargements or breast surgery. As an individual, you should feel confident that it is legitimate personnel who perform the operations. It should also be possible to trust that the handlers are under the supervision of the Health and Care Inspection. Lars Beckman also raises a very important issue, namely that of liability insurance. The government shares this view, and the bill requires that a patient's insurance policy must be taken out by a provider. This means that it will be easier for individuals to obtain compensation in the event of damage. All in all, we see that the current legislative proposal will lead to a significant increase in the protection of persons undergoing beauty surgery and injection treatments. Unfortunately, for a long time, there has been a lack of clear regulatory framework for beauty interventions. For various reasons, the proposals of previous investigations have not been implemented. For example, the consultation bodies have assessed the proposals as inadequate, and the government has chosen to investigate the matter again. We want to tighten up the requirements in the beauty industry, and I hope that we will now go to the finish. The proposal is for a bill to be submitted to Parliament in autumn 2020 and for the new legislation to apply in 2021. As I mentioned at the outset, the bill has been referred, and we are currently analysing referrals within the Ministry of Social Affairs. Before new legislation is in place, the current rules apply, in particular consumer law. However, we see that the requirements for beauty treatments need to be tightened up, which is why the government has referred a proposal for a new law that increases patient safety for people undergoing these treatments.
i-4b7e480337da633c-249	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Every year about 100 000 Swedes make different beauty moves in Sweden – 100 000 Swedes. According to Aftonbladet, of these, approximately one in ten complications are reported. One in ten customers, Madam President! There are 10,000 Swedes reporting that each year they have some kind of complication after a beauty treatment. Already in 2014, the Alliance government set up an investigation to solve this serious social problem. The investigation came, but then unfortunately the then Minister of Health Annika Strandhäll simply closed this investigation. That's how they started a little bit from the beginning. I am pleased that the current Government says that legislation is needed and that the Government takes this issue very seriously. We fully agree that legislation is needed. But I can only regret that it will take so long. This interpellation debate and other debates are important. Aftonbladet and SVT have come up with very valuable consumer information, and I think there are a lot of people who find it incredible that I and the Government could go out on Drottninggatan and put up a sign that says: Welcome in and do beauty surgery! There are no license requirements. Serious operations can be performed without any permission, follow-ups or controls. That is why it is so serious that it has taken so long. The latest proper media review has been carried out by Aftonbladet, and anyone who wants to see the consequences of the government's unfortunately not getting this legislation in place can go into Aftonbladet and see the elements for 200 seconds. You can also go to SVT's website and look at all the mistreatments that many young girls have suffered around Sweden because there is no legislation in place. It is clear that the Government can say that there is consumer law, but the Swedish Consumer Agency itself has said that they do not have the competence. Nor does Arn have the competence to deal with these issues. And what is the consumer protection we could possibly have today if something were to happen? Well, it's that the person who caused the damage may have to do it again. I'm pretty sure the government or anyone else wouldn't lie under the knife again in a person who's caused a serious injury. It is unfortunate that the legislation is not in place, and I now hope that the Government, unlike previous ministers, will really ensure that legislation is put in place. This applies not least to insurance, because, of course, liability insurance should be included as part of the price. It is not reasonable for the general or we taxpayers to pay for insurance, but it should of course be a strict, private liability insurance included in the price. I will come back to this in my next speech.
i-4b7e480337da633c-258	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Minister Hallengren for his reply. If you want to be nice, you have to suffer pain, there's an old expression that says. But surely it cannot seriously be the government's view that men and women who visit a beauty clinic should be completely extradited to more or less serious actors. Beauty surgery is today an area where the law of the jungle applies. No legislation protects those who choose to intervene, with the exception of a certain level of consumer protection. From the serious actors in the beauty industry, the frustration is great that charlatans can engage in activities that endanger people. Today, Madam President, Sweden is one of the very few countries that have not been able to get legislation in place in the area of beauty. Legislation is needed that clearly describes the qualifications required and the responsibilities of the industry. As early as 2014, there was an investigation initiated by the Alliance Government. A year and a half after this government took office, that investigation was closed. The National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned, but six years later, no legislation is within reach. That is very remarkable, Madam President. In the meantime, while the government is waiting, people are faced with these scammers. They'll have their bodies destroyed and their lives destroyed. Unfortunately, the fact that this is not a priority for the government seems too obvious. But now something really has to happen. Although the government's passive stance on the matter can be interpreted as actually feeling that anyone who wants to be fine suffers pain, it is not worthy of a modern society. Beauty operations are constantly increasing in number, as my colleague Lars Beckman said, and it is the government's task to ensure that the legislation is in keeping with developments. People should not have to be exposed to rogue representatives. The serious part of the industry, which is already assuming its responsibilities, should not have to defend itself against these harmful elements, and those who try to exploit others should know that they are actually at risk of being punished for their behaviour. Madam President, I would like It is good that the government is now saying that legislation is under way. But it's going too slow. I really don't think the government thinks it's okay for people to get hurt, but it can't be news that this actually happens and that the number of charlatans increases as an ever-increasing number of people choose to let themselves be injected or lie under the knife. Madam President, I would like I am a little worried about the actual insights of the Government when she claims to be concerned today about the cases she reads about in the media. Unfortunately, these rogue actors have long before the media started reporting about them operating – let me be a little Gothenburg fun – undisturbed. Young girls and boys have gone bad and had their lives ruined. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to rephrase my questions to the Government: has the government been too poorly aware of how much damage these rogue actors in the beauty industry have done? Is that why the work on a law for the beauty industry has not been a priority?
i-4b7e480337da633c-268	Madam President, I would like When I received these two interpellations, I thought that, as an interpellant, one can hardly say that nothing is done when a bill is soon on the table of Parliament. Of course, it is always possible to say when you are in opposition. But to be honest, it's gonna be a little unserious. First you run for eight years, and then the last thing you do is set up a beauty investigation. That's what happened in 2014. If that investigation had submitted legislative proposals such as the consultation bodies – authorities and relevant stakeholders – we would have put them into circulation. The problem was that there was too much focus on that it would be a consumer service, not that it would be a healthcare perspective. That, of course, is what is needed. If there had been enforceable legislation, it would not have had the desired effect. The proposals of the beauty inquiry, which were submitted for consultation, received widespread criticism. One of the questions I asked when I was assigned as Minister of Social Affairs was what the work had been like during my term of office. That's the problem. That is why the National Board of Health and Welfare has been given a mandate, and we have written a legislative proposal that will also deal with problems that are visible. There is no point in putting forward a proposal for the sake of the matter, but the aim is for us to be able to regulate the market. It is about the age limit and that there are specialist staff. They're important parts. I was clear about the conclusion of my interpellation response – Lars Beckman might have missed it – when I said that a legislative proposal requires that a patient insurance provider be required to take out a patient insurance policy. I concluded by saying that this is the reason why the government has referred a proposal for a new law that increases patient safety for people undergoing these treatments. Yes, it should be included in patient insurance. Yes, we will present a bill. It will be presented in autumn 2020 and will be implemented in 2021. It will be difficult to do it much faster than that, no matter how nice the posts interpellanters do here.
i-4b7e480337da633c-273	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the fact that the Government thinks I am doing great contributions!
i-4fb1c90801a19696-0	I'm flattering you a little! ) Madam President, I would like There is a point of reference that every minister uses in any interpellation debate, namely that something was the then moderate led a alliance government's fault. It does not matter what issue we are discussing in this House, it was always the fault of the alliance government. Of course, this government does the same thing. I know that in another interpellation debate the Government referred to the media. I don't know if the government usually uses Google, but try it. Read Swedish Radio Ekot's news articles from June 7, 2017. The title of the "Beauty Investigation" is closed. It reads as follows: and the Ministry of Social Affairs closes the so-called Beauty Investigation. This is now reported by Minister for Health Annika Strandhäll 1.5 years after the report was presented. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like 100,000 people do beauty surgery each year, and 10,000 people are injured each year — some with probably simpler complications, others with severe complications. In fact, it is the government's responsibility to push for legislation, and it is the Government's responsibility to take the issues very seriously. It is possible to show sympathy with the government's first speech, namely that the government sees the problem and will solve it. The Government's second speech could possibly be held at an SSU congress to poke doorknockers in SSU. It's not serious. The reason why the government has begun to push the question may be the interpellations that we started to ask when the government resumed the investigation a number of years ago. In 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020– maybe there will be legislation in place in 2021. Madam President, I would like It is not taking people's health seriously that 10,000 people are at risk of complications, or that they have experienced complications, in beauty surgery. That's 10,000 people a year. Of course, this government should have pushed the legislation forward considerably faster. I think many people do not understand how in a welfare country such as Sweden, where so much is regulated in detail, it can be possible to lie under a knife with, as I saw in a media record, a truck driver. No offense to truck drivers, but maybe they're not great at beauty surgery. That is the legislation that needs to be put in place. I think that the government has taken too long, that it has gone far too slowly, but it is now important that there is relevant legislation in place. It is not just us Moderates who have intervened in the matter over and over again. The Swedish Consumer Agency has written a detailed report, which the Government can take part of, which deals with beauty operations. The Swedish Consumer Agency has pointed out the lack of legislation and said that the government must act. In this way, I welcome the fact that legislation is coming into place, and that must happen urgently. I hope that other issues will not get in the way that this legislation does not come into place.
i-4b7e480337da633c-281	Madam President, I would like I repeat the question put by my colleague, Lars Beckman: what is taking so long? You've had some time. I understand, everyone here understands, that a legislative process needs to take time, needs to be correct and needs to be good. In the meantime, however, the government has not said much about how they view the problems of the beauty industry. I don't know if Minister Hallengren has many contacts with the beauty industry. I got it! I have acquaintances who conduct serious business in the industry, and they usually receive young girls who have been exposed to rogue actors in the beauty industry every week. AnnAnn-Louise has told me about a young girl, barely 18 filled, who has been with a doctor in Gothenburg. There her lips have been injected with fillers. The girl got a blood clot in her lip, and she went back to the doctor. The doctor said, unfortunately, that he could do nothing and that she had to look for someone else. Someone else is a serious actor, as my friend. The truck driver to whom my colleague Lars Beckman referred, he has not read about in the newspaper. He is really in Gothenburg. He drives overseas, and there he buys cheap botox and restylane ampoules. Then he has learned to inject in his free time. There are several examples, but these are stories that I have heard for a number of years. The question for the serious part of the industry has been: Why doesn't the government do anything? My answer has been: I think something is going on. Then the next question has been: Why doesn't the government say anything? This can't be news to them. China has legislation. Russia has legislation. Countries that we consider to be dictatorships have legislation that protects in this area. What is it, Madam President, that makes us unable to do this? Why did it take the government a year and a half to conclude that the alliance government's investigation was not 100% accurate? I feel, Madam President, that this issue is not a priority. We have previously listened to an interpellation debate between Minister Hallengren and Camilla Waltersson Grönvall on cancer care. Of course, if you should weigh the two against each other, you can say that if you choose to put yourself under the knife to get a little better looking, you may not be as prioritised as someone who gets cancer and does not get the care that it thinks it deserves in Sweden. But this is still an area where Sweden should have legislation in place for a long time. It is an area, Madam President, where we should be ashamed not to have managed to get legislation in place a long time ago. Then the Alliance government will also have to take responsibility for the time taken to get an investigation. But we did get an investigation. We handed it over to the current Social Democratic-led government. It waited a year and a half before it came up with: Hmm, we'll probably start a new investigation. This won't hold. The young guys and the girls out there deserve better.
i-4b7e480337da633c-291	Madam President, I would like This is probably one of the most remarkable interpellation debates I have had. I think that for those who come in and listen to the debate now it really sounds like the government thinks this is completely uninteresting. That's not true. None of us think this is a development that we should have. It is appalling, and it is not about me reading about this yesterday before I stood in the speaker's chair. Of course I've taken note of this before. It is not least a question of hearing the views of serious stakeholders. Lars Beckman, who always has a high opinion of himself, I still have to disappoint a little by saying that it is not Lars Beckman's interpellations that have pushed this bill forward. But to feel that there is great pressure from all parties of course makes it easier to develop a proposal and a new investigation, because there are many different interests. In fact, I did not try to blame the Alliance government in any way. Lars Beckman himself chose to say that the Alliance government was setting up an investigation. Then I had to explain that it was almost the last thing you did, and once it came back it didn't hold. This is the case with investigations – not all investigations provide the legislative proposals and the constitutional texts that we would need. It helps a lot when they do. You often try for quite some time: Can't we use parts of this? Can't you just fix a little bit? Can't we take most of it? But the criticism of referrals was too great, and it was too difficult to repeat. Finally, we decided to close that investigation and take new steps to make this a good thing. Otherwise, in my opinion, delusions are allowed to occur, if one spreads a picture that now we are going to get to grips with the beauty industry, but the measures are not at all what people expected. Having an 18-year limit and patient insurance and clarifying that it is specialist competence that is required is very important, and we fully agree on that. It will be in place, and we in this House will do well to help and ensure that it goes through in Parliament as soon as possible. It will be presented to Parliament this autumn, and it will be implemented in 2021. There is no one trying to slow this down, so I feel it is a pity if you paint such a picture. It's terrible that girls– it's certainly both guys and girls, but of course the majority of girls; we can surely agree on that – for various reasons feel that this is something they want to spend money on, something they want or need. We should not in any way moralize this, but it is sad to see the results that can be achieved. And it's not about wanting a second chance; it's not certain that it's even possible. Sometimes it is people who are in this business and do not feel a greater responsibility, which I would also like to stress is a terrible thing. It is important that we see this not as a consumer issue but as a matter of care. The entire health regulations that, so to speak, occur when patients generally do not receive the right care or there is a mistake, it should be done right away. You shouldn't end up in a position where you should go the usual consumer route. In some cases you can use it too, but this is about putting the large parts in place and bringing about a radical change. We will also follow up on the fact that it is actually being implemented.
i-4b7e480337da633c-297	Madam President, I would like We therefore agree that legislation is needed. We agree that this must be done urgently. What we do not agree on is that it has taken a long time for this government. But, Madam President, I have one question left in my unanswered interpellation: what action is the Minister taking in his area of responsibility to help all those who have been mistreated before the new legislation came into place? What is the Minister's response to the perhaps 50 000 mistreated people who have been affected, who have been in trouble, and who may have been given life-long harm? I think a lot of people are curious about it. What does the Minister intend to do to help everyone who has been mistreated?
i-4b7e480337da633c-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Minister Hallengren, for your answer! I agree with Lars Beckman's question about those who are already mistreated. They are today in a no-man's-land, and no-one is protecting them. I'm also curious about what the answer to that will be, because these stories are real. These girls – who are in the majority, as the Government said – are for real. They're there. I believe that this is an area where it is the serious part of the industry that is driving development, because these operations will not stop because of the horror stories. They will continue. These young girls today do not have the information and knowledge they need to make the right decisions. It's expensive procedures. You choose what sounds good and that costs the least. Often they are people who promise a lot but deliver not only little but also bad those who are the cheapest – on paper. This is something that is happening now. Something happens every day. Girls get hurt today. We often talk about not having retroactive legislation. But in this particular area, where we know that legislation is under way, the government should be able to go out and say that those of you who are mistreated today are in danger of getting into trouble, and those of you who have been mistreated should be able to get redress or compensation for your ruined lives. It would be good if the government could tell these young girls, who are often concerned, who have their lives ruined at the beginning of their lives.
i-4b7e480337da633c-303	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your continued commitment to this issue. Of course it's super important and urgent. I would also like to say that even when we have this legislation in place, there is a risk that rogues will continue to operate in the industry. It will be incredibly important to have supervision, to work to ensure that the legislation is complied with, because there can still be situations where someone thinks that this one is cheaper than the other. The other one is legit, but it can't be that bad. It will be a matter of supervision and of being able to intervene but also to a very large extent on information that does not take these risks. My answer at this point is that there is no retroactive legislation. I can't stand here and kind of make up that we're going to do it more or less retroactively. That is not how Swedish legislation works. But it becomes incredibly important when the legislation is in place that we ensure that it also becomes a reality. As I said, there may be shady actors who think they can make money from this – I will not repeat the bad examples, because they should not get any advertising – and who act on it regardless of whether there is legislation or not. It is completely incomprehensible how this right can be acquired in society today. I am pleased that we will have this legislation in place. We must help to take it through Parliament and make it a reality.
i-4b7e480337da633c-307	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I believe that there is a need for a review of the regulatory framework within the law on freedom of choice so that we can live up to competition neutrality. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has also asked me what measures I intend to take in my area of responsibility to prevent the Inspection for Health and Care from saying no to other forms of operation. Part of the government's policy is based on a factual agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. The Government intends to make proposals to ensure that operators, regardless of their operating form, have equal conditions. Competitive neutrality must exist between public and independent healthcare providers, both in terms of economic conditions and the functioning of licensing and in terms of quality requirements. On 1 January 2019, new rules began to apply to which types of activities require permission from IVO. One such activity is home care, according to the Social Services Act. According to information provided by IVO, the so-called care VAT is not included in the Authority's assessment of the conditions for obtaining authorisation to operate. Authorisations may be granted only if the activity meets the requirements of good quality and safety. In addition, IVO imposes requirements regarding understanding, suitability and financial conditions to obtain a permit and then retain it.
i-4b7e480337da633c-310	Madam President, I would like In 2009, the Freedom of Choice Act, or LOV, was established to which we are rather carelessly shortening it. The guiding principles of this legislation were competition neutrality and care on equal terms. In the answer I received from the Government... and I'm sorry I forgot to thank you for that at the beginning... the Government said that it intends to make proposals to ensure that actors, whatever their mode of operation, have equal conditions. Competitive neutrality must exist between public and independent healthcare providers, both in terms of economic conditions and the functioning of licensing and in terms of quality requirements. I thought that was the key words when the Freedom of Choice Act was established in 2009, and now an investigation is being set up to ensure that this really applies. The January agreement clearly states in paragraphs 60 to 63 that health care should be operated on an equal footing and in a competitively neutral manner. In my interpellation to the Government, I highlighted Umeå. I am ashamed to have to highlight Umeå, in my own country, as a bad example, where the municipality does not understand how to treat alternative forms of operation on equal terms and does not even understand how to treat them competitively. A couple of years ago, the red majority would abolish the law of freedom of choice in Umeå. At the last minute, a couple of parties managed to change their minds, and the law of freedom of choice was retained. Now, however, a new dismantling is on the way. Umeå's private performers offer top-class home care and receive the lowest remuneration in Sweden. On behalf of a number of home help providers, the Audit Office Grant Thornton has investigated and compiled the costs of Umeå Municipality's own home help service, as the municipality itself was unable to produce an account of the cost of a home help hour. The result showed that an hour's municipal home service was estimated to cost about $425. This was 2018. At the same time, the private operators received an average of SEK 313 in compensation per hour. No other Swedish municipality pays such a low compensation – the average compensation is approximately SEK 401. Here we can discuss where competition neutrality and care are on equal terms. The private service providers in Umeå account for about 60 per cent of the home service efforts carried out, and I think it is even more important to pinpoint the major problem in terms of competitiveness neutrality and care on equal terms. Now I know what the Government will say, namely that you should not be involved in municipal self-government. But I think it is very important to raise this issue even higher, because Umeå Municipality does not understand what the law on freedom of choice means. That is why I am very interested in raising this issue and hearing what the Minister for Social Affairs has to say.
i-4b7e480337da633c-317	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has heard my answer – I have given it – and it is difficult to develop it so much more in the lines here. When Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm describes the situation in Umeå, it becomes difficult to raise it to a general discussion. I am not familiar with the situation specifically in Umeå. What I want to send back to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is that it is up to each municipality whether you want the law of choice or not. This is clearly something that Umeå Municipality has discussed, and the municipality has landed in continuing to have several performers. It's possible to have different opinions – and we have that on and off – about how to act, which actors work and don't work and how to get long-term. But there is one aspect that can be addressed just to describe what it could be about, and I have no idea whether this is the case in Umeå. There are quite a few cases in home care where private operators do not take care of nights and weekends; that is not unusual at all. Instead, it is the municipal home care service that will provide these very parts. These aren't the cheapest hours– they're pretty hard to get staff to. It requires a completely different staffing density and a different type of organisation. It can be considered whether it is reasonable that a private operator does not have to take care of the entire mission but can actually say that the operator cannot handle certain parts or that it can also turn to some type of municipal staff bank in case of sick leave. I am not saying that this is the case in Umeå, and I do not know how many cases this applies. However, there are too many situations where this is actually the case. It is not just the sum – the compensation per hour – that should be equal. I understand Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm that she almost equates these things, but it's about what you put in the mission. It is difficult to talk about, because Sweden looks very different. Depending on this – and this applies from distance and conditions to target groups and how heavy the users you go home to are – there is reason to shape the systems so that they are as well-functioning as possible. I think there needs to be a good local discussion on how this should work. Even the question that you do not have to take full responsibility and can take the pieces you want is one that can be discussed. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm wondered if LOV does not mean that you should have competition neutrality. This is not least about what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm himself described: There is sometimes a suspicion from all sides, and it is felt that there is no competition neutrality in the remuneration or in the mission. There are different ways of seeing it, and there are reasons for us to review it and – if necessary – also to put forward proposals that bring us closer to competitiveness neutrality. That is absolutely the starting point.
i-4b7e480337da633c-325	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the fact that the Government does not have full insight into the internal affairs of Umeå Municipality. I also have great respect for the fact that the Government does not know what the whole business looks like. That's it. The Government is absolutely right – of course there is a difference in how to set up the sector in different municipalities, with night patrols and with different permits. The government is absolutely right – that's not what I'm after. What I want to emphasise is that the situation in Umeå has gone so far that all agreements with the private operators from now on have been terminated, and new agreements will be signed from 1 May. This means that the difference is more than 80 kroner an hour. I have had many conversations with various private performers and also with them in the municipality's own direction in Umeå. They say that this is not about equal levels of compensation, but about a level that compensates for the expenses incurred by the performers. As of 1 May, new contracts will be signed and the costs of private operators will be charged. This means that private performers are allowed to spend up to 60 days with salary costs. A company, which is quite large in Umeå, has a salary cost of 3 1⁄2 million. Is this company going to be out with money for two months? The Government understands the sum of the problem that I am trying to highlight. This is a challenge that we are facing and which IVO has pointed out, based on the fact that we are going in and looking at the finances of all the private operators and have the view that all private operators have a deteriorating economy. This is, of course, because the levels of compensation are so low. It is not a treatment on equal terms that I think is acceptable. This means, unfortunately, that from 1 May onwards, all 17 private actors in Umeå will be standing on the brink of ruin and will gradually, one by one, demand themselves in bankruptcy. Then we do not have healthcare on equal terms and no competition neutrality. I think it is important to raise this issue a little higher because Umeå Municipality does not treat its private actors in a fair way when you do this. When they represent the highest customer satisfaction but the lowest level of compensation in Sweden it is not fair.
i-4b7e480337da633c-333	Madam President, I would like I hear what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says, and I assume that's a discussion in Umeå. But the question to me as Minister of Social Affairs from the interpeller is whether there is a need for a review of the regulatory framework of the Freedom of Choice Act so that we can live up to competition neutrality. Then my answer is that, to the extent that we need to review, we are looking at this in our cooperation between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals to ensure that we have competition neutrality. In what form it will take and what the result will be, we will have to come back to. I then thought it was a bit important to also answer Elisabeth Rahm's second question, namely whether I intend to take action in my area of responsibility to prevent IVO from saying no to other forms of operation. I have, of course, listened to what is actually happening on this point. According to the information I have received from IVO, it is not true that the authority refuses authorisation for activities to be carried out under private supervision, nor is it linked to the so-called healthcare VAT. It is important for me to be told that it is not that evaluation and the trial that is to take place, but IVO will give permission to those actors who could carry out home services or other activities under the Social Services Act in this case because they meet the requirements that are laid down. I think it is important that we are clear about this.
i-4b7e480337da633c-335	Madam President, I would like No, IVO may not say no, but they have strong opinions on the ability of private operators to operate on the basis of the poor economy they have because of the low levels of remuneration. A rapid takeover made in Umeå, thanks to Grant Thornton's search of the home service in Umeå municipality, shows that if the 17 private operators after 1 May were forced into bankruptcy, which is quite likely, it would mean an increased cost for Umeå municipality by SEK 50 million per year. It's pretty big money we're talking about, and it's our tax money we're talking about. I think it is grateful that, as the Minister says, an investigation has been set up. I hope that it will be as quick as possible so that the government can present a proposal in the near future that means that we must be able to provide care on equal terms and ensure that competition neutrality applies to all actors in healthcare, including the municipality of Umeå.
i-4b7e480337da633c-338	Madam President, I would like I would just like to emphasise that there is no investigation in place, but work is under way on this. Then we will have to think about and come back with the form of it and what the results will be. However, we intend to be able to give up proposals in this area. I think it matters whether this is a discussion about the conditions in Umeå or whether it is a question of IVO acting in a way that is not competitively neutral. This is not my picture, and I understand that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm does not persist in it either, because IVO's review is about the conditions for private performers to get permission to carry out their activities and the regulations that they will then have to comply with. It is important that all actors in welfare – it applies to everyone who works with and meets people who are extradited in different ways and in need of society's care – are really serious and have the potential to carry out good activities in the area where they want to operate. It is IVO's mission, not to make a valuation of whether it is a private operator. It feels important to round off by saying that it is clear that it is important that it is competitive neutrality. When you say care on equal terms, you probably think more often about the patient and the patient, who, regardless of their circumstances, should have the opportunity to receive equal care. But private actors are a large part of care and not least home care and care for the elderly, so it is clear that it is activities that should work. However, it is Umeå Municipality that sets the conditions for its LOV system.
i-4b7e480337da633c-342	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby has asked me how I view the application of a harm reduction perspective to tobacco, which could, for example, distinguish tobacco smoking from non-smoking tobacco products in terms of restrictions and taxation. The overall objective of the government's tobacco policy is to reduce all tobacco use, including non-smoking tobacco products such as snuff, and to prevent minors from using tobacco. The target was adopted by Parliament in 2011 and has since been set in the Government's revised strategy for alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy 2016 – 2020, the so-called ANDT strategy. Smoking is one of the main preventive risk factors for disease and premature death. Exposure to other people's tobacco smoke also adversely affects their health. The government wants to see a continued reduction in tobacco use where smoking should be strongly reduced and no longer a dominant public health problem. Preventive work also creates conditions for equal health. The government has therefore supported the goal of a smoke-free Sweden in 2025. Sniffing also increases the risk of ill health and disease. There is sufficient knowledge of the damaging effects of snus to discourage snus, and the health risks of snus cannot be dismissed by the fact that smoking is even more dangerous. The harmful effects of snus are often compared with those of smoking, but such a comparison is difficult because few products or behaviours are as harmful as smoking. The best thing for health is not going from smoking to using other tobacco but going from smoking to not using tobacco at all. As far as other products, with and without tobacco, are concerned, which are heated and vaporised, we do not yet know what health effects they have. For example, we do not know what e-cigarettes contain and how these substances affect health. WHO, the World Health Organisation, has noted that although the level of risk is not clear, e-cigarettes are undoubtedly harmful. Therefore, a precautionary principle should be applied and e-cigarettes regulated as harmful products. By including e-cigarettes and other products that correspond to smoking in the smoking ban, there are also no border problems between products that contain tobacco and products that do not. The extension of the smoking ban to more public places outdoors and more products was an important measure to reduce social exposure and denormalise smoking. According to the WHO, young people are particularly sensitive to visual signals and social standards. As e-cigarettes imitate smoking behaviour, it is important that the smoking ban also includes e-cigarettes. The use of tobacco other than by smoking or inhalation, such as snuffing, falls outside the smoking ban. The WHO points to price and tax measures as effective instruments for tobacco prevention. Both snus and e-cigarettes are taxed on the basis that they are harmful products, but the tax is clearly lower compared to cigarettes and smoking tobacco because, based on current knowledge, they are assumed to be less harmful than smoking. The Government's ANDT strategy expires in 2020. Work on developing a renewed strategy will continue throughout the year. Before the government formulates a new strategy, it is important to gather knowledge and experience from the current ANDT strategy. By 1 May at the latest, the Public Health Authority shall submit a comprehensive report. It will provide an important basis for work on a renewed trategi. There is also a continuous dialogue with the relevant authorities and organisations, in the form of hearings organised by the government during the spring. As work on the new ANDT strategy is still in its initial phase, its content and objectives should not be anticipated.
i-4b7e480337da633c-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's hard not to agree with most of the answers. If you have a bad habit, you should abolish it, and if you don't, you absolutely shouldn't get into a bad habit. As the Government itself says, the best thing for health is not to go from smoking to using other tobacco, but to go from smoking to not using tobacco at all. Of course that is the case, but many people today are stuck in a nicotine addiction and are unable to move from ordinary cigarettes to nothing and need something else. This is where the principle of injury reduction comes in. In my former country, Norway, damage reduction plays a more central role in politics and in discussions on the legislation on ANDT – not because the harm-reducing products are risk-free, as the Government itself points out, but because they are far less harmful than traditional tobacco products such as cigarettes. This puts people's actual health at the heart of the agenda. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it feels like we are more out to point the finger and say that behaviour is not good instead of taking our responsibility and ensuring that people's health actually improves. It should be reasonable to start from the conscious choices of individuals and the health risks they bring. The fact that individuals choose to use alternative tobacco products that are not tobacco smoking should be preferable from a public health perspective. In developing the new ANDT strategy for the period 2021 – 2025, an effective approach to reducing the harmful effects of tobacco in society should therefore be adopted. This means a policy of reducing the social and medical harm caused by tobacco and enabling smokers to either stop or switch to less harmful smoke-free tobacco products. Rather, the new law has put an obstacle in the way of equalizing what is really dangerous with what is less dangerous. Madam President, I would like I work a lot with energy policy, and we usually say that it is better to move from coal to gas than to keep the coal. With regard to tobacco legislation, the same approach should be adopted. The Government says that she does not want to anticipate the new ANDT strategy, but it is after all at this stage that we have the opportunity to influence the content. I hope that the Government is serious when she says that the Government wants to take in information and knowledge about how these products affect our health before it says that it refrains from including damage reduction in the legislation in order to avoid border-drawing problems. Because it is making it very easy for yourself. After all, it is the responsibility of Minister Hallengren to ensure that Swedes' health is improved. For the people who are trapped, it's better to go from coal to gas – or from really harmful cigarettes to what's less harmful.
i-4b7e480337da633c-359	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Cecilie Toftby for the question. There are many different aspects when discussing tobacco use and harmful smoking. It is impossible to understand how we could have the smoke policy we had 40 to 50 years ago. Parents smoked in the car while the children were sitting in the back seat, smoking indoors and there was not an office room in the whole country that was not inpyrat. This had to be accepted. It was smoked in restaurants, and the staff were exposed to passive smoking and actually as much smoke as a smoker. A lot has happened in this area, and we are down to 7% of everyday smokers. So it is not the case that we are unable to get people to stop smoking without the harm minimisation perspective. Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby does not mention snus, but I find it difficult to read something else. Please correct me if anything else is meant. It is not prohibited in Sweden to use snus, but there is an age limit. If there is a wish in the interpellier's question that the health service would recommend snus for damage minimisation, she will be happy to develop that idea a little. Tobacco-free products are problematic. Here, the industry is making considerable efforts to spread them to young people. Our work is primarily about what our ANDT policy and strategy should look like so that young people are not tempted to start smoking or snus. When it comes to those who have been heavy smokers throughout their lives and are starting to snort, there are no very many objections, but the policy is aimed not only at some people but at the whole population. Tobacco-free products are of concern. Just because it's not tobacco gives you the feeling that it's not dangerous, but the nicotine is still there. To taste with mint, strawberry and all it is is not about getting a big smoker to stop smoking but about attracting new groups, not smoking but to another addiction. Of course, we can discuss what will be included in the new ANDT strategy, but I cannot tell you what it will contain because the work is in a start-up phase. It is about evaluating the previous strategy and collecting what the Public Health Agency and other stakeholders want in the new strategy.
i-4b7e480337da633c-367	Madam President, I would like No, it wasn't just snuff I was talking about. As the legislation stands today, snuff plays in a completely different league than tobacco smoking. If I had been a snus, no one would have asked me to stop snusting because of what the law says. That's why it's probably harder to stop snusting than quit smoking. If you see it, it might be better to ban snus. But we would never advocate that, because we are not a prohibition party. Madam President, I would like I have still not received an answer from Minister Hallengren as to whether the damage reduction perspective will be clearer in the new ANDT strategy. We do not want young people to start smoking or snusting, and it is good that many people are able to quit completely. But many people can't do it, and there are products that are better and less harmful than ordinary cigarettes. I would therefore like to see the damage reduction perspective taken into account. Madam President, I would like The Government's comment that she assumes that it is snuff I am referring to in this debate shows that the Government should probably try to take on some of the new research and learn something about the new, less harmful, products that could replace ordinary cigarettes for those who are addicted. There's a lot going in the right direction. The Per Bolund Government just entered the Chamber, and I have discussed energy with him many times. He would certainly agree with me that gas is better than coal but that wind power is of course the best from a climate perspective. This can be transferred to the tobacco debate: it is better to go from something really bad to something less bad, even though the best thing is of course to abstain completely. I think we need to get the damage reduction perspective into the debate, because it also fills its place in the ANDT strategy.
i-4b7e480337da633c-373	Madam President, I would like I am not saying that this issue will not be discussed for the new strategy, but I cannot say where we land. I think, however, that most people do not think that because we have traditionally had quite a lot of discussion about whether snuff is better than smoking in Sweden. That is why I wanted to raise this question directly, both to clarify what Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby thinks and to make it clear to the audience that snus is also highly addictive. But as I said in my answer, it's hard to compare. Much is less dangerous because smoking is so deadly. I say it again: when we develop the ANDT strategy, we will turn over different stones and look at it. I thank you for the interpellation and for Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby's willingness and ambition to bring this issue forward. I'm not saying we don't see any possibilities. The final point in my reply was actually that I cannot go into what the strategy will contain now. We're in a start-up phase, so you can't say. But the input is warmly welcome.
i-4b7e480337da633c-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Hallengren. It feels like we have, in any case, made a small step further on the road to bringing in the injury reduction perspective. I think it is fun to sometimes get my old country Norway into the debate and that they actually do something that is good, apart from hitting Sweden in cross-country skiing. Again, to be a little serious here in the final stages: Smoking is harmful. We don't want it, but there is. For those who are firm, there must be better opportunities than already exist, and the government has the opportunity to bring the damage reduction perspective into its new strategy. I hope that this is done, and I look forward to seeing it.
i-4b7e480337da633c-380	Madam President, I would like It is always valuable to have interpellation debates that are responsive and where different perspectives can be taken into account. Drug policy is an area in which damage minimisation is starting to come in more and more since previous governments decided on, for example, syringe exchange and Naloxon, just to describe that is not something foreign. With regard to what forms we will have for this and what it will look like, I would like to conclude by saying to those who possibly listen to this debate that Sweden today has 7% who are daily smokers. It's an amazingly low figure, but we want to get even further down. Prohibition can also play a big role, Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby. Otherwise, we would never have been where we are today.
i-4b7e480337da633c-382	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I believe that the state has no role in ensuring that the housing shortage is solved in Sweden, what measures I and the government have taken to facilitate the purchase of a home for households, what I intend to take for concrete measures to increase the construction of small houses in Sweden, and how market rents, which are to be introduced under the January agreement, will make it easier for households with scarce financial resources to have a right to rent. Lars Beckman refers in his interpellation to an article in Svenska Dagbladet from February 18 this year. In this article, in commenting on a proposal that the state should own and operate a construction company, I state that housing construction is not a core task for the state. On this basis, Lars Beckman therefore asks whether I believe that the state has no role in solving the housing shortage. The answer to Lars Beckman's first question is that the government has a responsibility to address the housing shortage by, among other things, designing appropriate regulations, expanding state infrastructure and contributing to and facilitating the financing of housing construction, housing subsidies and through an economic policy that contributes to high employment and thus strengthened demand. In all these areas, the government has made efforts, and several investigations are under way that can be expected to lead to further action. As regards Lars Beckman's second question on measures to make it easier for households to buy a home, I refer to the debate on the same subject that I had with Larry Söder in this House on 17 January this year. As regards measures for increased building of small houses, the Government's priority for several years has been to contribute to the construction of many new dwellings and that they should be possible to demand from households with normal incomes. Boverket reported in a report 2015 that municipalities choose to focus the planning of land in central locations for multi-residential buildings at the expense of plans for small-scale buildings because it provides a higher degree of exploitation. In view of the lack of housing, I think it is wise for municipalities to plan in a way that provides many new housing. In the current situation, there are no plans for the government to influence the direction of municipal planning towards an increased building of small houses. The January contract provides for the introduction of free renting in the case of new construction. A study will be commissioned to develop proposals and highlight the consequences of the proposals. I see no reason to interfere with the investigation's work. Only when a concrete investigation proposal is in place can it be assessed what effects it will have on housing construction and the housing market and thus on the possibilities for different types of households to find a dwelling.
i-4b7e480337da633c-388	Madam President, I would like Gefle Dagblad today: a cross-brake in residential building – only 192 dwellings were completed in Gävle last year. The environmental party management in Gävle had planned to build 800 homes per year. It is, of course, a genuine failure. 19 February 2020: a crisis meeting today on the collapse of housing production. In the same article, you can read that the background is in the new production of housing. Since peak 2017, the number of construction starts in the country has decreased by 27 per cent and by over 50 per cent in Stockholm. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Reality stands in stark contrast to the words of the Minister of Housing. It is flouting that the Minister shows my question about the measures to be taken to buy a home, when he refers to an interpellation debate that was held here in this House on 17 January. It is not certain that those who see this interpellation debate have seen that interpellation debate. We know that it is a government core business, for example, to cut off land at Lantmäteriet. That's where we're talking about year-long lines. We also know that Lantmäteriet has said that the next three years will not shorten their cut-off times at all. We know that the government has imposed tough amortisation requirements, and we know that the government has imposed high cash requirements. Thus, we know why construction in Sweden is decreasing by 27 per cent and why construction is reduced by half in Stockholm. But I would like to give the Minister for Housing another opportunity to tell you what concrete measures the government is taking to reverse developments. And what was the result of the crisis meeting on the collapse of housing production that the government had with the industry on 19 February?
i-4b7e480337da633c-393	Madam President, I would like I represent Gothenburg, one of the cities where it is most difficult for young people to get housing. That is why I wanted to take this opportunity to enter this interpellation debate. The issues raised by my colleague Lars Beckman are highly relevant: What responsibility does the Minister of Housing consider to have to address the housing crisis in Sweden? And what concrete measures is the Government prepared to take to ensure that more households who want to own their homes are also given the opportunity to do so? Last Friday I met an innovative and fast growing company in biotech that quickly got into the difficulty of finding accommodation when they talked about the problems of recruiting. The very companies we want in a competitive economy. Regardless of who you talk to in Gothenburg, everyone testifies to the same problem: the difficulty of finding housing, even when you have a solid, stable income and whether you want to rent or own your home. The waiting period for an apartment in Gothenburg's commons is at least five years, in the central city up to nine years. Equally high are the barriers to buying your home. Let me illustrate by an example, Madam President. SBAB has mapped how much is required in salary to buy a 30 square meter apartment for average price and with average fee, with 15 per cent in cash, in 20 Swedish municipalities and at the same time clear amortisation requirements, interest and fee and have money left for living expenses. In Gothenburg, a salary of 33 000 SEK is required. At the same time, average earnings between the ages of 25 and 29 are barely 20 000 SEK for men and over 16 500 SEK for women. So the average income is about half of what it takes to get a loan for a one of 30 square meters – one, Madam President! What responsibility does the Minister consider to be, and what concrete measures is he prepared to take? So far, the Minister has not considered himself to be particularly responsible, but, above all, he has referred to the housing responsibility of municipalities. It is true that municipalities have a responsibility to ensure that housing is built. That's why the Alliance has also increased housing construction in Gothenburg from about 2,500 to about 4,500 last year after we took over – this at the same time as housing construction in the country is decreasing. But the state, the government and hence the Minister for Housing are responsible for the functioning of the housing market. Today, the housing market is not working. The consequences are seen in the form of long queue periods for rentals, barriers through credit restrictions for those who want to buy a dwelling and lock-in effects in the form of moving taxes for those who own a dwelling but want to move. And those who suffer the consequences include young and well-educated Gothenburgers, those who should have the easiest access to housing. What concrete measures does the Government intend to take? The January agreement includes market rents on newly built dwellings. But even if the Government wants to wait for the impact assessment, the JÖK parties, when they signed the agreement, must have had an idea of how this will affect the development of rents? How does the Government believe that the rents will develop in new construction after the Minister has completed his reform?
i-4b7e480337da633c-402	Madam President, I would like Over the past 15 years, the Stockholm region has grown by 30 000 to 40 000 inhabitants annually. For the first time in 15 years, we see that the whole market and growth have slowed down. Families with children flee the Stockholm region to buy cheaper housing that is not so close to the City of Stockholm. Why is this happening? Because the mortgage ceiling is far too low. You should be allowed to borrow at least 90% of the cost of the dwelling, but that is not possible today. This has been regulated from Bolund to 80 percent. The amortisation requirement is far too high. It should be a business between borrower and creditor how much should be amortised and not a matter for the government and parliament. Madam President, I would like When will the mortgage ceiling be raised? What steps will the government take to bring about a dysfunctional housing policy that is hitting the metropolitan regions in particular? When will the government do something about the 22 per cent removal tax, which means that older people who have lived in a villa all their lives – the children are outflipped and have acquired their own accommodation – are still sitting instead of selling their villa and perhaps buying a smaller apartment to get the removal chains going? When will Minister Bolund address this issue, and when will the Government take steps to get order and legal certainty in Lantmäteriet?
i-4b7e480337da633c-405	Madam President, I would like Sometimes in debates, a little humility is dressy. It is difficult to interpret the three gentlemen whom we have now heard as having made any mistakes when they were able to govern housing policy themselves. It seems that with the intensity and vigour shown by these gentlemen, when housing policy was governed for eight years, many reforms would have been carried out that led to a major activity in the housing market. We can see that this was not the case. It's worth reminding the gentlemen of. We can see that we now have a building at levels far above what was ever the case in the eight years that the Moderates led the government work. We now have a building that is balanced up to about 50 000 new homes per year. It is almost double the pace of construction compared to what was in force during the eight years of the Alliance in power when it decided on housing policy. We can also note that in every year as there has been a red-green government and a green housing minister, more has been built than in any single year when the Alliance ruled housing policy and when the Moderates led the government work. I think that this should be done in a way that shows a certain degree of humility. We have a building at historically very high levels. That's not what the gentlemen are pretending about, because it doesn't fit their history description. When we hear these calls for free lending – away with all restrictions, open dampers and let everyone borrow as much as possible – it is worth recalling that debt is a risk. Those who participated in the US loan crisis in 2007-2008 should be aware that the policies that were then pursued, which in principle provided the opportunity for anyone to take out loans, whether or not they could be paid, led to very difficult consequences. It led to severe consequences at national level with a severe financial crisis, but it also led to severe consequences for those who had taken out the loans, who could not pay them, who were evicted from their properties and who were still in debt but were without housing. The same situation occurred in Sweden in the 1990s during the Swedish financial crisis. Today there are still people in Sweden – young people who at the time took loans, house prices dived and they had to sell their properties – who still have these debts. It also requires a degree of humility in this matter. The confident demands that all restrictions should be removed and that this would result in no problems for anyone to enter the housing market, I think, are statements that do not take into account the vulnerability that people have economically and also the risks that this poses to a country's economy. It is worth recalling that we have received warnings from the International Monetary Fund, from the OECD, from the European Commission and from all the state authorities responsible for monitoring the economic development of Sweden. High indebtedness carries risks for the Swedish economy. Through the measures taken by the government, we now have a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden. This means that we actually have increased security in the Swedish economy but also in the household economy. We build up a resistance that allows us to withstand interference. This means that we can also have a building that is balanced over time instead of seeing the very strong fluctuations that have been on the housing market in previous years. It is also worth recalling that what makes it most difficult for young people, for example, to gain entry into the housing market is if we get sleazy housing prices, where prices constantly go higher and higher but income only rises at the rate that the economy is growing. In the years that we had an alliance-led government, house prices ran off by 10 – 15 per cent a year. Now we have a balanced price trend with an increase of about 3% over the last twelve-month period. This allows people to enter the housing market.
i-4b7e480337da633c-416	Madam President, I would like We heard an engaged intervention from the Minister for Housing, who talked about anything other than the simple questions I asked. That's what happens when you don't have any politics. I'll ask the questions again. The government held a crisis meeting with the construction industry on 19 February about the collapse of housing production. The background to the crisis meeting was according to Today's industry that the number of construction starts in the country has decreased by 27 per cent since 2017, and they have decreased by 50 per cent in Stockholm. I think that anyone seeking housing deserves an answer. Madam President, I would like I have also noted that representatives of the Green Party have said about the migration crisis that might open the borders and receive many. This is an even greater reason for a housing minister to reflect on where those who came to Sweden in 2015 will live and, if we now open the borders as the Green Party wants, where those who will in that case will live. Madam President, I would like The simple questions that the Minister for Housing can answer are, then, what housing policy the government has and what it intends to do to get the construction going again.
i-4b7e480337da633c-420	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer I received before the stop! The three O's – Lars Orup, Åke Ortmark and Gustaf Olivecrona – asked in 1966 Tage Erlander what advice he had to give a young couple who were about to start a family and lack a place to live. Tage Erlander couldn't answer. When the Government itself received this question in the media as a newly-saved Minister for Housing, he did not want to answer. Instead, he referred to the fact that he had no wand. I also believe that the Government has no magic wand, Madam President. But he has government power. And as Minister of Housing, he is the one who can put forward concrete proposals to get the functioning of the housing market going. When I talk to young Gothenburgers who cannot find their own home, I usually say that we Moderates want to simplify building rules, reduce credit restrictions and reform rental rules. Only then can we have a functioning housing market. What is the Government's response to the same young Gothenburgers? What are his concrete measures, Madam President? I ask again: why do we include new production market rents as the flagship of housing policy reforms if we do not know what the consequences are? I would like to thank the Government for the debate.
i-4b7e480337da633c-426	Madam President, I would like As usual, there was not much response we received from Minister Bolund. The higher pace of construction can be thanked by the Minister for M-controlled municipalities in the Stockholm region. They have developed a lot of detailed plans, even though the county administrative board brakes and tangles. This has made it possible for more housing construction. In my municipality of Norrtälje, it is still fully built even if it is located on the outskirts of Stockholm County. As far as debt is concerned, I share the view of the Government that one must be restrictive. But that does not mean that you have to go in and direct in detail. The banks do not want to lose money, and the banks want security when they lend. It is, therefore, an issue that I think the market, not this House and Parliament, should deal with to a greater extent. The higher house prices and the fact that they have gone up by 15 per cent are due to a market economy – supply and demand. It is no secret that many have previously gone to the big cities. Now we see that the trend is changing. The families with children are fleeing from the Stockholm region, and for the first time in 15 – 20 years we have virtually zero growth on the inhabitants of the region. My last question to the Government is: Does the Government want to slow down the Stockholm Stock Exchange when it goes up? Last year it went up 30%.
i-4b7e480337da633c-430	Madam President, I would like If you think that the stock market is the same as the housing market, you obviously have not been without a dwelling. No one can live in a stock, but you need a dwelling to live in. It is clear that for a young person who sees prices skyrocket by 15 per cent per year, it is not easy to see an entrance to the housing market. If, on the other hand, prices are stable, as they are now, the possibilities are much greater. I can reassure the gentlemen, who are obviously very committed to housing policy, that we now have a more active housing policy than we have had in many decades. We no longer have the hand-off policy that marked the eight years of moderate government. They had no political ambition whatsoever to influence, but wanted to let the market decide the entire housing supply entirely on its own. This led to this situation. It was built far too little for far too long. This led to a large deficit in housing. Now we have a completely different situation. More is being built than it has been in decades. We have a housing building at 50,000 a year. It is almost double the pace of construction compared to every year under the moderate-led government. We already have many tools in place in the January agreement. We have said that we should reform the rental model. We have also said that we should remove the removal tax by abolishing interest on the amount of the deferral. This may increase mobility in the housing market. We are making extensive regulatory changes. We now have a solid programme to go forward with both simplifying and shortening the planning process and making construction faster and cheaper. We've redoed the investment aid for rentals. It is the investment aid that the Moderates in their budget only drew a line and took away altogether. This led to the disappearance of all the thousands of homes that, if the system had been allowed to operate, had now been on the market. This, of course, makes it difficult for all people who need a home and who need all the rental apartments with reasonable rents that would have come onto the market. But through the irresponsible behaviour of the Moderates, when a budget was pushed through even though they did not have government responsibility, that reform was made impossible. This has led to a large gap and thorn in rental apartments. We've got 35,000 rental apartments out this far. With a new investment aid, tens of thousands of new homes will be available with a reasonable rent level. These are homes for which there is a great need. The January Contracting Parties have also said that we are going to make a comprehensive tax reform. In particular, improving the functioning of the housing market will provide guidance there. We have also established support for village communities. It is a form of construction that in other EU countries, such as Germany, accounts for a large part of the construction. There are now economic conditions for them to operate. More associations can carry out construction that suits the needs. We therefore have an active housing policy, as opposed to the passive policy which for a long time has characterised not least bourgeois housing policy and which has led to the market failure with which we are currently sitting. The need for housing is much greater than the supply. I would like those gentlemen who have a high voice in this debate to be able to show some sort of responsibility for the failure which we can nevertheless note that the eight years of moderated policy were achieved. We will have to continue working, not least to ensure that housing that meets the needs of the market, that is, for people who do not have the thickest wallets. If it was also the construction call to which Lars Beckman referred a little disdainfully. Together with construction companies, industry organisations and trade unions, we were able to sit around a table to see how we can get increased construction but also a building that fits the needs that exist. I can be pleased with Lars Beckman that there was a strong perception that the market is turning upwards, that there are good conditions for building more and a strong need to build in a different way than was done during eight years with a moderate government.
i-4b7e480337da633c-440	Madam President, I would like The active housing policy of the Minister for Housing has thus led to a 50 per cent mark in the construction of Stockholm. As my colleague Kjell Jansson noted, the moving laser has now turned from Stockholm. Families with children cannot live in Stockholm because they cannot find accommodation. The active housing policy claimed by the Minister for Housing has thus reduced construction in Sweden by 27 per cent. Madam President, I would like It would probably be better if the Minister for Housing became even more passive instead of trying to be active, so that the construction could possibly turn around in Sweden.
i-4b7e480337da633c-442	Madam President, I would like Let us note that the Moderates like to have a high tone in the housing debate. We can also say that, on the other hand, we do not deliver when we are able to do things on our own. Instead, you stand hands-on and think that you have no responsibility but that the market should manage housing policy on its own. We can now see the effect of this: far too low construction and construction that are not suitable for the needs that exist. Today, we see housing created during the planning initiated by the bourgeois government entering the market in Stockholm. The price situation is such that there is no demand. We have empty apartments in Stockholm because the prices are too high, while there is an acute housing shortage. We do not need to see that policy again. It is easy to note that Moderate housing policy works, but only when you are in opposition. When you're in the majority, you can't deliver the apartments you need.
i-4b7e480337da633c-445	Madam President, I would like Jessica Thunander has asked me how I intend to work towards increasing the accessibility of public transport and transport planning in general for socio-economically weak groups and contributing to a socially sustainable transport system, and whether I intend to promote the use of social impact assessments and health impact assessments in the planning of infrastructure and public transport. For me and the government, it is important that the whole of Sweden is given good opportunities to grow and develop. A starting point for the government's transport policy is, of course, the overall transport policy objective of ensuring a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The transport system must be equal and contribute to increased health. According to the Public Transport Act, it is the region and municipalities within a county that are jointly responsible for regional public transport. The responsibility lies in defining the needs and objectives of regional public transport as well as in deciding on transport and pricing. In May 2018, the Government decided on a new national traffic cross-border plan for transport infrastructure for the period 2018 – 2029. It is an investment of over SEK 700 billion in Swedish infrastructure, which enables large investments throughout the country, in new construction, but also in renovation and maintenance of existing infrastructure. It also means the greatest railway effort in modern times. The Government's task for Trafikverket to develop a proposal for a national plan included a task to report what social sustainability means in terms of transport infrastructure and how social sustainability can be integrated into transport planning. The Finnish Transport Agency has then continued to carry out development work in order to be able to respond even more clearly to this sustainability aspect. Among other things, research on transport planning is funded from a social perspective and methodological development of planning documents that capture social dimensions of accessibility. The state also has the opportunity to promote public transport, and the government has taken several initiatives in this area. The national plan contributes through investments in, for example, railways and bus lanes, and municipalities can seek state co-financing for public transport infrastructure through urban planning agreements and through a public co-financing scheme for certain regional public transport facilities. Furthermore, the Government's electricity bus premium allows for a certain contribution to the acquisition of electrically powered buses. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the work for greater social sustainability is very important, not least in the transport system.
i-4b7e480337da633c-452	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to make it clear that my question in no part was about how much the government spends on infrastructure in its budget. To clarify, Madam President, I asked what the government intends to do about transport poverty and the health and impact assessment of infrastructure projects, not asphalt and rail. Madam President, I would like Sweden is the country within the OECD where inequality has increased most since the mid-80s. We are getting more and more people living in financial vulnerability while some are getting richer. At the same time, public transport prices have risen four times as much as for other goods and services since 1995. Among other things – there are of course several other factors that contribute to transport poverty – excluding parts of the population, often those most in need of public transport. Accessibility of public transport is essential for the social inclusion and participation of many people, particularly in socially vulnerable areas where the majority cannot afford to have a car and many do not have a driving licence. Moving in a way other than walking or cycling is becoming a privilege for those with good finances. Making public transport unreasonably expensive is another way to lock up those who cannot afford to have a car and restrict their freedom of movement. The discount schemes that exist are usually not available to those with low incomes, who often travel with more expensive tickets than the rest of the population. For example, monthly cards are often not possible to buy for those on low incomes because they are not able to pay so much money at once. Poor people often refrain from travelling because they cannot afford it, which is another example of how social vulnerability also means less transport opportunities and the risk of exclusion from society. It is expensive to be poor, Madam President. In addition, the planning of public transport is usually based on a standard of day commuters and on something called strong strings, which benefits a working middle class. Less attention is paid to those working evenings, nights and weekends, and to those working in remote workplaces. Workplace areas usually populated by low-skilled people and low car and driving licences are often poorly equipped with public transport. Even in big cities, this can provide completely unreasonable commuting times for people who are completely dependent on public transport for their transport. Nor is it taken into account how the benefits of public transport spending are distributed among different population groups. Socio-economic sustainability and social inclusion are deprioritised, leading to inequalities that risk increasing the gaps between weak and strong socio-economic groups. Disadvantaged persons also have no influence or representation in the planning processes. You can do as the Minister did and refer to appropriations for railways, appropriations which, in all cases, are larger than before, but in our view, are not sufficient. Or you can do, for example, as the Left Party has done in its budget, where we have general state aid for regional public transport authorities of 2 billion a year to make public transport more accessible and cheaper. There are, of course, other measures that need to be taken, but additional funds are a start. So, Madam President, I repeat my question in the hope of actually getting an answer: how does the Minister intend to work towards increasing access to public transport and transport planning for economically weak groups and contributing to a socially sustainable transport system?
i-4b7e480337da633c-460	Madam President, I would like In such an important debate on transport poverty, which Jessica Thunander raises, it is difficult not to get involved and be involved. That is precisely what this debate is about: that there are different conditions for people in this country. Just as Jessica Thunander mentioned, the price of travelling collectively in Sweden has increased sharply. A new compilation came just a few weeks ago pointing out that the price of travelling collectively had increased by 43 percent over the past ten years. This is several times more than the general price increase in Sweden. The cut price for a monthly public transport card is SEK 1,400. Single tickets are often very expensive. 1 400 crowns can be an affordable sum for the director, but there is a lot of money for the assistant or preschool teacher, especially if you also have one, two or three children at home that you also have to pay public transport for. Then there will simply be a lot of money. I think Jessica Thunander is raising a very important issue. This is not just a question of the need to invest more in the development of public transport, as the Minister raises in his reply. It is quite right that we need to invest more, overall, in, for example, buying in a sustainable bus fleet or in providing subsidies so that our regions can invest in it, as well as in investing more in the railways and so on. But what Jessica Thunander mentioned is that although public transport is subservient to our municipalities and regions, we have the opportunity at national level to make public transport cheaper and more accessible to larger groups in society. We can simply be involved in part-financing the operation of public transport. We in the Left Party also did so, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, during the previous term of office 2014– 2018, when, among other things, we got through free public transport for children and young people. We could do this by allocating funds from the government and parliament through the national budget. It would be interesting to know from the Minister not only what investments are under way but also whether the government has a policy to make public transport cheaper and more accessible to more groups in society. Does the government have a plan to finance part of the operation of public transport in our regions?
i-4b7e480337da633c-466	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm and especially Jessica Thunander, for a very important interpellation and important questions! There is no doubt that the transport sector is facing quite a major change, and much of the investment we are making and the support we are developing rightly goes – I know you agree with this – to switch the transport sector to meet the climate challenge. This is sometimes also one of the reasons why ticket prices are increasing in public transport. It invests in buses that run electrically or with biogas, or in other ways it increases the conditions for public transport. And that's good. It's necessary. It's getting crowded in the streets of the big cities. We need to ensure that public transport is expanded and smarter solutions and better mobility are found. Of course there are different ways to go there. What I highlighted in the answer and which has been important for this government and for the government during the previous term of office is that we also think in terms of planning about increased mobility for broad social groups. I have said in some context that we have to stop planning infrastructure from men and cars and have at some point had a little bark for it. But seriously, we need to think about another type of mobility in the future, both to meet the climate challenge and to find smarter ways to transport us. The major investments we actually make are perhaps one of the most important efforts. That is why – with all due respect to Jessica Thunander – I choose in the interpellation response to highlight the figure of 700 billion. The investments we make are also a prerequisite for increasing the opportunities for more collective travel and more climate-smart travel. My predecessor Anna Johansson was the first to ensure that we included directives on social issues, social sustainability and consequences for social cohesion in our assignments to the Finnish Transport Agency for transport planning and national plans. This was probably so important when infrastructure has previously been seen as separate from other community planning. We also chose to bring the housing issue into infrastructure planning. It was also the first time that housing issues and conditions for housing construction were included in the national plan. This means that we now have better conditions to broaden our perspectives to include housing, community building and accessibility for broad groups of society. That discussion is important. I welcome and think it is excellent that Jessica Thunander and Jens Holm also highlighted this, because it is needed in this debate. On the other hand, I am careful to emphasise the division of responsibilities. It is certainly true, as Jens Holm says, that during the last parliamentary term we made a special effort to stimulate municipalities and regions to have free public transport for young people during the summer. It was a popular and good effort. If there are economic conditions, I think that a great many people would like to do this in the future too. Let us see how such things are tested in the budget work ahead. But we must not deprive the regions of their responsibility for pricing and tickets. There are great differences here depending on who has power and influence in the regions. Let it become an important issue in the regions what effort is being made to promote public transport, because it gives broad groups greater mobility opportunities and is thus also a socio-economic equalising factor, plus that it relieves road and other infrastructure. So the focus is quite right. It is clear that, with the climate change that we are facing, we in the ongoing building of society should ensure that we do not reproduce past generations' mistakes but build smarter mobility and mobility that gives more groups broader opportunities to come to a larger and growing labour market.
i-4b7e480337da633c-476	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think we can agree on a lot. But let me start with this with investments in public transport. They're great. They're needed. We need to reset traffic for the sake of the climate. But then we come to this with climate justice: who is paying? Prices go up sharply, and it is too expensive for many people. The need to take public transport to the health centre can be a financial disaster, especially for a single parent who should bring his child and go back and forth. It can determine whether you can eat or not on the last weekend of the month. Yes, please invest in public transport, but do not let it affect those who have no funds. This also means that we exclude parts of the population from mobility, because it is too expensive. Now this is not the only problem – accessibility is also a problem when planning for strong paths, for example. I know places where it is simply difficult to get to the nearest stop, even in big cities. An example could be Angered in Gothenburg. There the buses rarely go in the evening, and that is an unpleasant way to walk, especially if you are a woman alone. Of course, accessibility issues of this kind are also very important. Ticketing systems can be far too difficult for many to use, and more. I fully agree that we should not plan the infrastructure for men with cars. That idea is very good, and I hope the government will stick to it. As regards the conditions for housing construction, I fully agree that when granting permits for housing construction, it should be possible, for example, to include requirements for mobility and public transport. That is not the case today. I look forward to those changes. I simply do not agree that public transport is being made available to the broad groups. In the planning documents available in several regions, the objective is regional enlargement and economic growth. All this is great. But there will be a conflict of objectives between it and social sustainability and the social groups. You go in to get the car drivers to go collectively. You should do the same, but then you are happy to downgrade the socially vulnerable groups. My question is: how do we achieve climate justice? How do we ensure that the necessary investments and changes in public transport do not affect those who actually have very little money and who are at risk of being excluded from mobility?
i-4b7e480337da633c-485	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that Trafikverket has been commissioned to report social sustainability in transport planning, but it is not just a matter of presenting social sustainability. It's about what's going on on the ground. Will our transport system be more or less socially sustainable? Will it be more fair or not? Given the sharp increases in prices, I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that our transport system has become fairer in recent years? If not, I wonder: Is there anything the government can do? Both I and Jessica Thunander have mentioned the possibility of going in and financing part of public transport so that it becomes cheaper and more accessible to larger groups in society. I fully agree that we should not plan future infrastructure based on men and cars, but I note that unfortunately the government is still in such thinking. It continues with the Stockholm bypass, Sweden's largest motorway project. Cross-connection Södertörn is a motorway project that has not yet started, but which Tomas Eneroth and the Government have put into the national infrastructure plan. It will cost more than $10 billion. It is dismissed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which believes that it leads to increased emissions and that it binds us to a non-sustainable transport dependency. So there are things here that the government can and must re-evaluate. I do not see that the government has done so yet, but the possibility of revising the national infrastructure plan exists. I hope the Minister is serious about what he says.
i-4b7e480337da633c-489	Madam President, I would like The Left Party was involved in the development of the current infrastructure plan and supported it when we adopted it. But of course there will be new infrastructure plans and revisions of new national plans in the future. Let us have a good discussion about what investments should be made then! It is important what investments we make. Here, I think we need to be aware that the level of ambition of infrastructure investment is an important factor, because that is something we jointly fund. Large parts of what is essential, for example, for public transport in big cities are also jointly funded, either through national plans or through the agreements we have made with the metropolitan regions. We are then state-owned, from all over the country, with and fund some of the public transport investments made in the big cities. I originally come from Kosta, in the middle of Småland. 800 people live there. There is not much investment in public transport, but in the region we are building better conditions for all parts of the county to have better opportunities to reach a larger labour market. Similarly, we in the government support this with the investments we are now making in infrastructure. I fully agree and believe that this is crucial in the coming years. We are facing a climate change change, not least in the transport system. It is a question of far-reaching electrification, streamlining the transport system and introducing bioenergy to a greater extent. If we are to get a commitment behind this, that journey must be made possible throughout the country. It's about investments we make. I have mentioned earlier in this House the West Dalsbanan in Malungsfors as a good example of the fact that it is not just in cities or in dense areas that we are investing in infrastructure. It's done all over the country. Everyone has to be on that journey. But it is important for the interpellant and for the Left Party to know that there are no conditions for public transport in all places. In some places, the car is the only alternative, and in places in northern Sweden, aviation is sometimes crucial to having access to other parts of Sweden or to the export market. We must have an understanding of this if we are to be committed to the transition we are facing in the transport sector. We must meet the climate requirements, and we must do so in a way that allows people to join in this. And we must do so in a way that does not affect socio-economically vulnerable groups. On the contrary, we shall simplify and facilitate that journey. It's a work we're going to do together. There are, of course, the documents that the Finnish Transport Administration produces very important. Not least because of this, my predecessor, Trafikverket, gave the commission to look at social sustainability. And health is included in the transport policy objectives. Similarly, it is, of course, important that the debate on the starting points for future revision of national plans should not, as I said earlier, reproduce the mistakes of previous generations. Here, of course, national responsibility is important, and we take it. This is an increased level of ambition, not least with the historic investments that we are now making on infrastructure. But it is also important for the regions to shoulder their responsibilities – it is regions that actually charge public transport and which to varying degrees co-finance tickets for groups in metropolitan areas or in other parts of the country. It is a debate that must also be held at regional level. Do not let the regions get away from that responsibility by the state remedying this! Make sure that the regions also take responsibility for the tax rights they have! It is about making good investments in public transport, because it is important for the climate, for jobs and for justice.
i-4b7e480337da633c-499	Madam President, I would like To begin with, I will say: No, we are not behind the whole infrastructure plan. We did exercise in connection with that letter, including about Södertörn, which we do not think should be built. I repeat: investment is great, but it is still a fact that many people are forced to opt out of public transport because they cannot afford it. It's too expensive. It costs too much. I'm gonna make a little personal note. Before I started in Parliament, I had a fairly low salary. The first time I was in Stockholm it burned every time I had to take the subway. It was a little anxiety, but then I still knew there would be a little more money coming in, so it worked. It is perhaps difficult to understand how much money is involved, how much money 75 crowns actually is. This with the countryside and the fact that there cannot be public transport everywhere, I fully agree. We're discussing that elsewhere. Today's question was about big cities and access to public transport for everyone in the big cities. This applies, among other things, to travel times. There are those who get to travel well over an hour even in Stockholm when they commute, and they may not always arrive. Yes, it's about regional level. But we also know that welfare is on our knees. There is a conflict between health care and public transport. We also need to have a discussion there. How do we solve this? There are all sorts of reasons, and now my speaking time is over.
i-4b7e480337da633c-504	Madam President, I would like I think this is a good and important discussion. But it is also important for it to be taken at regional level, because it is essentially a matter of priorities. The regions are responsible for public transport, and there are examples of regions which could do much more but which, for political reasons, choose not to give priority to public transport efforts. I believe that the debate that we are having in this House today also needs to be held in all the regional assemblies. For whom do we create accessibility and how? At a national level, we also regulate the conditions for this, partly through legislation and by increasing the conditions for new types of mobility – something that should not be underestimated, especially in metropolitan areas – and partly through the jointly funded infrastructure investments that we do. We should be proud that we together make it easier for public transport that is socially, economically and ecologically sustainable, not least in the big cities. More like consumer information, I would like to take this opportunity to say that there is currently an investigation into a national ticketing system. Since the ticket issues for which the regions are responsible nevertheless come up in the debate, it may be important to know that the mission that was part of the January agreement, to design a national ticketing system, is approaching the end of the study for a report. It is also an interesting discussion, because properly designed it can also increase accessibility for travellers beyond regional borders. It will be incredibly important because the labour market regions are growing. Then, through investments but also through smart, common ticketing systems, we must also improve the conditions for being able to get to work. Thank you for a good discussion!
i-4b7e480337da633c-510	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me two questions about Arlanda and the future of aviation. In January 2017, the Government presented A Swedish Aviation Strategy – for the role of aviation in the transport system of the future. The Aviation Strategy states, among other things, that a Arlanda Council in dialogue and collaboration will develop proposals and a roadmap for Arlanda and that the environmental and climate impact of aviation will be reduced. The Arlanda Council has been an advisory body to the Government and has in its work continuously provided advice and recommendations to the Government regarding the development of Arlanda Airport. The Council's work has been completed since 31 March 2019. The government's handling of the issue is not clear. The prerequisites of aviation are a matter that is well-known in several places. Sweden is a sparsely populated country with long distances. This means that aviation plays an important role in the transport system in terms of long-distance travel and transport. At the same time, aviation has a significant environmental and climate impact to reduce. Flying, like other modes of transport, will contribute to Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-4b7e480337da633c-514	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his answer. I'll be polite and nice and do that, even if I haven't really received any answers to my questions. Just as the Government says, Sweden is a country with great distances. We are on the outskirts of Europe, and without aviation it is difficult to get to other countries and between cities in Sweden. I will visit Kiruna myself at the end of this month and first looked at the possibility of taking the train. However, it turned out to take 17 hours in each direction. Then the flight became an obvious choice, both because of the time and because of the cost. The government is still advocating high-speed trains, but it really only helps us who live in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. In many parts of Sweden, aviation is the only possible means of transport for longer journeys. Now in Coronatimes, it may not be appropriate to talk about the benefits of international exchange, but in the long run it is important, and then aviation is important for Sweden. The benefits of aviation are many, but the major challenge is to ensure that aviation emissions are reduced. There are many good initiatives, but there, of course, more needs to be done both at European and global level. The reason for my questions about aviation is, among other things, that Arlanda has lost several long lines. In two years, eleven long lines have disappeared from Arlanda. Arlanda prepared for entry control to the USA, but the lid has been put on. The airline tax introduced by the government is a tax on passengers and not on emissions, really. There is a great deal of uncertainty about what the government really wants with aviation. I asked two questions in my interpellation and I can see that I did not get an answer to any of them. I will try again: Does the Minister intend to present the conclusions of the Arlanda Council? What reforms does the Minister intend to present in the coming period to strengthen aviation conditions and competitiveness?
i-4b7e480337da633c-519	Madam President, I would like I think I answered the questions. I say that the government is currently preparing the work of the Arlanda Council. It has been important advice for the process that is going on about how we will strengthen and develop aviation in Sweden, not least when it comes to managing the climate transition. It was not that long ago that we from the government gave a mission to investigate the conditions and what requirements will be made when the flight is electrified. An exciting development is taking place here, where the aviation industry itself takes a great responsibility for the conversion of aviation together with the industrial actors that exist in Sweden and who now sees the benefits, the opportunity and the necessity for the aircraft to change. I sometimes use the expression that Sweden should be a permanent world exhibition to show that it can be changed, and I think it is possible also in the field of aviation. Here we have Maria Wetterstrand's investigation, which proposes how we increase the biofuel mix to aviation. Here we have an ongoing stronger industrial development for electric aircraft. I believe that it will be crucial for people's confidence and propensity to choose flights in the future. If we are to understand the rather dramatic reduction that has taken place in air travel, not least in terms of domestic aviation, it should not be related to a flight tax of SEK 61 per ticket but to people's willingness to reduce their climate impact. There, the conversion of aviation will be necessary, as the flight is needed for a country like Sweden that needs to have good communications out on the world's export markets. We are a small, export-dependent industrial country and really need a flight that can get us out on the markets. But it's supposed to be sustainable. It is also important for a country that should stick together. The consequences of Nexchet's bankruptcy were that five smaller municipalities in the country, including Arvidsjaur, Gällivare and Vilhelmina, were completely unaired. That's why we need to make sure that aviation is a clear alternative, but it's going to change. This work is, of course, ongoing in the Government Office, and we are gradually also laying down a number of tasks. The last thing I mention here is about the electric flight. Nevertheless, I am puzzled when I hear Maria Stockhaus, who is on the Committee on Transport, say that high-speed trains are indeed just something for Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Seriously: Efforts on new main roads are absolutely necessary, because it is full in the Swedish rail system. That's the first thing. We're hitting the capacity ceiling. We need new main courses. This was a process that, among other things, the Moderates started with the construction of Sweden both to strengthen the railway capacity and to get space for residential building. And it's not just Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. It is Linköping, Norrköping, Hässleholm, Värnamo, Borås. I was recently in Jönköping and met the Chamber of Commerce there. Entrepreneurs by entrepreneur in Hillerstorp, Skillingaryd, Aneby and Vaggeryd testified on how important it is to invest in new main roads in order to get goods climate smart. The freight capacity will increase on the Södra Stambanan if you build new main tracks. It is also a question of increasing the possibility of recruiting labour to the region, as regional enlargement increases significantly with efforts on new main routes. There was a broad consensus, not least among many Moderates and entrepreneurs, about the investment in new main courses. Here in the Riksdag, however, they choose to try to make simple placard politics of initiatives that are long-term necessary for Sweden to cope with the climate change change. This is what happens for a party that prioritises 1 krona reduction in petrol tax by SEK 7 billion in a situation when millions of young people around the world demonstrate their concern for the climate.
i-4b7e480337da633c-529	Madam President, I would like This debate is about flights and not trains. There are quite a few other than us Moderates who think that high-speed trains are an investment that is not really worth the huge sums it actually costs. Of course, we will invest in new rails where we have narrow sectors so that we improve the accessibility and capacity of Swedish rails. But it is important not to spend huge sums of money on things that actually do not have a socio-economic profitability. I wrote in my interpellation that a light in the dark is the mission of electric airplanes. I think that there is every reason to look to the future with confidence. Norway has stuck its chin out and set a target for when domestic flights should go on electricity, which I might think we in Sweden should also do. There's a possibility. We have asked the industry to look at what it would cost to invest in charging infrastructure at Swedish airports. It lands between 2 and 4 billion, compared to 230 – 400 billion – somewhere in between, at best, the price of high-speed trains. If we do not want to lose more flights from Arlanda, we need clear information from the government what we really want with Arlanda in particular and Swedish flights in general. I recently met Svenskt Flyg and I have to admit that it felt like a sprained organisation. They are concerned about the priority, because the only thing you talk about is rails and you do not take into account the work that is being done to change in aviation. The only thing the government focuses on is rails; everything that goes on the road and in the air is uninteresting. I can also find it strange that the Arlanda Council was completed last spring. A final report has been submitted to the Government Office, but this report is not public. There is no way for others to partake of it. There are others who have ideas about Arlanda, for example Swedavia with their master plan for Arlanda, but there is very little from the government about what you really want with Arlanda. Although you don't have the final ideas clear on what it should look like in concrete terms, I think that Svenskt Flyg currently needs some kind of positive signal from the government that you actually think that aviation is important. As I said, the electric aircraft is a little sparkle of light in the dark, but the aviation industry feels that the government only speaks rails and does not care about either road or air.
i-4b7e480337da633c-537	Madam President, I would like I think that I am very much talking not only about rail but also about the challenges of aviation, about maritime transport, which is important enough to meet the climate requirements and strengthen freight transport and about the modal shift in the transport sector in general, whether it be lorries, buses or cars. The flight is important. I think it is necessary to say this at a time when aviation is facing major challenges. For a country like Sweden, an industrial country that is export dependent, aviation is incredibly important. That is precisely why it is so urgent for the aircraft to change. Here you can see a difference if you look five or seven years back. At that time, one could sometimes hear aviation operators unilaterally criticising the air tax and not taking on board concerns about the climate emissions of aviation. Today we see that the industry itself is moving forward with fossil-free and is working properly with an industry-wide programme and with industrial actors for the conversion of aviation. It's good, it's slow but it's good, and it shows that you understand the challenges we're facing. Maria Stockhaus compares 2 – 4 billion for a one-off investment in charging infrastructure at airports with 230 billion to build new main routes that will last for perhaps a hundred years and have a capacity that far exceeds years of air travel with the conditions that train travel has, as each train set can handle perhaps 700 – 800 passengers. Of course everyone understands that there are two completely different things to compare between. The interesting thing is that Sweden must cope with both. We must be able to invest in developing the rail system and capacity. We are 10 million people in Sweden. We are a country that still produces a lot and must strengthen the capacity of the freight transport system, not least by rail. There it is now crowded on the tracks. It is full because it was underinvested during the time when the Moderates ruled the country and we had a finance minister who did not want to invest in Swedish railways. We have had to spend a lot of time doing the greatest railway effort in modern times in order to improve conditions in this way. Air travel is needed, both to keep the country together and to increase the conditions for reaching international export markets. But for that to be possible, the flight also needs to be changed. Here we give assignments, not least about electrification. It will be exciting to see how it will affect the airport structure and the challenges we face. It is true that the prerequisites for charging infrastructure are a challenge. But then it is true that Sweden has good opportunities thanks to a forward-looking energy policy. We have the largest electricity surplus ever thanks to an energy agreement that has since it was made invested SEK 85 billion in investment decisions on renewable energy. I note that the Moderates now want to drop this off. They say that we should subsidize nuclear power instead, even though Germany and many other countries are leaving nuclear power and although we see that the market is looking for renewables because it is cheaper and more sustainable. It has given Sweden an electricity surplus that is now so large that it would be able to cover the entire transport sector. We therefore have good conditions for electrification of aircraft. Let us hope that it is an opportunity, but at the same time be careful that on the way there, it is biofuel interference that will be crucial for aviation to be able to reduce its climate impact over the next decade. That is how we build the country competitively and strongly. That's how we make sure that all modes of traffic are involved. The Moderates have chosen a different path. They say no to air tax and want to reduce petrol tax and cut environmental subsidies.
i-4b7e480337da633c-547	Madam President, I would like I think it is quite telling that the Minister for Infrastructure, when we are having an interpellation debate on aviation, spends more than 50% of his time talking about trains. I think that signal value is quite clear. In my world, it is serious that Arlanda loses eleven long lines in two years. It is quite a short time and many long lines, which mean a lot not least for business travellers' access to markets around the world. I also wonder what actually happened with entry control to the United States. I thought in my oblivion that it was the United States that had put the lid on, but I have become aware that this is clearly not the case. It is also an important signal issue. Aren't we going to the United States, which is one of our most important markets? I understand that the government finds it difficult to find out what you want with the flight and to be clear that you want to develop Arlanda – if that's what you want – given above all the Green Party's attitude that everything that goes on rail is good and everything that flies and goes on the road is bad. I think that when you talk about climate issues you also have to ask yourself how much climate pressure it means to build rails. There are estimates that at best a high-speed railway will be climate neutral by 2050. It's a huge strain on the environment to build rails. This can be compared with setting up charging infrastructure at airports, which would mean that domestic aviation would be climate-smart rather quickly. If the whole of Sweden is to live and develop and growth is to be secured, aviation is needed. I still think that the question is justified: What does the government really want with aviation in Sweden?
i-4b7e480337da633c-553	Madam President, I would like The answer is clear: we have a flight strategy. It is more than could be seen that the moderate-led government was able to produce. It is a flight strategy that clearly points to how aviation will develop in Sweden to cope with the transformation but also to ensure accessibility. To put it against other infrastructure investments on rail, shipping or roads is less resourceful, I would say. We need to do both. Sweden has 10 million inhabitants. We need to cope with both the supply of labour and the enlargement of labour market regions, but at the same time we need to ensure that aviation is in a position to cope with climate change. For a long time, the flight was alone in not being able to contribute. That was one of the reasons why we not only introduced the aviation tax but are now working internationally to change the regulatory framework so that it will be possible to tax fossil aviation fuel. It requires a change of practice and a reinterpretation of the Chicago Convention. That is why I have raised the issue in the ICAO in Montreal, the General Assembly which deals with the international rules of aviation. I notice and see that more people follow Sweden's example and realise that the flight needs to be changed. Then the issue of taxation can be a way forward, along with the rapid technological developments I hope we will see in aviation. We should also respect, and I think it is important to remember this for all party representatives, that there is a rapid development or change in aviation conditions. We see this not least now that flying has changed significantly in the past year. That is something that I have in mind when I look at what efforts will have to be made in the future, whether we are talking about Arlanda or for that matter about the regional airports in the country, which are incredibly important for Sweden to be able to stick together.
i-4b7e480337da633c-557	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me whether I intend to review the issue of charges to Arlanda. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It is therefore desirable that more people take public transport as a train to and from Arlanda. The Arlandabanan is built with a so-called concession agreement, and the basic conditions for the Arlandabane project were decided by the Riksdag on 8 June 1994 following proposals from the then government. The Government is not in a position to influence the fees in a legally binding agreement.
i-4b7e480337da633c-560	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply, although it was a little less than the previous one. We share the Government's ambitions regarding the need to reduce our emissions. This makes it necessary for more people to travel collectively. Our population is increasing. In an elongated country, the need for travel and transport is great, and for us to succeed in our climate ambitions, it is important that travel takes place climate-smartly. Last year, over 26 million passengers flew to or from Arlanda. The number will most likely increase as our population increases, and this makes it important to ensure climate-smart travel to and from Arlanda for these travellers. Today, train travel to and from Arlanda is decreasing. Madam President, I would like It may be interesting to compare with Norway, for example. To and from Gardermoen travels over 70 percent collectively; the same figure for Arlanda is less than 50 percent. To Gardermoen travels 50 percent by train; to Arlanda it is 28 percent. To Kastrup is the figure 58 percent, and which by one chance is the ticket price one fifth of the Arlanda Express price. It is 20 percent of the passengers to and from Arlanda who travel by taxi, compared with 4 percent to and from Gardermoen. One probable reason for this is the ticket prices and the fee that passengers travelling on commuter trains will have to pay to get into the airport. A-A-Train, who has an agreement to run Arlanda Express, makes a profit. According to the agreement they have, this means that they make extra payments to the State – 2018 it was 46 million. This money could be used to lower the price to take the train to Arlanda and make it cheaper to travel climate smart to Arlanda. At the end of July, the agreement with A-A-Train, the company operating Arlanda Express, was extended until 2050. This was done through the company Arlandabanan Infrastructure, which is located under the Government Office. The company receives around 66 million each year, and parts of this money are passed on to the Treasury.
i-4b7e480337da633c-567	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the common resources available to us will be used to support and improve the conditions for climate-smart travel. I think that's important. This can of course mean rail investments in the Stockholm region, but it can also mean other climate-smart travel. Let's get back to that when we talk about national plans in the future – I think it's important. However, the basic construction will not be able to get away from Maria Stockhaus. For the Moderates it was very important, under the then government, to have a OPS agreement, to privatise and to be able to ensure that in this way one got an Arlanda runway under private direction with a state agreement. This agreement was concluded shortly before the 1994 elections. The social democrats, to whom I belong, reserved themselves against the decision, but it is a legally binding agreement which regulates the conditions and which does not provide for the possibility of going in and editing or changing fares afterwards as Maria Stockhaus wishes. The question I would like to ask back is whether this prompts the Moderates to draw any conclusions with regard to OPS. I am not sure that this has been done in the Stockholm region, given the experience of the current medical OPS, which is being debated. However, in the area of infrastructure, requests for OPS solutions often come back again. Has the experience from Arlandabanan led to any changes in Moderates' position on what it means to enter into long-term binding agreements with stakeholders? For me, this is a motive when we look at the conditions for financing different types of infrastructure. I am pragmatic and would like us to find different types of financing solutions where this is possible, but it must be ensured that there are good conditions for also looking at issues such as fares, availability and frequency to an extent that may not have been possible with the agreement currently in force with Arlandabanan.
i-4b7e480337da633c-571	Madam President, I would like In view of the infrastructure investments we have before us, I think – or we – it is reasonable to try to see if other types of investment opportunities can be used. It may not necessarily be about OPS solutions, but there are other ways. The Öresund Bridge is a very successful example – where it has been used a little different type of funding that is absolutely possible. It is also about how these agreements are written, and one can think about how the agreement with A-A-Train is written. However, it is still the case that the agreement was only last summer extended until 2050. When the government states that it prioritises the climate issue and has high targets, I wonder whether the Minister for Infrastructure is satisfied with the figures as to how many people travel by taxi compared to what it looks like to other airports. It goes without saying that when you see this development you can have a discussion with A-A-Train and see which ways forward. I imagine that A-A-Train is also interested in getting more passengers on their trains, so it must reasonably be possible to have a discussion. I do not know to what extent the government has tried to hold such discussions with A-A-Train.
i-4b7e480337da633c-574	Madam President, I would like I note that it has its risks to sign long contracts, because that reduces freedom of action. This may be good at the moment because it increases the financing conditions, but it also reduces the freedom of action to be able to change the conditions. This is the case with regard to the Arlanda runway. Once this has been said, one should say that it has been an infrastructure that has been sustainable and a travel that has had high punctuality and functioned well, now to a greater extent with other actors – SJ and SL – who have also been able to connect. I believe that this is an important prerequisite, because in the future the journey – not least the journey to and from Arlanda – needs to be fossil-free. In the same way, Swedavia is now working successfully to convert the entire Arlanda airport to fossil-free in its own operations. Here there will be a number of challenges that not least Arlandarådet is working with and that we carry with us in the continued work of developing and ensuring to create a sustainable structure for flying in Sweden also in the future.
i-4b7e480337da633c-577	Madam President, I would like In 2016, the government received a report from the state coordinator of air capacity and housing in the Stockholm area. The government then wrote on its website that the government has a responsibility to terminate Arlanda Express concession in 2040 and to ensure that it is replaced by more efficient and cheaper traffic. Then you can think about what has happened since then. What has caused the government to change its mind and, in fact, only this summer chose to extend the agreement?
i-4b7e480337da633c-579	Madam President, I would like It is not the government that has extended the agreement, but AIAB has. This responsibility lies with the company that has to deal with the agreement that exists between the players for Arlandabanan.
i-4b7e480337da633c-580	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander has asked me what I and the government intend to do to find a long-term solution for Sweden's non-state airports. Sweden is a country with a long distance that is sparsely populated. This means that aviation plays an important role in the transport system in terms of long-distance travel and transport. At the same time, aviation has a significant environmental and climate impact to reduce. Aviation is part of the transport system, which means that aviation must be developed in collaboration with other modes of transport in order to create an efficient and sustainable transport system. Flying, like other modes of transport, will contribute to the goal of Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. There has been State operating aid to non-State regional airports for a long time. In December 2019, the Government decided to instruct the Swedish Transport Administration to review the Swedish contingency airports, which aim to ensure preparedness for the delivery of important public air transport regardless of the time of day. The mandate includes assessing the current system and making proposals for possible changes. The mission also includes taking into account society's current and future needs for emergency airports to meet the needs of socially important air transport. The assignment will be implemented in collaboration with a number of government agencies and organisations and will be reported by 15 June 2020.
i-4b7e480337da633c-583	Madam President, I would like The Government of Eneroth states that it has commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to review Swedish contingency airports, which I think is great, and that it should be completed in June 2020. The state operates through Swedavia ten airports with fairly large profits. A specific debate may be held as to why the State has handed over the non-profit airports to municipalities and other operators but has itself retained the profit-making ones. Then, as I said, there are 29 additional airports that are often run by municipalities that are going steeply backwards. If we want the whole of Sweden to live in the EU's second most sparsely populated country – then we know that most people in Sweden, 90%, live south of Mälardalen – we need working airports. I myself come from a town in northern Dalarna, Mora. Through an interpretation of the regulations, Trafikverket has stopped a stopover, which has existed for many years, for flights from Sveg to Arlanda. Jobs and entrepreneurship are now at risk in northern Dalarna. Then you should remember that the reason for this is that Trafikverket says that it is possible to get by train to Stockholm so fast. I travel that route every week, and it takes 3 hours and 50 minutes to travel by train. If you live in northern Dalarna it is 200 km to the train station, and it takes 2 hours and 30 minutes just to go to it. So I see the aircraft passing over my head on my way to Arlanda Airport, and it must not stop landing according to Trafikverket. I know that the government and the minister have been working for a few years to get something, but so far nothing has happened. The Government of Eneroth refers to an investigation into contingency airports that was set up in December 2019. In fact, in my interpellation there was another question about another assignment, namely the mission of an airport review that the government gave to the Finnish Transport Administration in the spring of 2018. It would have been completed by the end of 2018/ 2019 but is not yet ready. According to the media, there is also no end date set for it. It was submitted to the Government, an interim report, already in September 2018, but then nothing has happened about the investigation. There's a lot of people waiting for what's gonna happen there. It should be borne in mind that state aid to regional airports, about SEK 100 million, has remained at the same level for 20 years, while the deficit of municipal airports has increased to SEK 500 million during the same period. One might think that there is an awful lot of money and wonder if the state should be involved in subsidising some form of public transport, because aviation is also a form of public transport. Then we know that public transport in Sweden is subsidised by about 50 percent, 25 billion a year. Many people are waiting for a result of the airport review investigation. I wonder if the government knows where it's gone.
i-4b7e480337da633c-590	Madam President, I would like As a Gotlander, I work very hard on a sustainable flight. We have also started a network around what I am involved in running. There is no doubt that the industry is really facing a major challenge to get a climate-smart, sustainable flight. It has a very strong pressure on the industry, and you work hard on it. Not least, of course, they work to get local or national biofuel production. The other major development track is electric aircraft, as the Minister is well aware. It is worth saying, however, that in five years' time, we will probably have 19 electric aircraft capable of a distance of 400 km. If you look at today's range, for example, the BRA will pass 10 out of 18 lines, and that within five years. I shall also point out another part, namely that electric aircraft have a very fine function, in the same way as the electric car, that it reduces the variable cost per kilometre to about half. This means that it provides opportunities for the return of regional flights, so that we do not have to fly only via Stockholm all the time but can get routes across and across between small towns. I would say that this is the small towns train venture in practice. It will have a fantastic opportunity for development. At the moment, this is not the reality of the situation, but rather the flight is on its way down into a major slump for reasons of profitability and a little driven climate and air pollution debate, and now the corona virus is also at the top of the work. So the aviation industry is facing a really tough challenge right now. That is why I am a little worried about the intentions of the state with regional airports. They will indeed be a very important part of achieving regional development in the future. But it wants not all airports and airlines to have time to go bankrupt before then. My question to the Minister is simply: what responsibility does the Minister see for the state to make regional airports survive this slump?
i-4b7e480337da633c-597	Madam President, I would like Thank both Lars Thomsson and Peter Helander! I very much appreciate the commitment to regional airports, because, as I have said on several occasions and even here today, it is crucial for an industrial country like Sweden to have good air connections to keep the country together and secure accessibility but also to be able to get out on the world's export markets. Since at the same time we have clear climate ambitions, aviation must also change. To Lars Thomsson in particular, I would like to say that there will be an exciting discussion in the future if the electric aircraft can establish itself as an opportunity. We do not know that, but joint research efforts are being made on this, and there is strong industrial development. For this reason, we from the government have developed a mission on electric air transport and its consequences for the airport structure. Perhaps other conditions are created with the charging infrastructure in which it needs to be invested, but also with the distances that we can see becoming topical in the future with the electric flights that may develop. One of the responses to Peter Helander is that there has been work on a regional airport review. In a situation where the Arlanda Council worked, it was important for me to give the clear signal that it is not only Arlanda that is crucial for the future of aviation and opportunities in Sweden but also the regional airport structure. The distribution that was made at one time, well before my time as Minister of State, concerned a number of state airports, and then the regions had to bear their responsibilities. I thought it appropriate to review whether changes were needed and, not least, what the financing conditions were, because many small municipalities are making significant efforts to maintain airports. After last summer's fires, I think many people realized how important it is to have an airport structure throughout the country. It is important, not least for civil protection or total defence reasons, to ensure that there are emergency airports. That was also one reason why in December we chose to put in place a mission on the contingency airports and the possibilities for aviation to be helpful for operations throughout the country. The government is making significant efforts for airports. Airport aid to non-governmental regional airports amounts to approximately SEK 113 million per year. In addition, SEK 99 million were announced last year, of which SEK 67 million was used, for air tax compensation to airports, especially in Norrland. In addition, there is a public service contract whereby the State procures routes where the market does not carry out a market price of SEK 163 million. The state therefore takes a great responsibility for there to be flights throughout the country. As we said here tonight, the flight is needed, but the flight also needs to be changed. The government's starting point is to come back with a number of different proposals, not least due to the assignments I have told you about, to give aviation good conditions to exist and hold Sweden together but also to cope with the absolutely necessary transformation.
i-4b7e480337da633c-604	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Will the review that would be completed over a year ago but that we have not seen yet come, or is it in a moth bag? Is it involved in other investigations? One could imagine a model that other countries in the Nordic countries have, where the state pays even more and equalizes costs and revenues between different airports. This is true, among other things, in Norway. It would be good if the government could come up with some encouraging orientations for the small regional airports, which are so important for rural and sparsely populated areas. Just as my colleague Lars Thomsson mentioned, biofuels and electric flights are on a large scale around the corner. Although Swedish domestic aviation has a certain environmental impact, it is relatively small, and this air traffic means an incredible amount for rural areas, sparsely populated areas and jobs and entrepreneurship outside the big cities. It would therefore be good if the government could come up with a directional decision that gave hope to those airports that are currently having a tough time. The state procures air traffic, but the Finnish Transport Agency first makes an assessment of whether it can be procured air traffic. I mentioned earlier that my municipality of residence has been purchasing air traffic for many years, which has been very useful. But now we cannot procure air traffic because the Finnish Transport Agency says that there are no obligations. According to Trafikverket's interpretation of the regulatory framework, it must take longer than four hours to reach the capital by train, otherwise it is not subject to a public service obligation. This means that we end up in a moment 22 with our airport. We pay and operate it for ambulance flights, rescue flights and other air operations, but we do not have regular services. The EU regulatory framework says that it is three hours that apply, but the Swedish Transport Administration has added another hour. Mora Municipality has been down in Brussels discussing this, and it says that Mora Municipality will appeal. It is believed that the Swedish state does not take into account jobs, entrepreneurship and social factors, as the government should do in these procurements. Instead, the state has spent an hour. It takes 2 hours and 40 minutes to travel from northern Dalarna to the train station and then 3 hours and 45 minutes by train to Stockholm. Let's talk some tracks, too. It would have been great to have a five-billion-dollar investment at Dalabanan. But there are no major investments in the next ten years. There are no major investments in road traffic up towards Sälen on Västerdalsvägen either. We can show that emissions have increased because we are not allowed to fly anymore. I know that the Government has received this investigation. Why can't the procured traffic from Sveg make a stopover? It would be socially profitable and environmentally sound. The only thing missing right now is a government regulation letter. This has been done at other airports. I understand that the Government has no information to give here today, but he might be able to comment on it anyway.
i-4b7e480337da633c-616	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is hopeful that the Minister understands the role of aviation in the future. As far as technological developments are concerned, it is clear that aviation will develop more or less in the same way as cars. Some flights will be powered by biofuels and others with hybrid solutions, and on the shorter routes there will be electric flights. The 400 km limit is with today's battery, but in five ten years we will have a massive electrification of the aircraft. I am absolutely convinced that it will go much faster than we think. However, this does not help in the current slump, which leads to even greater regional losses at airports. Moreover, they are often run by poor municipalities. An investment wave in charging infrastructure is also needed to cope with the switch to electric flights. Swedavia has a better condition here as it has a higher cash flow. But regional airports, too, must have this charging infrastructure and therefore need to be given a reasonable chance of success. I am very much looking forward to the forthcoming announcement by the government, which makes the positive role of domestic aviation a little clearer, because this has so far been a cause for concern.
i-4b7e480337da633c-621	Madam President, I would like I don't think that's gonna change. We have made it clear that the flight is needed but that the flight needs to be changed. After Nextchet's bankruptcy, we were able to fly into the air quickly in three of the locations. Otherwise, it was the EU acquis that delayed opportunities. Nevertheless, within six months we were able to establish flights also at other destinations because it was important. We have introduced a flight tax to ensure that the aircraft bears its climate responsibility but also introduced a flight tax compensation for not least the airports in Norrland, and SEK 67 million has been distributed. There is work going on in the Government Office, to which Mr Helander also referred, where we have looked at the experience of the position that was made at one time on the commitment of the State to the regional airport structure. We are also looking at the regulatory framework for the public service obligations, in which the situation in Mora, in particular, has been important in the discussions. Work is under way, and the government will present its conclusions. I have also told you in this House that during the course of this work we have had reason to look further at, for example, the emergency airports, hence the mission. It is difficult to predict technological developments, but now we can give the task of electric flights. Although Lars Thomsson, like me, is an optimist in technology, I do not think that five years ago we could have seen the rapid technological development that is now taking place with electric aircraft. At the same time, let us be careful to say that it remains to be seen whether it is a structure that can be established and whether you can meet all the aviation safety requirements that are rightly to be imposed on electric flights just like on all other powertrains. I am following these technological developments closely because I see that it provides the conditions for achieving climate objectives more quickly. There are also conditions that are different from those on the biofuels side. Let us remember that in the midst of this challenge for Swedish flights, for municipalities with airports, for aviation industry and airlines, we also have a development where many are concerned about climate change and therefore choose not to fly. Flygskam is a familiar concept in the debate, and it has an effect on flying for both individuals and organisations. This is also shown in the statistics. More people choose to travel by train, whether in Europe or in Dalarna on the newly inaugurated Västerdalsbanan, an investment in infrastructure in Peter Helander's regions. I believe that one reason why the debate arises, among other things, is that it has not felt that aviation has taken climate change seriously in the past. That is why I am so happy that there is now a completely different responsibility and commitment from the industry and from industrial actors. There, the government is clear: the aircraft will switch, with Maria Wetterstrand's study on biofuels, with electrification and with the support available to the regional airport structure, which is significant given the commitment made by the State, not least the air tax compensation. The government will come back with proposals in the future to ensure that aviation is able to cope with the change but also that we meet the accessibility targets that we have. We will ensure that there are good conditions for growth and development throughout the country. Sometimes this will involve major investments in new main roads or roads. In many places it will also be important to have a regional airport that has a bearing capacity. It is a challenge with the economic slowdown we are seeing right now. It is therefore important that we carefully analyse the data we have and come back to.
i-4b7e480337da633c-632	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Minister Eneroth, for the answers! The flying beam – if it is – has of course affected air travel in Sweden. Many companies in Dalarna, especially in my hometown, are owned by international groups. One of the major companies has 300 000 employees worldwide and its headquarters in Paris. I've been watching, and it's faster to go to Azerbaijan than to Mora from Paris. It is clear that it will affect in some way when you see that you have a production facility somewhere in northern Scandinavia that you cannot get to. Then you move the business, not only closer to Stockholm but down to Europe. I think it is a sad development that we are losing jobs and jobs in Sweden. I've worked in aviation my whole life, and I'm fascinated by the speed of technological development. When I started civil aviation, fuel consumption in the aircraft was halved in 15 years. The next step, which I didn't think would come so fast, is what happened last summer in Almedalen. Or maybe it happened earlier. Suddenly the aviation industry said that it will be fossil-free in five six years' time and that it will then run on electricity and biofuels. It is going incredibly fast, so it is important that the government is really on its toes here and ensure that regional airports remain when the conversion comes. Because it's coming. Dalaflygten, who organizes Borlänges and Moras airports, has said that they will be the first to become fossil-free in Sweden. That is a fantastic ambition, but then we cannot close airports. Then it will not happen, but then people will travel with other means of transport.
i-4b7e480337da633c-636	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander! We have discussed aviation several times, and it is always as uplifting. I think we both see the need for the flight but also for the flight to be changed. I can assure you, we're on our toes. Not least, this is one of the reasons for the missions I have presented here. We are already looking, although we know that it is a long journey left, at what consequences the establishment of electric flights would have for the airport structure and what requirements this would impose on other social infrastructure. Due to the security policy situation but also the challenges we noticed after the fires last summer, there is also a mission on emergency airports to ensure this important capacity. There is the aircraft, not least the fire aircraft, for the important rescue operations that need to be carried out. I fully understand how difficult it is in smaller towns when you have companies that live in a competitive market. I myself have this experience when it comes to the glass industry in Småland. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that more is being invested in Sweden. Sweden is an attractive country to invest in, and foreign investments in Sweden have increased for a long time. At the same time, we have strengthened exports. Why? Because there is access to well-trained staff and to relatively good transport opportunities and, not least, that we have access to renewable energy. I dare to say that the electricity surplus we have and our investment in renewable energy, where the energy agreement created good conditions for access, has led to several of the establishments we now see in Sweden. Google, Northvolt and others say that the availability of renewable energy was crucial for them when they were established. Let us be proud of this and hope for more investments in Sweden.
i-4b7e480337da633c-641	Madam President, I would like Anders Hansson has asked me a few questions, whether I intend to take concrete initiatives to ensure access to ice breaking in the future, whether I and the Government will ensure that fairway and pilotage fees are not increased and whether I intend to take any initiatives to review the Maritime Administration's organisational and financing model. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The Government's ambition is to move freight transport from road to shipping. The government also wants to see more Swedish flagged ships in the Swedish merchant fleet. Several measures to strengthen maritime transport have therefore been initiated. Within the framework of the Government's national freight transport strategy, Trafikverket has appointed a national coordinator to work for increased domestic and short sea shipping. In the latest budget bill, the government proposed an extension of a so-called eco-bonus in order to stimulate the transfer of goods transport from road to shipping. That's 50 million kroner over three years. The Government has previously also commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to work for increased and broader support for research and innovation in the maritime sector. Up to SEK 100 million will be allocated in 2020, which is a doubling of the Swedish Transport Administration's efforts in maritime research. As Anders Hansson points out, the Swedish icebreaker fleet is ageing, and the Swedish Maritime Administration is faced with the need to invest in the fleet in the coming years to ensure that merchant shipping can operate in all Swedish waters throughout the year. Against this background, the Swedish Maritime Administration has started work to design a prototype for a new icebreaker. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration to return with the detailed technical and financial conditions for continuing this renewal process. After the agency has reported this, I am prepared to work for the agency to be given the opportunity to continue with this renewal process. The Authority is mainly financed by fees from merchant shipping. It is the authority that determines the amount of the fees. The Swedish Maritime Administration is a business. Surpluses from business activities contribute to the financing of other parts of the agency's activities. The government implements a variety of other measures in the maritime sector, such as capacity-enhancing measures in the port of Gothenburg and Luleå harbour and new locks in Trollhätte canal and in Södertälje. All these investments will strengthen the competitiveness of shipping, and they will not burden the fairway charges. The said freight transport strategy also includes further initiatives to develop maritime transport and create the conditions for transferring more goods to maritime transport.
i-4b7e480337da633c-647	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The answer that Minister Eneroth read was an answer to no less than three interpellations that I have made to the Government. The first concerns Sweden's icebreaker capability, where the Swedish Maritime Administration has announced that three new icebreakers need to be purchased at an estimated cost of approximately SEK 1.3 billion each. The question is how this should be done when the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances do not nearly allow this important investment. The Government's response is in fact in four sentences. The Government is prepared to work to provide the Authority with the necessary conditions. Optimist as I am, I interpret this as a promise and that we can look forward to three new icebreakers. The second interpellation is about fairway and pilot fees and the danger that they have been raised annually over the last three years to large but for Swedish shipping, as these charges directly affect merchant shipping. The third interpellation relates to the Swedish Maritime Administration's particularly crisp economy. As a business, the Swedish Maritime Administration will finance its activities by collecting fees. Given the very difficult financial situation of the Swedish Maritime Administration, this means that it has to increase its fairway and pilotage fees in order to raise more money, fees that have a direct negative impact on Swedish shipping as it becomes significantly more expensive than other countries' shipping. The latter two interpellations respond to the Government with three sentences stating that it is true that a business should finance its own business through fees. I had probably hoped for an answer that problematized more around the evil spiral to repair the work's economy through toll increases for Swedish shipping. Madam President, I would like Giving Swedish shipping the very best conditions to compete with other countries' shipping should be one of the government's most important tasks. Today, almost 90 per cent of all goods coming to and from Sweden are handled by shipping in some way. Shipping together with our ports and transport companies ensures that the shelves in our stores are filled every day of the week. Shipping ensures that we as a country can both export and import goods from countries all over the world. Shipping is a fundamental part of Swedish welfare. However, the conditions are edged by the fact that the leading authority in the area, the Swedish Maritime Administration, has a very strained economy. As one of Sweden's three remaining businesses, the work will finance its own operations precisely through fees. Fairway fees and pilotage fees currently account for more than 75 per cent of the project's funding. The Swedish Maritime Administration is doing a very good job, and I think we all agree on that. However, the economic situation means that fees must be increased annually in order for the work to have a positive economy. Fairway fees increased by 8 per cent in 2017, 9 per cent in 2018 and 2 per cent in 2019. The increase in piloting fees was more easy to count; it was 5 per cent every year 2017, 2018 and 2019. For the coming years, the Swedish Maritime Administration has announced that the fairway and pilotage fees will need to be increased again in order to further clean up the work's finances. I believe that the recurring and annual increases should have been a clear warning to the government. But the question must be asked again: When does Minister Eneroth think that the fees have been raised so much that they become so massively negative for Swedish shipping, and ultimately for Swedish consumers, that the government actually has to act on the issue of increased fees versus the Swedish Maritime Administration's economy?
i-4b7e480337da633c-657	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Hansson for this. We have discussed shipping on several occasions. We share the burning interest in strengthening Swedish shipping. The funny thing is, it's happening. Swedish shipping is developing positively and has done so since this government took office, and also during the previous term of office. This was not the case earlier when we had a moderate government. Then it was not invested in shipping. That's when records were broken in flagging. The Swedish Maritime Administration's finances were saved at the end of its term of office with an ambulance call in the form of an initiative of a temporary nature. In order for maritime transport to be strengthened in the long term, it needs good conditions. Of course, some are tonnage taxes. The change there made the flagging now increase. I think it's been so important. Then there may be reason to evaluate and adjust the tonnage tax. There is a good dialogue between maritime operators and the government. But basically it is an important prerequisite. If flagging continues to increase, it is a matter of gradually strengthening Swedish shipping. We are doing this with a threefold increase in investment in national plans, with a doubling of research efforts and, of course, with a willingness to continue to act to ensure that shipping is in a good position. I would like to point out that there are no resources allocated to shipping in the Moderate budget movements. On the other hand, the Moderates have a rather high agitation against increased fairway fees, which are nevertheless the structural approach that exists to ensure a stable financing of important efforts made by the Swedish Maritime Administration. I think it is important to create some order instead of the serious situation that existed during the previous term of office. For shipping as such, investments are of course important. Here we make major efforts by the government. But, of course, it is also a question of looking at the overall toll burden when we now want shipping to develop. It is not only fairway charges and the state's share that shipping can take, but it is also, of course, port charges that have also been increased. I think it is important to look at the overall burden of charges in order for us also to see how we can find the right incentives to strengthen shipping. Pia Berglund, who is the national coordinator for shipping, now travels country and country around and discusses with ports and shipping operators, hauliers and goods owners. It is a good way of developing shipping and identifying the shortcomings that exist where shipping is not profitable enough or where the thresholds are too high. We are also looking at various forms of support schemes to facilitate this transition. I am proud of all the efforts we are making to strengthen Swedish shipping. But I can see that there are, of course, also important challenges in the future. One of them, on which I would like to mention a few words, is the effort to renew the icebreaker fleet. We are talking about major investments. At the same time, however, they are so necessary for shipping throughout the country to have good opportunities. 90% of our exports go by sea at some point. Not least with the growing investments that we see in Norrland with Northvolt, the mineral industry or other basic industries, it is so incredibly important that this does not become a responsibility for regional shipping or a regional responsibility. It's a national responsibility. It is crucial for me to have a small-time resident who has been bitten by the sea and the icebreaker capacity. I recently visited and studied the most modern icebreaker in the world, I think, namely the one that Finland opened a few years ago. I was deeply impressed and look forward to us also in Sweden having good opportunities to renew the icebreaker fleet. Icebreaker capacity we share between Sweden and Finland.
i-4b7e480337da633c-665	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for that answer. I believe that we can fully agree on the long-term rules of the game and that they are important. Add to that that there must be international rules concerning shipping, because it is moving in a market where the very international aspect is so clear. It's very important. The Government is taking up tonnage tax. It is actually a matter that the Government and I do not usually discuss. I always get to talk to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson about it. I shall take this opportunity to say that I would like to see an evaluation of the tonnage tax that has now been under way for three years. Only today in committee we had visits from shipping which lacked the commitment of the government to get an evaluation and, as it were, a tonnage tax 2.0. I agree that it is good, but it needs to be developed. Other countries are constantly working on this. Sweden does not, but we are just waiting right now. Let us have an evaluation so that we can quickly make the changes needed for the tonnage tax to work even better and for more ships to be written in Sweden. There's a lot to say about shipping. But the basic problem is that we are going around a little bit, and that is that we have the biggest player in shipping that is the Swedish Maritime Administration. It's one of the three remaining businesses. But it is a business that unfortunately, despite good ambitions, good will and good employees, does not meet the performance requirement. They have a 25 per cent profit requirement over the business cycle, but this has not been achieved since 2009. Today they have a solidity of 2%. The risk of negative capital already exists this year. This is something that I think is urgent – and I do not usually take this word into my mouth – because the Swedish Maritime Administration is such an important player in shipping. And the only way the Swedish Maritime Administration can finance its activities is to increase the fees that can be increased. Of course, the authority can be made more efficient. But then it also means removing the public service that you are doing today, and I do not believe that either Minister Eneroth or I want you to do so. It goes without saying that the fees must be increased by 10 per cent on a permanent basis, and pilotage fees must be fully covered. It is impossible to save yourself from this under current conditions. That's what I hear from the Swedish Maritime Administration. Add to this the discussion about icebreakers. The Swedish Maritime Administration is the authority that will acquire the icebreakers. They cost 1.3 billion each, and we need three. The old ones are simply too old. But we also need new icebreakers that reach a width of 32 metres and not 24, as those we have today do. With a cost of between 1.1 and 1.3 billion each – I took the highest for there to be no surprises later – we have to say that the Swedish Maritime Administration cannot do it in its economy today. It's hard to make it the way it is. It is important that the Government check on the Swedish Maritime Administration. It is an authority that we need. But it needs help at the moment.
i-WjDynmu9reECPbjDSCMYN2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Hansson! I share the view that a renewal of the icebreaker fleet is needed. It is an issue that I have been involved in for a long time. We are talking about very large investments. It is also about activities that are carried out jointly with mainly Finland but also with Estonia. Finland recently invested in a fantastic icebreaker that has the breadth and capacity needed. I can recommend a visit to it. This is basically about being financially prepared to invest in strengthening shipping. The government has, not least since I took office, made quite considerable efforts to strengthen Swedish shipping and its competitiveness. The Moderates have not shown any financial commitment in budgetary terms, although I know that Anders Hansson has a strong commitment. No specific initiatives have been proposed for maritime transport, but they have mainly criticised the rise in charges. It is important that we create long-term stable rules of the game for shipping, not least to get more Swedish flagged ships so that the Swedish merchant fleet is strengthened. It's not a matter of prestige. Some people seem to think so. But it is important for Sweden and for our capacity, in times of unrest and as redundancy, to ensure that there is Swedish flagged capacity. It is also important that those who want to work in the industry can have confidence, that there are prospects and that more can be recruited for shipping. I intend to use a few seconds of response time to argue that there is also a need for a different type of recruitment. 2% of maritime workers are women. That's not good enough. The industry needs to work much more structured to ensure a wider recruitment. It will also strengthen the competitiveness and quality of maritime transport. There is now a strong commitment on the part of maritime operators. I am impressed by the activities on Donsö, where you drive high school youth and others to show the prospects of shipping. As far as the Maritime Administration is concerned, I would like to say that it is a fantastic authority. It is a good business that conducts an impressive business and provides a service to Swedish shipping. Yes, there are major economic challenges. It's been around for a very long time. For me, it is more like a discussion about the structure of the business as such. However, given the conditions, it is important to realise that the Swedish Maritime Administration is carrying out solid efficiency improvements while developing its operations and helping to strengthen Swedish shipping in a good way. So I'm impressed with the work. An important objective is, of course, to ensure that both the Swedish Maritime Administration and other government agencies have good long-term economic prospects. Finally, I think we can agree that shipping has, rightly managed, good conditions for strengthening. This applies, in particular, to coastal shipping and inland navigation, with the task of the Finnish Transport Administration. Let us then work together, across party boundaries, to raise awareness of shipping capacity. I will honestly say that financial incentives are not always the starting point. It is also about the knowledge of transport buyers that shipping is a good climate-smart alternative. The government will go forward with climate declarations, in order to thus increase knowledge of the climate footprints of the various transports. This could be a way to strengthen shipping.
i-4b7e480337da633c-679	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Minister Eneroth, in his consideration of the Swedish Maritime Administration, mentions precisely the financing model and the organisational model. One of the reasons for this interpellation debate is that I think they need to be reviewed in this business. It falls to its absurdity that one does not get one's economy together more than by increasing the charges that so severely affect shipping. Without revealing too much, I can say that the Transport Committee is currently sitting with maritime reports, and the Moderates and several other parties will support that the Maritime Administration's organisational and financing model should be reviewed. This is also something that the Swedish National Audit Office criticized in a report 2018, if I am not mistaken, precisely because the businesses did not have the necessary governance. The Government replied that it did not share the Swedish National Audit Office's view but also that it would take any action. It was to follow the operations in order to ensure operational conditions and effective governance. It would also collect departures in rules in order to get a better overview. The first point is particularly topical. It is an activity which unfortunately does not work and which unfortunately will have to do what neither the Swedish Maritime Administration nor we want: increase the fees for commercial shipping. This would put Swedish shipping and the competitive advantages of Swedish shipping at a disadvantage. We need to get better there and review the Swedish Maritime Administration.
i-4b7e480337da633c-683	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Anders Hansson. I note that I did not receive an answer from Anders Hansson, although on two occasions I mentioned the fact that the Moderates did not want to spend additional resources on shipping in any budget exercise. Nevertheless, this is about the economy at large. Questions about organisation are important. I share that view. We'll always discuss that. But it is to act and to be prepared to prioritise which is crucial. This government has prioritised, with the tonnage tax, with investment in research, with tripled investment in fairway investments and with other incentives to strengthen Swedish shipping. It has not been seen by shipping for a long time. And the effects are visible, with increased flagging and a completely different confidence. Maritime transport also faces major challenges with investments in changing drivelines – it is probably so interesting – and also there in bioenergy, methanol or, for that matter, electrification to an increased extent. This is an example of the transformation of the transport system in Sweden. It's crucial that we make it. It will help to strengthen competitiveness. But it will also help us to meet the climate goals and that Sweden will be the first fossil-free welfare country and a permanent world exhibition where we show that it is actually possible. If we do this with the Swedish maritime operators, the world around us can do the same. Then we can make demands more easily and clearly in the IMO or other international contexts and say that it is possible to manage the transition. I think the way the world looks right now, that's the signal that's needed.
i-4b7e480337da633c-689	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me a number of questions about the Swedish Transport Administration's calculation models. The Finnish Transport Agency has the task of promoting the achievement of transport policy objectives. This means, among other things, that the Finnish Transport Agency will work towards achieving the overall generational objective for the environment and environmental quality objectives, including the transport sector's climate targets, which is now also a transport policy milestone. When infrastructure measures are planned in the national plan, it is important to provide evidence of the contribution of different measures to transport policy objectives, including their economic impact. These bases then form the basis for the government's consideration with a view to deciding on measures in the transport infrastructure. The Finnish Transport Agency has already in its instructions to develop, manage and apply methods and models for socio-economic analyses. The Finnish Transport Agency regularly publishes a plan for this work and continuously develops the methodology in this area. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to explain how the Authority's alternative forecast scenarios describe, among other things, a reduction in traffic development that may arise as a result of decided and announced policies and in relation to the objectives that apply to the transport area, which includes the climate target for the transport sector. Trafikanalys has the Government's mission to continuously monitor Trafikverket's work to develop models for socio-economic analyses. The government is following developments in this area.
i-4b7e480337da633c-694	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer to my interpellation. Since 2012, Trafikverket has made time assessments of different types of traffic. It is estimated how much a lost hour costs depending on whether the trip is made by car, train or bus, for example. A lost hour costs 42 SEK for the bus passenger, 78 SEK for the one travelling by train and, according to estimates using the Swedish Transport Administration's model, 116 SEK for the one travelling by car. The motorist's time is therefore much higher than that of the bus and train passenger. These are subjective values based on interviews and contacts with travellers. The values are then, as the Minister for Infrastructure is concerned, the basis for political decisions and infrastructure planning. If the driver's time is twice as important as the bus passenger's and about 50 percent more important than the train passenger's, it is not too far-fetched that it is at hand to make it easier to build more roads and expand capacity so that motorists lose less time. This has been criticised by traffic planners, researchers, officials at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the environmental movement and so on. It is believed that the time spent by public transport passengers is underestimated for the benefit of those travelling by car. The Finnish Transport Agency will now be able to come to the Transport Committee here in the Riksdag and report on its time assessments. I wanted to know whether the Minister for Infrastructure is prepared to take the initiative in order for the Finnish Transport Administration to have new time valuation calculations, which do not disadvantage rail and bus passengers, and whether the Minister is prepared to take the initiative in order for the Finnish Transport Agency to start from our goals rather than future forecasts of, for example, increased driving. In his reply, the Minister for Infrastructure refers to an assignment in the Transport Agency's regulation letter. The Minister for Infrastructure read out the mission, Madam President. It was about alternative forecast scenarios of reduced traffic development. Among other things, the climate target shall be included in these alternative scenarios. But I really do not think that this mission will solve the problem. I would like to ask the Minister what the purpose of the mission to the Finnish Transport Administration is. Is the aim of upgrading the time spent by public transport users when making future time forecasts, or at least that the time spent by all travellers is valued equally so that time is as important for those travelling by bus or train as for those travelling by car? What else is the purpose of the mission? I have to ask that, because I do not fully understand the mission given to the Finnish Transport Administration by the Minister.
i-4b7e480337da633c-700	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the commitment to the various data that Trafikverket has as its mission to develop and apply when they develop the basis for a position in a national plan in their work. These are not the only bases. A wide range of data are produced for the decisions we will make in national infrastructure planning. Jens Holm himself writes in his question to me: are the politicians strictly following Trafikverket's forecasts, important railway projects like Citybanan in Stockholm, Citytunneln in Malmö, Västlänken in Gothenburg, Norrbotniabanan or the expansion of the metro in Stockholm at all would not have happened. This is correct. Had we had a model in Sweden where calculations of the net present value ratio or socio-economic assessments alone were the basis, we would of course have been able to use an Excel sheet and figure out with mathematical methods which is the most important and best infrastructure investment. That's not how reality works. The reality is that we weigh together a variety of data that relate to both efficiency and profitability calculations with the climate and socio-economic goals we have and, for that matter, gender aspects, as well as development goals and, to be quite clear, the political visions and ideas we have about how society should develop. I think it is important to note that the Authority, with scientific expertise, international comparison and the right factual data, should be able to present different statistical measurements of the values of the different infrastructure options. This, of course – it is absolutely self-evident – should be relevant and undisputed. Here, Trafikverket has an important job to ensure that these are the right calculation models, be able to respond to criticism that exists in the scientific community and develop the models. Having said that, however, it is also important to note that the policy's task is to balance the various bases and then to take a position. I note that several of the infrastructure projects that have been crucial in Sweden's history, with the calculations applied, would not have been carried out if only the calculations had been relied on. This is where the policy comes in, as well as other evidence, which complements the NPV ratio and provides other perspectives. In the future, the climate aspect, together with socio-economic aspects, will be of great importance. I have also made this clear as Minister of Infrastructure, not to reproduce the mistakes of previous generations and because, as a Social Democrat and representative of this government, I think it is important that in future we also take into account several other aspects when considering which infrastructure items are the most important. Here I don't think the distance between Jens Holm and me is that big. We probably have similar views about what is the right way to go. However, it is not the task of the Government or the Government to regulate or talk about exactly which calculation models the Finnish Transport Agency should choose to have. However, we are clear that Trafikverket should have models that are relevant and scientifically proven. It also has a responsibility to develop methods so that you follow the latest research when you then choose to recommend or calculate and provide the basis for future decisions.
i-4b7e480337da633c-708	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Swedish Transport Administration has the task of continuously developing its models. But somewhere we politicians are still sending a signal to our authorities as to the framework within which we want them to make their models and simply what targets they should have for the plans that are being drawn up. This is exactly what the regulatory letter is about. I asked about paragraph 15 of the regulatory letter, to which the Minister refers. Will the assignment to Trafikverket mean that Trafikverket will take greater account of our environmental and climate objectives? Is that the purpose of the mandate set out in paragraph 15 of the Regulatory Letter? It would be very good to know what the intention of the minister is with the mission in the regulation letter. I see another problem in the time valuation calculations that Trafikverket does. There a lost time unit is valued differently depending on the mode of transport you travel with. A lost hour by car simply costs much more than a lost hour by public transport. We also know that men and high-income people are over-represented in car travel, while women, low-income earners, children and pensioners travel more collectively. We want an equal and equal transport system as a clear political objective. But when we then have forecasts and time valuation calculations that enhance male travel at the expense of the female – I harden it a bit, but men travel more with their own car and women more with public transport – we underestimate public transport in the calculations. How does this reconcile with the fact that we want to achieve an equal transport system? Does the Minister not think that the values on which future decisions are based become a problem? Do they not hamper the achievement of an equal transport system? Before 2012, all time was valued equally, as far as I understand. A lost hour by car was valued like a lost hour by public transport. In 2012, however, they switched to a system that greatly upgrades a lost hour by car. Why did they do that? Other countries do not have this system, i.e. they value time differently depending on the mode of transport. Why do we do this in Sweden? Why do we have a system where it is valued much higher to travel by your own car than to travel collectively? And is the Minister prepared to act to change the timing system?
i-4b7e480337da633c-715	Madam President, I would like I think that several of Jens Holm's questions are excellent to ask when the authority has now been invited to the Transport Committee. It is about the exact calculation models and how to value the different time factors. It is, of course, important for the members of the committee to have answers to those questions. I am relying on what is the government's directive, namely that the Finnish Transport Administration should ensure that we can achieve the transport policy objectives. We are very clear that the climate targets will also be reached in the future. This means, not least, the mission that I referred to in the answer. It gives the Finnish Transport Administration clear instructions to take this into account in the future. Then, of course, the calculation models will constantly change. The Swedish Transport Administration is also tasked with developing methods for correctly assessing and developing the calculation models that are used as a basis. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that this is one of the many bases that exists, alongside many others, in the face of the positions that we then make politically. As both myself and Jens Holm's interpellation referred to, the starting point is not only that one should base oneself on the different net present value ratios or the socio-economic calculations, but there are also other reasons for concern, not least the climate but also demands for accessibility, which are crucial for what then becomes political decisions. Jens Holm referred to what I have said on some previous occasion – and I really mean it – that we cannot plan the infrastructure based on men and cars. It may have been done earlier, but that time is over. We must have a transport policy that takes socio-economic account and also takes the gender aspect into account, so that it becomes equal opportunities and better and fairer conditions for mobility throughout Sweden. It is a tough challenge, because it involves a lot of conflict in terms of goals when we are at the same time changing the transport sector and making the investments that climate policy is right and yet ensuring that we increase accessibility in both rural and urban areas. Here we need to work together politically at municipal, regional and national level to develop governance models and prioritise the right investments for the transformation we are facing. I appreciate the Transport Committee inviting the Finnish Transport Agency to look at the calculation models themselves. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that it is not the precise models or calculations that determine the fundamental political decisions. It is one of the bases for a position. Another basis is the wishes and priorities of the regions. For example, it talks about what it considers to be the most important effort to enlarge the region's labour market. This could involve the possibility of developing the basic industry or the tourism industry along the Norrbotnia Line and expanding the labour market commuting along the Norrland coast. According to some calculations, Norrbotniabanan is not profitable. It remains to be seen when it is in place if the volume of traffic increases. It has been shown on several occasions that the traffic work is considerably greater than previously estimated and that more people choose to travel with that alternative. This must be at the heart of the situation when we then make political decisions. Yes, Trafikverket has the task of having the best possible calculation models, to develop them, to make sure that the methods are relevant and to compare with other countries and with international research. But it is we who are elected representatives in the government and parliament who ultimately make decisions on infrastructure investments. No one's going to take that responsibility away from us.
i-4b7e480337da633c-724	Madam President, I would like Let me be very clear and give a concrete example of why the bases are very important and actually influence political decisions. Before 2012, when Trafikverket calculated the time by mode of transport equally, the motorway construction Bypass Stockholm had a very poor net present value ratio – it was not in practice a socially profitable project. However, in 2012 the calculation model was recalculated so that the time in the car was greatly upgraded at the expense of public transport. As in a magic act, Bypass Stockholm became economically profitable and received a completely different net present value ratio. This is a concrete example of the fact that these calculations obviously have a very important political significance. Thankfully, they are not the only basis that exists, but I would say that it is perhaps the most important basis that exists when political decisions are made. I don't understand why we should count a lost hour as much more worth in your own car than when you travel collectively. You don't do that in other countries. Why are we doing this? And why should we value men's time more than women's time if we compare travel with car and public transport? I do not think that I have received clear answers from the Minister here. I look forward to the assignment given by the Minister to the Finnish Transport Administration. In just over a week's time, the Swedish Transport Administration will hopefully present new calculations, where the environment and climate will be evaluated. I very much hope that we can have a planning that governs on the basis of our environmental and climate goals and other important targets rather than based on forecasts based on increased driving. Thank you for this debate.
i-4b7e480337da633c-729	Madam President, I would like That's exactly right. As I have said before, the starting point for the government is the transport policy objectives, the climate change we are facing and the clear assignments to the Finnish Transport Agency that I have referred to. The Finnish Transport Agency also has to constantly evaluate and change calculation models based on what should be scientifically relevant and that is effective and internationally validated, one might say. I note that Jens Holm chooses the arguments when they fit best. Obviously, those calculations were absolutely decisive for the decision on Bypass Stockholm, but the same calculations formed the basis for the decision that meant that we included Norrbotniabanan in national planes and other investments. I think that in itself it shows that it is not only a basis for decision, but rather a balanced assessment. That is what politics is about: to make a balanced assessment on the basis of several different bases of what is actually best for the country's development. It is about keeping the country together, pursuing transport policy objectives and managing climate change. It will be an absolutely crucial factor when we look at future infrastructure initiatives together with socio-economic and gender aspects. This country must be able to stick together, and we must realise that there is reason to develop mobility and mobility throughout the country. I do not believe that my political objective is significantly different from that of Jens Holm on this issue. Instead, let us make sure that we have a joint discussion so that more actors realise that the infrastructure needs to be developed, not least on the basis of the goal that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country! Let us become fossil-free, not just in the big cities, but throughout the country! It is about that there will be the right investments in Västerbottens inland and in Småland, from which I come.
