i-17b66b4387283a6a-7	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me. Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me whether I will work for the government to vote against the European Commission's proposal if fossil-free electricity production and bioenergy are not classified as sustainable in the taxonomy regulation. I will answer the three questions together. The answer to Edward Riedl's first question is no. Of course, I do not think that natural gas is more green or environmentally friendly than hydropower. What the Commission is now trying to do is in itself a major challenge. It is about setting technical criteria for when an activity can be considered sustainable from a climate perspective and at the same time does not have a significant negative impact on other environmental objectives. Taxonomin comes first to be binary, that is, an activity is classified as either green or not green. Electricity generation using hydroelectric power and natural gas can both become taxonomy green activities, but it is significantly more difficult for electricity generation using natural gas to get there. As regards Edward Riedl's second question, I have a little question as to what action is being taken. The Government has been acting for a long time to ensure that sustainability issues play a central role in the development of financial markets. It has been one of Parliament's decided objectives for the policy area for many years. Sweden has also been one of the most driving countries in that this should also be the case within the EU. The government has thus also supported the work of developing a European taxonomy. However, the process of defining the technical selection criteria is the Commission's responsibility. It has been a long process in which the Commission is now in the final phase. The Government intends, of course, to submit comments both through the open consultation which is currently under way and in the committee in which the Member States are represented. Jessica Rosencrantz's question is too early. There is still considerable scope to influence the design of the technical criteria before decisions are taken. The Government Office is still analysing the Commission's proposal. M a m in starting point is to act objectively for change in line with Swedish interests and positions in the same way that Sweden has acted successfully in the negotiations before. The transition to sustainable development is absolutely essential. That is the government's conviction. The government will continue to act if the Commission makes positions which may be called into question by the framework set out in the regulation or if the Commission makes different interpretations than those envisaged by the Member States with the taxonomy regulation, i.e. if taxonomy risks being counterproductive in changing society towards sustainable development. As the interpellants reported that they were prevented from attending the meeting, the third vice-president admitted that Lars Hjälmered and Jan Ericson were instead allowed to receive the Government's interpellation responses.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-15	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I thank you for the opportunity to have a debate on the important issue of taxonomy. What we are discussing, Madam President, is a kind of classification of companies and businesses – whether they are to be considered sustainable or not sustainable. In this way, funding opportunities can be affected; it can be more expensive for something that is considered non-sustainable. What we are talking about now, both in the Swedish parliament and in the public debate at large, is the Swedish electricity and energy system: Should nuclear power, hydropower, biomass and other things be considered sustainable or not? Depending on the result, it can affect not only the activities of an energy company but, of course, its customers as well. If, for example, a real estate company chooses to purchase hydroelectric power and the European Commission, supported by the Swedish Government, is considered non-sustainable, the real estate company's activities may also be affected. The company can get more expensive lending and less opportunities, and it is the same for other entrepreneurship in Sweden. I will make it clear that the Moderates have no objection to the ambition to work with growth and conversion, classification and sustainability. For us, the long-term vision is to combine clear, powerful economic development with a green transition. That is why we are talking a lot about how worrying it is about the electricity crises we have in the country and about the importance of changing, not least, the industry and the transport sector. However, what is up for discussion now, in selected parts, is how to rate electricity and energy when you have here and now proposals on the table concerning hydropower and biomass – and later on things related to nuclear power and other parts of the energy system. Not only are the Moderates concerned, but others, widely in society, are concerned about what is now on the table. One example is the forest owners in Sweden, who express deep concern about what is now on the table regarding biomass and that forestry in Sweden can be classified as untenable despite the fact that it is otherwise cherished as green gold. Property owners are another organization that expresses the same thing. The basic point here is that Sweden has the EU's cleanest electricity system, Madam President. It is the purest thing in Europe. I checked yesterday afternoon, and then the emissions were 42 grams for each kilowatt hour produced in Sweden. In Belgium it was 333 grams, and in Poland it was 546. At the same time, over 90 per cent of Swedish electricity production yesterday afternoon was fossil-free, while only one third were in Belgium and Poland. And then we have what we are discussing now. We thus have a foundation in Sweden, historically of nuclear and hydro power, and in recent decades of an emerging cogeneration and wind power, which has provided reasonable prices and security of supply with historically low emissions – not least when compared with the continent, where much of this is at risk. I have three questions for the Government. The first is that there has been a discussion in the Riksdag where the Riksdag has demanded that the Government provide a technology-neutral solution. Now we can see that solar power and wind power were removed in advance, and then it is not technology neutral. I therefore wonder how the Government sees the question of whether he has fulfilled his mandate. The second issue is that there was a so-called expert group meeting in Brussels on 25 November, Madam President. There, Minister Bolund's representative put forward a technical point of view on forests, but no views whatsoever were put forward to protect the Swedish hydropower or biomass. I wonder why Minister Bolund instructed the official to run that line in Brussels. Finally, Madam President, on Thursday 10 December, the next expert group meeting will be held. What is the mandate? Is the Government prepared to make this public to Parliament, the media and the public, so that we know what line he and the government are taking in Brussels?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-25	Madam President, I would like I accept the answer on behalf of Edward Riedl. In his interpellation, he asks a very legitimate question about a concrete industry – hydropower – linked to natural gas. The mere fact that hydropower can be treated as less sustainable than natural gas shows how strange the EU proposal is. But it is not just hydropower that is affected, but we have received quite a lot of wording from different industries in recent weeks. I can mention the forestry industry, the IT sector, the automotive industry, the real estate sector, the biofuel producers, the waste incineration industry, nuclear power, the mining industry and the steel mills. It is only some of the sectors that would be affected by this taxonomy proposal. I am also very concerned about the attitude of the government, most recently in the Committee on Finance, when Secretary of State Ulf Holm was there with his non-political officials. Among other things, this was repeated on a voluntary basis – this is not mandatory, but every company does as it pleases. Yes, you do, but just as Lars Helmered has shown here, the very idea is that it should go down the food chain. It ends up at the end of the little forest owner out in the woods, the small individual firm with its own forest. If you do not meet all these requirements, no sawmill will want to buy the timber to in turn deliver to someone else who is certified. This always affects the last, smallest trader, at the bottom of the food chain. I was also a little concerned when I heard both Ulf Holm and his officials say that this would be a great advantage for Sweden. This was said in conclusion in the Committee on Finance, after the whole committee expressed its great concern about how this will affect Swedish business. Then we get the answer from the officials: this is great for Sweden. It makes me very worried if this is something that permeates the attitude of the department and the Government Office on this issue when you go down to Brussels – this is great for Sweden, and we take it straight off. That's the feeling you get. The whole idea of allowing some countries to punish other countries' commercial activities by a majority decision in Brussels is fundamentally unreasonable. Then it is very important that you have a government that is really active and committed to this issue and takes it seriously. There I feel a great deal of anxiety; we do that on the moderate side. I will come back with more on taxonomy in my own interpellation then, but I would now like to ask the Government whether he believes that the government has really done everything possible on this issue and whether it has committed itself sufficiently along the way. Does State Secretary Ulf Holm and his officials share the view that this is fundamentally great for Sweden? Ulf Holm's own officials seem very pleased with this proposal. If you are so satisfied with the proposal, it is difficult to see that the government would put some strength and energy behind trying to change it. We can start the debate there.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your contributions to the debate. Let us begin by stating something on which we should nevertheless be able to agree: this is the Commission's proposal. They are the ones who have held the pen and written the taxonomy proposal. The government is now in a consultation phase, i.e. the Commission has contacted all governments and also all other stakeholders in the EU to be able to express their views and influence the proposal. I'm genuinely worried about the Moderate attitude. It sounds like this has already been decided and it is already decided how taxonomics should be designed. From the government's side, we're not turned out that way. I am sorry if the opposition has already taken this attitude. I do not think this will lead the work forward in the way that is needed. It is very important that, as we have done throughout this journey, we continue to come in with Sweden's views. We have also been doing this for quite a long time when taxonomics has been in the process of being developed. We have also been in close contact with Parliament and the opposition all along. The mandates that Sweden brings forward during negotiations in the EU have, of course, been discussed with the opposition and the entire parliament. I would like to point out that this is now in a consultation phase. It is possible for anyone who has views on taxonomy, the proposals and the technical regulations to now summarise their views and bring them to the Commission. In this way you can make your voice heard and influence this decision in the direction you think is needed. As I said, we have had a rather long process, and during that process we have had an anchor not only with the Riksdag but also with many other actors. We have a reference group with over 100 different participants, with whom we are constantly discussing taxonomy and from which we also receive feedback. These are, of course, points of view which we then add to the response given by the government to the Commission. The high tone that is already evident in this debate can be called into question from that perspective. That tone might be saved for communication with the Commission in order to influence the proposal that it now has on the table and that we have the opportunity to influence forward. Of course, the government has a mandate that we have discussed with the Riksdag. There is no doubt that the government has put forward these mandates; that is precisely the intention of the mandates endorsed by the Parliament. These mandates have also influenced the Commission's proposal. There are, for example, clear wordings on technology neutrality in the proposal that is now before us. On the other hand, it is perhaps to be a little quick to jump to the only way to follow a mandate is that it gets exactly the impression that the Moderates themselves want in the final proposal, which is obviously produced with the input and views of many different countries. The Parliament cannot give the government a mandate that will be implemented with 100% certainty in the EU documents that come forward, exactly as the Moderates expected. By now, the Moderates are well aware that the EU system is based on bringing forward the views of their countries and then a proposal that balances these different opinions with each other. That is obviously the case in this case as well. Perhaps I do not think that Edward Riedl's feeling is telling the truth. The government has been active throughout this process, and we have put forward very clear positions. They have also changed this proposal positively, from Sweden's point of view. There are still parts that we need to influence, and the government's attitude is that we should influence them. We haven't given up, and I hope the Moderates haven't.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-40	Madam President, I would like My ambition ahead is that we for Sweden should see clear and powerful economic development and that we combine this with a long-term green transition to sustainability. I am convinced that this will require a great deal, including the need to use significantly more electricity in Sweden to switch, not least, industry and transport. Then we really need to use all the fossil-free power types we have in Sweden: nuclear power, hydroelectric power, wind power and everything else. The government thinks it's dystopian. I can honestly say that I am concerned about what is now on the table. I am also concerned about the rather lax attitude of the Government and the Government towards such a proposal, which is very far-reaching. Seriously – what we are discussing can in practice mean that all Swedish hydropower and biomass can be classified as non-sustainable. That is really what we are talking about, and it has very far-reaching effects. Madam President, I would like In an interview on 19 November, Minister Bolund says that Sweden has taken an active role in the negotiations to influence the design. I wonder in what way the Government believes that it has taken that role and can influence successfully in order to actually protect Swedish interests. The Government is also committed to the mandate between the Riksdag and the Government. In the spring, I think it was, the Center Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates formed a majority and gave a mandate to Bolund and the other government to vote against the regulation that lies at the heart of this – simply because our four parties had gathered views and did not share the view on sustainable forestry. These are criticisms that we in the Moderates are now clearly following up. This is not something that we only say, but the forest industries are very clear when they point in their summary to how this can endanger much of the Swedish forest industry, which, they themselves say, bases their production on basically fossil-free processes. They can then be classified as non-sustainable. The forestry industry goes on to say: on the other hand, the Commission's proposal allows companies using fossil raw materials to be classified as sustainable by including a smaller share of renewable raw materials. This sums up some of the tricky things on the part of the Commission, which makes not only the Moderates but broad interests of society react to this. That brings me, Madam President, to the three issues that I raised in my first speech and which I am happy to repeat. There has been a discussion in the Riksdag, where it became clear that technology neutrality is what the government has to stick to as a guide in this work. I sent a written question to the Minister just a week ago, and the Minister said in these negotiations we have heard for several important issues, for Sweden, such as a high environmental ambition, technology neutrality, predictable rules for renewable electricity generation. At the same time, we see that this bill is not fundamentally technology neutral. I wonder what basis the Government has for its claim. Then, Madam President, I would like to come back to the expert group meeting on 25 November, when Minister Bolund's representative at a meeting – it was probably not in Brussels but in a webinarium, I think – had a point of view on a criterion about the forest but otherwise did not speak at all for Swedish hydropower and Swedish biomass. I repeat my question: why did the Government mandate the official to pursue this line in Brussels? Thirdly, there is an expert group meeting on Thursday, 10 December, Nobel Day. I wonder what the mandate in Brussels is like this time. Is the Government prepared to make this public to Parliament, the media and the public, so that property owners, energy companies and others know in detail what line they intend to take in Brussels on Thursday?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-49	Madam President, I would like I note that both the Government and the Secretary of State – the Secretary of State was in the Finance Committee earlier today – make it very clear that this is indeed not the government's question but the Commission's question. Then I'll be a little concerned too. During the alliance years, when we had important and difficult European issues, our government took the lead in trying to hear Swedish positions in Brussels. In fact, it is the government that governs Sweden, and it is the government that represents Sweden and Swedish interests. It cannot be said that this is just the Commission's proposal, but it must be influenced in the meantime. The question is how we got here at all. It is clear that the tone is high. When you take part of all the despaired and anxious letters from different industries in Sweden and hear how they view this and how it could affect their industries, when you realize what a hard blow this can be to the Swedish energy supply and when you realize how hard this can hit Swedish jobs and the Swedish economy you actually get worried. Then you raise the tone, and it's quite natural, I think. This is an extremely serious issue. As I said to a colleague before: I have been in Parliament for 14 years now, and I never think I have been involved in an issue that can have such huge consequences for so much of the Swedish business community at the same time. This issue must be taken very seriously. When the previous decision was taken, as Lars Helmered and also the Government mentioned, Sweden was the only country that voted against. It was because we were then a number of parties that pushed through the government's position. Then we were alone in Brussels. There were some countries that abstained – I think there were four – but only Sweden voted against. It was, of course, precisely there that the government would have worked hard to build alliances. Now it's five to twelve. Had a majority then said no to this regulation, there would not have been any of it. But they didn't. Then the question is: how does the Government now intend to turn this around? As I said, it's five to twelve. On 18 December is the last day to come forward with comments on this, and we have now had very little time to react to this, and the same applies to the industries. Then we will get the rather ludicrous answer that anyone can send comments to the European Commission! That's not how it works. It is the government that must do this. It is the government that has the mandate, the power and the political power behind it to actually influence the proposal. That is why I would like to repeat Lars Helmered's question: what is the government's agenda now, and what is the mandate for those who are going to negotiate and take the discussion now on Thursday? We're all very interested in that.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-57	Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is urgent that we now try to influence this proposal. I have been very clear about this also in my speech and all the time in communication. There are elements in this that the government believes we need to adjust, and we will also work actively to do so. There has been no doubt about it at all. I hope that it has also emerged to the gentlemen in this debate. It seems that you do not really want to listen to that ear. If one boasts that it was such a good step that a majority in the Riksdag, including the Moderates, decided that Sweden would vote against taxonomy, one might ask: If it was such an effective tool to use, why has the proposal not improved? After all, it was the majority in Parliament that decided that we should vote no. Countries such as Poland and Hungary abstained. I would like to say that the line taken by the government, which is about constantly entering into discussions with the Commission, bringing forward Sweden's line and discussing the issues at stake, is the constructive way forward. As I said, we have also managed to bring about changes that have led in the right direction. I find the description of Sweden's actions rather offensive. It is suggested, for example, that we should not put forward the mandates that we have established in Parliament. That is completely wrong. It would be misconduct if it had happened, but it has not happened. So you can take that out of your mind right away. It is important that we have a taxonomy at EU level — and that we have a driving force for investments made at EU level to be directed towards what is sustainable, not least in order for energy systems and other systems in the rest of the EU to also be turned towards what Sweden was now about to do. We have changed because we have always been incredibly active and pushed for sustainable investment. It also needs to be done by Hungary, Poland and other countries now in order for us, together at European level, to meet the objectives that we have jointly endorsed. I think it is dangerous to do as Lars Hjälmered and highlight an individual meeting and speech from Sweden in the long discussion on taxonomy that has been and say that it is Sweden's entire position on these issues. Such a view of Sweden's actions is completely wrong. We have not been content to present our views at a single meeting at a single time, but we have done so consistently throughout the journey. We have also made changes, for example, that it should apply to all financial products and not just some – not just those that are most environmentally oriented. As far as bioenergy is concerned, we have been given a reference to it being in line with the Renewable Energy Directive, which not only concerns bioenergy but all renewable energy, such as hydropower. It is aimed at enabling us to use renewable energy sources. We have also pushed hard for technology neutrality, for all technologies to be assessed on the same basis. Sweden has acted constantly and consistently. We have also made changes in taxonomics. We are also focusing on this in the future. In this debate, the Moderates forget that there are many parts of Swedish business that are going in this direction and are looking for investment funds to take the new steps forward – the steps that make Sweden an even more sustainable country. We have, for example, the Hybrid project, Steel without Coal, which is highlighted by the President of the European Commission as an example in the State of the European Union. We have one of Europe's largest battery plants to be built outside Skellefteå. This type of investment will be facilitated by redirecting investment funds towards sustainable investment. That is what the government is focusing on, and we will also be reconnecting this with the Commission.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-67	Madam President, I would like I have to say, there's a bit of a bit of a falsification around here right now. We have a rather satisfied minister who talks about how amazing this is. At the same time, we know that it is not only political opposition parties in this and future debates, but also numerous companies and professional organisations that express enormous concern. For example, property owners note that the Commission's proposal imposes higher and stricter environmental requirements on old houses than on newly built houses. It is said that this could jeopardise the financing of the entire real estate sector in a worrying way. The forest industries say this: a clear paradox is that activities that have come a long way in reducing the climate load are disadvantaged, while activities with a high climate load are already rewarded in the case of small improvements. ..................................................... At the same time, the Government is satisfied and talks about the Swedish Government's success in this. Allow me to doubt. The Government says that the Government has views and that it intends to work actively. The only problem is that the general public does not know what mandate and what line Minister Bolund has. I specifically referred to a meeting in Brussels, one of the most important meetings at the end. The mandate given by the Government and the Government to officials at this meeting was not to say anything at all. They have not said anything about Swedish hydropower and biomass. Then it does not hold that, in interviews and in the media, a minister of state claims to be running something when, in fact, responsibility is not really taken on the floor in Brussels. That's not good enough! This is a series of meetings. December 10th, Thursday, is the next meeting. Then the question is: what is the mandate then? Is the Government prepared to make this public, so that next time there is no doubt as to why you do not choose to protect Swedish hydropower and biomass? Or do you specifically choose this time to give a mandate to an official to do so?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-72	Madam President, I would like One can always discuss whether it is right to vote 'no' or to vote 'yes'. We often do this when it comes to European issues. But I find it very difficult to see that something would have been better if we had said yes to this directly. The idea of saying no is that it should spark discussion, that we should strengthen the government and that we should give the government a strong mandate from the Swedish parliament: You must oppose this. That is why we have the European Council. That is why we are sitting there from all the committees. We are doing this in order to give the government a hard back and a strong mandate in the negotiations. I hear the Prime Minister boasting that there has been an ongoing discussion with the Commission – that is the successful way forward – and some kind of quiet diplomacy or what to call it. It's binding. Then I ask the question: If the government claims that there have been successful discussions, why does the proposal that is now on the table look so bad for Sweden? In any case, this suggests that the Swedish side has gone a long way wrong in the negotiations. The government's shaking its head, but it's a fact. The Government says that we have had good and successful discussions with the Commission. The Commission then presents the proposal which is now on the table, which concerns large parts of Swedish industry and which threatens our energy supply. Yet the Government claims that there have been successful discussions. That doesn't make any sense. You have failed, and the whole picture you get is that the government is quite awkward on European issues. The EU budget was not very successful, and it has failed on this issue. The very idea of having a government that is down in Brussels and that goes down and talks with representatives of the EU is to represent Sweden and Swedish interests. Again, I wonder: How does Minister Bolund intend to turn this around now, five to twelve?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-79	Madam President, I would like If the gentlemen have not taken note of this, I can say that it is a proposal from the Commission which is now being consulted, as they call it. There is therefore a possibility of still influencing the proposal and giving its views. That is what the government is fully focused on, just as we have been during the rest of this process. I would really like to address everyone who listens to this debate. I hope that more people will be in touch with the Commission and put forward their positions. We in the Government have established our positions in the Swedish Parliament throughout this process, and it is the Riksdag that has supported the positions that the Government has pursued. Of course, we have pushed those positions also in the negotiations that have been. I'm paying attention to Jan Ericson's values. It is easy to stand and say that he knew exactly what it would have looked like if Sweden had not acted. But it is certainly clear that we have managed to influence the proposal in the right direction. However, it is no secret that we too think that changes need to be made to the proposal. That is what we are going to bring forward. Of course, discussions are now taking place with the Commission. We are trying to get answers to a lot of questions that exist. It is a document covering 600 pages. Of course, there are things that we need to get clarified about. But on 18 December, next Friday, Sweden will give a clear response to the Commission with comments on what needs to be changed for Sweden. We will also have communication with the Commission and make clear what we think needs to be changed in taxonomy. I hope that we can try to work together in the Swedish Parliament to put forward such positions together. I don't think anyone benefits from having a squabble in the Swedish Parliament. I do not think that would move the issue forward. It is by acting together for the best in Sweden that we can achieve the best possible results. Then I would like the Moderates to actually look into this and analyse what they think needs to be changed. Then we can work together to make the Commission's taxonomy even better than it is today.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-84	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has asked five questions about the EU's taxonomy for sustainability. Jan Ericson has asked four questions about the EU taxonomy. I will answer these questions together. In view of Jan Ericson's first question, I would like to make it clear that taxonomy is a regulation for financial products aimed at identifying and comparing economic activities, which facilitates the necessary transition to a sustainable economy. The question of whether nuclear power can be considered sustainable is not yet settled. It is currently being investigated by the Commission's Joint Research Centre. The Commission's ambition is to reach a decision with a view to adopting delegated acts on the other sustainability objectives, and the issue is therefore not under discussion at the moment. On Jan Ericson's question whether I think Swedish forestry is important, the answer is obviously yes. We have been very active on this issue and we will continue to be so. Sweden has been very active on these issues in the EU for a long time, and I see it as an important success for Sweden in the EU that sustainability has become part of the EU's Capital Markets Union. On Joar Forssell's first question, what I intend to do to influence the European Commission, I can reply that, of course, we have been active and in the future intend to both send written comments and have direct contact with the Commission on the delegated act on taxonomy. On Joar Forssell's question whether I believe that Sweden should assist the Commission with competence is my obvious answer, yes, and that applies regardless of the area. The answer to Joar Forssell's last question, whether we should try to influence the Commission in the right direction based on Sweden's view of sustainability, is that we should of course put forward the positions that are anchored in the Riksdag. On the other hand, Jan Ericson's final question, whether the government is prepared to vote against the Commission's proposal for a delegated act, is premature. There is still considerable scope for influencing the final delegated act before decisions are taken. The government is still analysing the proposal. M in starting point is to act objectively for change in line with Swedish interests and positions in the same way that Sweden has acted successfully in the negotiations before. The transition to sustainable development is absolutely essential; it is the government's conviction. The government will continue to act if the Commission takes positions that may be called into question by the framework set out in the regulation or if the Commission makes different interpretations than the Member States intended by the taxonomy regulation, for example if taxonomy risks being counterproductive in the process of changing society towards sustainable development.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to begin by asking the Council of State not to call the questions of the opposition and of this House to the Council and the Government for bickering, as the Council of State said earlier in the debate, or to accuse us of opposing the Commission's proposal for sustainability. The government accused me of that this morning on a debate page. It is clear to all who follow the Swedish climate debate that the Liberals are a party that believes that the EU should take a very large responsibility in climate policy. It is also clear, Madam President, that we agree that it is the Commission's proposal that we are debating – this has come back to several times. But it is not just the Commission's proposal. I think we can also agree that what we are debating here in Parliament is how the government acts in relation to the Commission's proposal. I would like to quote from Per Bolund's article in Today's industry this morning, where he apostrophes me. Like all stakeholders, Mats and Joar also have the opportunity to submit their comments to the Commission via their website. If you can't find the link, let me know. This applies to Mats Persson, my fellow Member of Parliament, and me, Joar Forssell. Madam President, I would like In addition to the fact that it's a strange appeal from a minister, I appreciate that Per feels like he's on a first name basis with me and Mats. But it is clear that, Madam President, it also reflects some of the laxity that we believe the government has had in dealing with this particular issue. I can mention a few things. Yes, as the Government says, we are free to submit our comments via the Commission's website. But it is also the case – we can agree on that – that the government represents Sweden, and the Riksdag represents the Swedish people. The government sits on its mandate at the mercy of the Riksdag. We Members of Parliament are here to represent the people, and together we will speak against the EU in Sweden. It is clear that as a citizen of Sweden I can also send various questions to the Commission, but it must ultimately be Per Bolunds and the government's task to represent Sweden in the European Commission's processes. Madam President, I would like It is claimed from the government that this would be technology neutral because, according to Per Bolund, the word has been written in a number of places in this document. Allow me to doubt that this is enough for something to be technology neutral! The major problem, for example, is that nuclear power is completely excluded from the document. It's not technology neutral. It's extremely blue-eyed to think it's technology neutral just because you've written that word. Madam President, I would like We have also had to say on several occasions that taxonomics does not concern a restricted area. It is extremely far-reaching, and it will be normative for everything we call sustainable in the debate. Madam President, the government has not been able to respond to this before. How do you see that taxonomics will make an extremely large impact on the overall sustainability work? Does the government still see this document that we are discussing as technology neutral? Last but not least: Does Per Bolund mean that he is a representative of the whole of Sweden and will lead Sweden's work when it comes to influencing the Commission in this, or should I do it myself?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-104	Madam President, I would like I would also like to start with a clear statement to call a debate in the Swedish Parliament bickering. In fact, I find it disrespectful to democracy and would therefore like to agree with Joar Forssell's criticism. Madam President, I would like The Government's answer to my first question in the interpellation seems to me to show that he does not understand the seriousness. During Question Time on 26 November, Minister Bolund answered a question from a Christian Democrat Member: It is about classifying which investments are considered green from the point of view of the financial market. But nothing prohibits investments or measures in forestry, for example. ..................................................... As I write in my interpellation, the Government's response during Question Time breathes an inability to see what these regulations will actually bring in every stage of the forest industry. Any major forest company that wants to be certified as sustainable will refrain from buying timber from suppliers that do not comply with EU requirements. Every small sawmill will refrain from buying wood from individual forest owners who do not meet the requirements, because then you cannot deliver it to the larger companies. That's how it's gonna work. The EU standard will be propagated at each stage down to the small forest farmer, at the bottom of the chain, who runs small-scale forestry. He will simply not be able to sell his timber if he does not comply with the EU standard. To do this, consultants who cost money are likely to need help. You need to draw up more plans, you may need to be certified and you will be forced to a lot of administration that costs time and money. There is also a risk that forestry cannot be managed in the way it is used but is forced to change this in accordance with EU requirements. I find it hard to believe that the Government does not realise this, because I know that Per Bolund is passionate about the Swedish forestry industry and thinks it is an important part of the Swedish eco-friendly industry. It is therefore very strange that he does not want to indicate that this European norm and taxonomy will permeate the forestry industry at all levels and that he gives this answer during Question Time. It may be reasonable that the regulatory framework covers all industries throughout the chain if it is well balanced and adapted to Swedish conditions, but not if it is designed as this proposal looks like. The answer here worries me, just as I mentioned in a previous interpellation. That is exactly the same answer that we received from Ulf Holm on the Finance Committee today: that this is not mandatory but voluntary. However, it will not be voluntary in practice, and that is exactly what the forestry industry is presenting in its very worried letters to the government and to us MPs – that this puts the entire Swedish forestry industry at risk. The government answers three of my questions but not the first one. So I would like to repeat that question: what did he really mean by his answer that no one is forced to comply with the rules? Does he really not realize what the effects of what is being proposed will be on the small forest owner? I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Government whether he himself has taken note of the referrals from the Forest Industries.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-112	Madam President, I would like When I was talking about a squabble, it was just about the kind of judgments that Joar Forssell comes up with when he calls the government's actions lax and so on. I do not think that is something that belongs in a debate like this in Parliament. Joar Forssell has absolutely no evidence of that, and he has no reason whatsoever to say anything like that. There is nothing right in that statement. To insinuate, as in the article, that I and the Green Party would have acted to implement this at European level against Parliament's will or the like, is also not what I would regard as a constructive tone that brings the debate forward and that allows us to arrive at common positions. That's what we need to do: We need to find out together how Sweden will respond to this consultation and what views Sweden will come in with. Precisely representing Sweden and Swedish interests is what I and the government have been focused on all the time during the process, and that is what I will continue to do. Joar Forssell does not seem to have really understood how the process is done. It is clear that nuclear power is neither excluded nor included, but work is now under way on nuclear power at European level, as I also said very early in my speech at the beginning: It is currently being investigated by the Commission's Joint Research Centre. Then this will come back with comments, proposals and analyses, and then we will have a better basis for taking a position on it at European level as well. So the question is simply not settled, and I hope that Joar Forssell will now respect that. Jan Ericson draws very many sure conclusions from how exactly this proposal will affect in every detail and down to every actor in Sweden. I think maybe it's being a little too ambitious in your reasonings. What we know is that this is a framework for the financial market in order for us at European level to be able to determine which investments are sustainable and not. I stand by the fact that this is a major step forward in enabling the EU to jointly identify which investments lead to sustainability and which also lead to the objectives that the EU has jointly set around reducing our climate impact and becoming a sustainable Union actually being followed up with concrete measures. Then there is, and I hope Jan Ericson will also agree, that this is not a ban. It is not a question of banning one particular activity and allowing another activity, but of defining guidelines and frameworks at European level for investment by classifying whether they are green or not. The government has, of course, conducted a close dialogue with the Commission, and we have also conducted a close dialogue in Sweden. We have had a reference group which has also constantly expressed its views on the work of the government. We have taken a great deal of help from this, and it has also led us to put forward the positions we have taken at European level. We continue to engage in dialogue with all the sectors concerned. I was only yesterday in direct contact with the LRF to hear their views on taxonomy, and we will continue to take their views into account. The final part of the consultation is now under way. We have received a proposal from the Commission, and we have been clear that we will be putting forward Sweden's positions on what needs to be changed in the proposal that is now on the table of the government and that the EU will decide in the future. There we will of course also take in the views of various actors in Sweden, because we are obviously committed and want to put forward an approach that leads to the best possible results for Sweden's development and so that we can continue to be at the forefront. I think it is important that the Liberals and the Moderates understand that what is on the table is a proposal and that it is not decided. There are opportunities to influence, and that is what we should focus our energy on now.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-123	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, where some parts are quite astounding. I would like to say once again that the first point on which we are critical is that of Per Bolunds and the Government's reluctance to represent Sweden properly in these processes. The second point is this about technology neutrality. It is true, as Per Bolund says, that nuclear power can then be lifted in – absolutely. But it is not technologically neutral to pick it out at an early stage, because that is actually what has happened. They have picked out the type of energy that may have the greatest potential of all types of energy to help change so that we get a fossil-free electricity production, something that we need, of course, if we are to switch to electrification and so on. The Commission has done so on the grounds that there has not been enough research evidence on how to deal with nuclear power. There, the Liberals have repeatedly pointed out to Per Bolund in interpellations and written questions that the Commission is asking for – including an expert group; several hundred researchers have said that they have not found the expertise – there is in Sweden. We from the Liberals have raised this question to Per Bolund and wondered why Sweden does not stand up, why Per Bolund or any employee does not call their counterparts in the Commission and say that the competence exists, that we stand up and help. Per Bolund says in the debate today that the government will of course contribute with knowledge. It hasn't sounded like that before. It is because it has been lax to assist with Swedish competence that nuclear power has been lifted out, and that is why we have come to this point. Madam President, I would like For those who follow the energy debate, it is clear that the argument that competence can be lifted in later that comes back from the government is a pretext. It is clear that competence can be technically lifted in later, so the process works, but all of us who are in politics know that it is clearly much easier to get into something that is part of a whole right from the start in a negotiation also with countries that have a more sceptical view of nuclear power than we have. Madam President, I would like Let me mention something more that I think has been lax on the part of the government, namely the reactions to what has been presented by the Commission. The Austrian Government reacted very strongly. It also says to read in our interpellation. I hope Per Bolund has read it. It is also open to those who watch the debate to read the interpellation. The Austrian Government has reacted very strongly to the content of the document presented by the Commission. The Swedish Government has repeatedly said that it follows the question, that it keeps up with what is happening and that it finds out what is happening. Per Bolund himself said earlier that the government officials attended today's meeting of the Finance Committee, and they said that they were getting into the document. It's a big document, and they haven't had a chance to read it through. Madam President, I would like It's about 600 pages. It's about the same size as Harry Potter and the prisoner from Azkaban. The Austrian Government has been crystal clear in its criticism. We may not agree with exactly all the elements of that criticism – Sweden might not make the same criticism – but it has dared to take a stand and has dared to shoulder the responsibility as the citizens' representative towards the process. We must have such a system in place. This is extremely important for sustainability, but then the system must also be in the right shape. Why have we not provided our expertise? Why have we not taken responsibility in the process?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-132	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell points out one important point, that a number of the companies and professional organisations concerned have already familiarised themselves with the large document and written referrals to the government. At the same time, we are hearing in the Committee on Finance that the government is getting to grips with the issue. That's remarkable. I note that the Council of State is clearly unable to explain what he meant by the answer to Question Time on 26 November. He still says that it is not a ban. Well, in practice, that's exactly the way it is. Do you not understand the full connection of such a regulatory framework, how it reproduces throughout the business community and how suppliers are affected when they supply each other, and how consumers are affected when they buy products from different companies, that it is the idea of the whole taxonomy? It becomes mandatory at every stage of the entire food chain, from the large listed company down to the smallest small forest owner or supplier in any other industry. Yet Minister Bolund says that it is not mandatory, that you can do what you want. You can't, because then you can't sell your products. If you do not understand this connection from the beginning, you have lost the whole debate and all your arguments. I note that protests against the current proposal come not only from the forestry industry, but also from a whole range of sectors. It is the forest industry, the IT sector, hydroelectric power, the automotive industry, the real estate sector, biofuel producers, waste incineration, nuclear power, mining, steel plants and some other industries. In addition, there is another joke in the game, namely the large recovery fund in the EU. It is also said that it should be used for environmental and sustainable investments. I would like to put a specific question to Minister Bolund: will taxonomy rules also govern the recovery fund and how that money is paid out? If that is the case, Sweden may miss out on a lot of that money too. I and Minister Bolund can disagree on a lot, but we can probably agree on one thing, namely that Swedish hydropower cannot be considered as non-sustainable while the use of natural gas can be considered sustainable. Swedish forestry, one of our greenest future industries, cannot be disqualified as non-sustainable. Those proposals are simply a hole in the head. I expect Minister Bolund and the Swedish Government to really act vigorously so as not to turn their backs on business, energy supply and Swedish jobs. But I get a little worried when the government says there's plenty of time to influence. So what's the department's agenda? It seems very unclear, not least after today's hearing in the Finance Committee when Ulf Holm preferred the questions. One of his own officials almost gave a tribute speech to taxonomy and said that it is great for Sweden. With this attitude when you go to Brussels, that taxonomy is great for Sweden, how can you turn the proposal and change it? I don't know how it's gonna work. One must at least want, and one must understand what the proposal actually means. I appeal to Per Bolund to try to spread knowledge within his own department about what the proposal really means. Read the proposal and have an agenda to act for the good of Sweden.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-141	Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that Joar Forssell nevertheless notes that a taxonomy at EU level has value and that it brings the environmental issue forward. That's not what we're hearing from Jan Ericson. It is perhaps not surprising because Jan Ericson has devoted much of his political work to counteracting any environmental proposal that has come up on the table of Parliament. I can put the question back: does Jan Ericson agree with what Joar Forssell has just said in the speaker's chair, namely that taxonomy is nevertheless a step in the right direction to ensure that there is investment in sustainable investments, that is, what is needed to achieve a sustainable climate and a sustainable environment? It would be valuable to have it clarified on Jan Ericson's part. Joar Forssell continues to make judgments that have absolutely no bearing on the reality that the government would not have acted forcefully and the like. That's not true. We can have different views at party political level about which type of energy has the greatest potential or not, but I would say that what we are seeing in Sweden right now is that wind power, in which there is a lot of investment and which means that there is a large electricity surplus in Sweden, is the type of investment we want to see more of. We are moving towards a renewable electricity system. It is important to speak on the basis of knowledge and not on the basis of unsubstantiated value assessments. It doesn't move things forward. It is then a little remarkable to refer to a quote in a newspaper and thus conclude that other governments are acting more forcefully or have a clearer position on the matter than what the Swedish government has. Of course that's not true. We put forward Sweden's positions at every meeting we have with the EU, and that is of course how we act. It is a bit remarkable to ralli in the way that Joar Forssell does by comparing 600 pages of EU report with Harry Potter, that is, an EU report is as easy to read as squeezing through a youth novel. The government, unlike many other actors, has to make an overall assessment. We must look at the whole, every part of the document, and make comments on things we do not share with the European Commission. I can turn the question back: has Joar Forssell read these 600 pages and learned every detail in the smallest part in order to be able to make an overall assessment of the document? I doubt that. Jan Ericson asks if taxonomy rules will govern the recovery fund. It is a question that is very clearly too early raised because taxonomics is not even in place yet. It is a proposal which is now on the table of the countries and which we have the opportunity to come in and influence. In terms of how the proposal will be designed in the end and how it will be used, the Government's intention is to target taxonomy at the financial market and thus encourage the financial market to invest in what is sustainable over what is not sustainable. There too, we should be able to agree that there are investments that are not sustainable – for example, continuing to invest in coal power at European level, which some countries are still engaged in. We should be able to say that this does not lead to a sustainable climate. There, I hope Jan Ericson agrees. It would be interesting to have a point of view on that question. The government will continue to promote technology neutrality. We will continue to work towards a system that steers towards sustainable investment. I find it worrying that the Liberals have chosen to focus on representing a single energy source in the Swedish debate. It is rather some kind of lobbies you engage in then. Then you can change the name of the Liberals to a lot of Lobberals. Perhaps it would be more appropriate.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-152	Madam President, I would like No, of course I haven't read this whole report from cover to cover. I do not have a whole department to help me, as Per Bolund has, so that would be unreasonable. Nor have I criticized any part that I have not read. What I criticise is the absence of nuclear power, for example. I am not doing this because I am one-sidedly taking the side of nuclear power in the Swedish energy debate. On the contrary, I want a sustainable system in which many different types of energy contribute. This means that we will have to have both hydropower and nuclear power. However, we are extremely positive about all the renewable energy sources that we also need in the coherent system. What is my criticism here, Madam President, is that I do not think the government has been clear enough in its criticism of the European Commission. Nor has it been clear enough when it comes to the things that I have lifted up here, for example, to assist early in the process so that nuclear power could have been involved and you had gained a whole with knowledge – knowledge that we in Sweden actually have and as the European Commission has said that it has been looking for but not found. This is the whole question: how do we view the whole? Just as Per Bolund says here and as I have said repeatedly and written in several places, we are in favour of the EU having a job with taxonomy and having this kind of work with sustainability. That is fundamental, and I think it is perfectly reasonable. But then you have to look at the whole thing. Earlier today in the Finance Committee, for example, the government's staff highlighted Hybrid as something positive, something that might benefit from taxonomy work at EU level. It is only that Hybrid would not be possible at all if it were not for hydro and nuclear power. It is the types of energy we have that can deliver that amount of energy with that security of supply and controlability. That is why we need electrification, and that is why we need to look at the whole.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-157	Madam President, I would like I received a specific question from the Government. It's a little strange, because my approach to taxonomy is clearly expressed in the first paragraph of the interpellation. Maybe the government hasn't had time to read it. There I write that the proposal on taxonomy has a value because it is valuable to have a common standard for this on the financial markets. But I also point out that it is of great importance that the regulations do not disadvantage Sweden. That's the point here, not investing more in coal. I don't think any of us think it's a good idea. My concern is that I think that this whole issue shows that the government is not really involved in what is happening and what the effects are. The question is whether you realize the seriousness. It feels like you have let the process run on without clearly marking from the Swedish side on the road. I cannot judge whether it is a result of inaction or lack of negotiating skills or whether one has simply been surprised by where this has gone. At least I know one thing. I have been a Member of this Parliament for over 14 years now. During those years, I have seen many EU proposals come and go, both good and bad, but I never really think I have experienced a proposal that in any case has the potential to as seriously harm Swedish companies, Swedish jobs, Swedish energy supply and Swedish economy as the current proposal on taxonomy. It is extremely serious and can have extremely serious consequences. I have no further question for the Government. Now it's really up to evidence. Will the Government and the Government act for the good of Sweden, and will this succeed? It remains to be seen.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-161	Madam President, I would like Finally, we have found a point where we can agree, and that is that this proposal has the opportunity to have a major impact. At European level, I believe that the proposal for a taxonomy can have a huge impact in steering investments towards sustainable investments that will enable us to reduce our fossil dependence and also reduce emissions and thus make a powerful contribution to tackling the climate threat, which is an existential threat. It is also the great challenge of our generation that we need to do everything we can to meet. The government is committed to influencing this proposal. It is now possible to influence it in the right direction from a Swedish point of view. That is what we devote our energy and time to, and we will continue to do so. As the gentlemen have mentioned several times in this debate, we also have a close relationship with Parliament, not only through interpellation debates but also by being present in committees, explaining and discussing how the proposal looks and taking in views. My Under-Secretary was in committee today. I will come to the committee next week to do the same. It is important that, as we do when we consult the Riksdag, we listen to Parliament's positions. But it is also important that the Riksdag tries to adopt a constructive stance and proposes changes and what needs to be adjusted. Of course, we discuss not only with Members of Parliament and the parties of the Riksdag, but also continuous reconciliations with industries and organisations throughout Sweden. We will continue to do so during this part of the consultation until 18 December, when Sweden will give a response to the Commission's proposal. So we will continue to have discussions with companies, organisations and industries on how they view these proposals, and that will obviously be part of what Sweden then goes in with in response to the Commission. We have also been able to agree here today that taxonomy for sustainable financing is a step in the right direction at European level.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-167	Madam President, I would like Linda Lindberg has asked me whether I intend to look at the regulations regarding parental insurance so that it becomes more flexible for the country's families with children and what is my justification for the current four-year rule in parental insurance. Parental insurance consists of several parts: parental allowance, temporary parental allowance and pregnancy allowance. There is also a government old-age pension contribution for the respective benefit. Over the past 40 years, Sweden's parental insurance has had a positive impact on the labour market situation of parents by increasing the conditions for both women and men to combine family life and working life. Parental allowance is a very flexible insurance policy. Parents with joint custody are given 240 days each to dispose of until the child is twelve years old. Days can be taken as part of a day or, for example, part of a week. Some days can be taken at the same time if the parents wish to be free together when the child is small. For children born on or after 1 January 2014, parents can take out parental benefit for a maximum of 96 days after the child reaches the age of four. The reason for the four-year limit is, among other things, that both parents should place the majority of their parental leave in the early years of their child's life, when the child's need for care is greatest. Such concentration should be in the best interests of the child through increased opportunities for an early and close relationship with both parents and also contribute to improved conditions for equal parenthood. For children born in 2010, on average, about 94 days remained to be taken out at the child's four-year anniversary. The average duration of children born in 2014 was 79 days. Parents had thus concentrated their withdrawals on their children's younger ages. The social security inspection has followed up the effect of the four-year limit. The study shows that the reform has mainly affected fathers' withdrawals, which on average increased by 11 days until the child reaches the age of four. Fathers' share has increased regardless of education and income and whether parents are native or foreign born. The take-up of parental allowance and parental leave is not yet on an equal footing. Differences also persist between families, which can be explained by differences in parents' needs, standards and socio-economic conditions. More needs to be done, therefore, before the goal of equal parenthood is achieved. In 2017, the Modern Parental Insurance Report submitted its final report. The study's proposals strengthen equal parenthood and make it easier for different family constellations to combine work and family life. The proposals from the investigation are prepared in the Government Office.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-172	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Shekarabi for the answer to the interpellation. The Swedish parental leave is in many ways very generous, and we will have generous parental insurance. It should also be flexible and open to formability for the needs of different families – it is very important. The answer to this four-year rule, which means that it is only possible to save a certain number of days after the child's fourth birthday, says that it is important that parental leave is concentrated in the early years of life. However, this is actually being achieved even before the four-year rule comes into force – it is during the first years of life that the need for care is greatest, and that is when the parents are mostly home. What differs quite a lot during the first years of life are the parenting days of mothers and fathers respectively. It is the mothers who spend most of their time at home with babies and young children, which really seems quite natural because of physical conditions. I would say that the problem for the government and the Social Democrats is perhaps the very fact that it is the mothers who take out the largest part at the beginning of the leave while the fathers take their days a little later. Here we come back to the issue of equality and how different we weigh this in the different parties. When you analyse the four-year rule, it turns out that an equal withdrawal starts only after the child is three years old, and then the government removes a number of days. According to the Social Security Inspection, approximately 33 days per child are due under the four-year rule, and this affects 70% of all children. This means that these children have fewer days with their parents. As I pointed out in my interpellation, most of the days that lapse are reserved for father months. This shows that the four-year rule is unsuccessful, partly because it takes off the reserved father months and partly because it limits the number of days that can be taken out. This applies not least from a child's perspective. The child gets fewer days at home and more days in the great care. The child spends more days away from the family, so what the Government says is not important: that the parents are given more time to their children. Apart from the fact that the reform actually had a positive impact on fathers' withdrawals by around 2% – an average of eleven days in four years – it leads to a more equal yield in statistical terms. In fact, however, it has also had a negative impact on women's economy, which is in fact a bigger problem than who takes what number of days. The reform has simply led to the average increase in women's withdrawals of minimum-level days of ten days and the decrease in their SGI days of around six days. As a result, mothers receive, on average, a lower allowance for almost the same number of days at home. In addition, there is an increase in the number of unpaid leave taken by mothers. The overall income of women is thus falling. The men take out SGI days, and the women take out the lowest-level days. Again, this is a bad reform that does not benefit women or children. What does the Government intend to do about the fact that, with the reform, women tend to take more unpaid leave and more minimum days?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the intervention, for the interpellation and, not least, for the commitment to the issues of family economic policy and parental insurance! I think one advantage of this type of interpellation is that we can deal with misunderstandings that sometimes lead us to draw different conclusions. Sometimes we can draw different conclusions in the light of the fact that we have different ideological starting points, but in this case I think it is more a matter of misunderstanding the study to which the Member of Parliament refers. If I understand correctly, Linda Lindberg referred in her interpellation to a study from Försäkringskassan about days of parental benefit burning inside. I found this very interesting, so I used our resources at the department to delve into the matter. The Social Insurance Agency found that for children born in 2010, about 70 per cent of children had days not used at the eighth anniversary; on average, 33 days had burned inside. The children studied were children born in 2010. They had reached the age of eight, and the right to compensation had thus ceased. This year was therefore covered by the old legal framework; the study was based on what it was like before this reform was implemented and applied to children. At that time, there was no four-year limit. The upper age limit for the group studied was eight years, unlike now when the limit is twelve years old. We cannot, as Linda Lindberg suggests in the interpellation, conclude that the border has caused days to burn inside. What we can see is that most of the days of parental benefit are spent by the parents. Then there are days that are not used, but this may be due to a lot of different things. For example, it may be a matter of bedding days that have been forgotten or of parents who do not need to use the last days. Parents may not know how these days can be used. There may also be parents who are unable to take all days — such as ministers, even if this is not a vulnerable group. It should be said that there are sometimes reasons why parents cannot take parenting days. Many parents took out most of the days with parental allowance, and for nearly 30 per cent of children born in 2010, all days had been spent. For about half of the children it is 1 - 59 days that have not been used, but for many of them it was about very few days. For 50 percent of all children, less than ten days were burned. What we can note after taking part of this study is that one can generally assume that Sweden has an extremely flexible system of parental insurance. Then, of course, there are many different reasons – in particular, labour force participation – for setting a framework for parental leave. It is also about the relationship with the employer; there are quite a few aspects that need to be taken into account here. My assessment is that the legislator has struck the right balance between the need for a great deal of room for manoeuvre and flexibility for the family and parents and the need to have a system that promotes the focus on children's care in the early years and then on the participation of men and women in the labour force. We are, of course, prepared to discuss this issue and also to critically examine the effects of all reforms. That attitude must be taken by all governments and parties. I am, of course, open to seeing these changes from a critical perspective. But what I have seen from our studies, this reform has not had the effect that Linda Lindberg suggests in the interpellation.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-191	Madam President, I would like I have also read the report referred to by the Government. And sure, that could be it. However, the fact remains that it is days that burn inside, and families of course adapt themselves because they want to use as many days as possible. At the same time, we agree that it is important to have equal opportunities from the outset. There we have some other proposals that stimulate and do so in a good way, including proposals on the right to leave for the presence at maternity care throughout the pregnancy, on which I and the Government have debated in the past. We also propose a doubling of the ten days given directly to childbirth, allowing both parents to stay home a whole month after childbirth. We also want to be able to take out several double days, so that both parents can be free at the same time. So we have several measures that could make it easier for both parents to enjoy parental time and to associate early with the new family member without limiting the choice in any way. It is important to emphasise this. As far as the financial consequences are concerned, we believe that no one should suffer financially, no matter who is at home, because the fact remains that anyone who chooses to stay at home receives a slightly lower monthly income. However, the pension right for children's years compensates quite a lot for the pension rate you get when you are on parental leave. When we have looked at economic equality, we have seen that the biggest loss is really only when a parent chooses to go down in time until the child turns eight. Reforms are needed here. Instead of continuing with more quota parental months, which the Social Democrats believe should be six months per parent, one should focus on strengthening the economy for those who choose to take parental leave during the early childhood years and take a little more responsibility at home. It's a tough situation for a lot of parents today. Women with children often suffer from mental illness due to stress and dual roles. It's all connected. Limiting the choice of families, as is done in this case with the four-year rule, is no advantage. That's not the way to go. I think you can use the incentives in a different way than with the input you had when implementing the four-year rule. My question to the Government continues: Does the Government consider it important to have an equal take-out of parental days, that it is a priority for families to get their everyday life together in the best way according to their own circumstances? I haven't been a minister. But I have been self-employed and also had a limited opportunity to take parenting days, so I know that some days are burning in for reasons other than the four-year rule.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-199	Madam President, I would like I believe that both aspects and both interests highlighted by Linda Lindberg are important here. It is important that we have flexibility for parents so that they can plan parental leave and adapt it to the circumstances in which each parent is affected. Then, of course, we must also have a framework for parental insurance. Although parental insurance is incredibly generous compared to virtually all other countries' parental insurance, there must be some kind of framework. It is reasonable for this framework to stimulate a more equal take-up of parental insurance, for the simple reason that it is good for our society that women and men have equal conditions, that children also have the opportunity to get close to their fathers and that we have a holistic approach to parental insurance. We cannot just start from one aspect and say that it must now only be equal and that all other aspects are irrelevant or that flexibility is the only thing that counts and therefore we cannot focus on equality. It is just as always in politics that there must be a balance – a bit boring and grey. It is about compromises and weighing interests against each other. But that, on the other hand, is how our society has been built up and become one of the most decent societies on this earth. And parental insurance is an important part of that Sweden stands out in a positive way. The fact that parental insurance is becoming more and more equal is something that we must welcome. It is good that we have a development that is moving in the right direction. It cannot be denied that the framework for parental benefit has played a role. It has stimulated a more equal take-up of parental insurance and made more fathers take responsibility for caring for the children, and that is good. That is something on which our whole society is built. However, I share Linda Lindberg's analysis that this should not, of course, be the only aspect to be taken into account in parental insurance. But this is not the case; the government sees the need to have different perspectives on parental insurance and its design. We have a number of proposals on the government table from the Parental Insurance investigation that deal with a more equal withdrawal in parental insurance. However, so far the Government has not moved on with these proposals, but we have had talks with the Riksdag about what could be a next step towards more equal and flexible parental insurance.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-205	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is very important to have a balance in this. We will both strive for economic equality, above all, and that the best interests of the child should be in focus all the time. There are different conditions for taking parental leave, regardless of whether you are a minister or self-employed. At the same time as the government introduced the four-year rule, it raised the limit on how long parental days may be taken from eight years to twelve years. On the one hand, the time allowed is extended; on the other hand, the number of days saved is limited, which limits flexibility for parents. The government takes a certain number of days from the families and then makes a proposal for a family week and thus gives the same number of days with the other hand. Why not drop the four - year rule that allows parents to save some of their days? Then they can plan for future parents' days, school days, holidays or the like. Why make parental insurance so incredibly complicated and regulated? Let it be up to the parents to decide and plan for themselves until the children are twelve years old so that they can use their days for holidays, for example, instead of, as the government is doing now, taking one hand and giving with the other.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-208	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the interpellation and for the opportunity to stand here and discuss this important issue! Let us conclude by saying that the Swedish people are satisfied with parental insurance. It is not in this section of social security that there is a great deal of dissatisfaction. Where there are shortcomings are in health insurance, which has in fact been eroded. We need to get to grips with that and solve it. But when it comes to parental insurance, it is about continuing the positive development, which means that Swedes are satisfied with this part of insurance and that Sweden stands out positively in comparison with virtually all other countries in the world. Let us also acknowledge that we have a great deal of flexibility in parental insurance. The ceiling has been raised to twelve years, precisely so that parents will have greater flexibility. We will also introduce the family week, which further increases the opportunity for parents to be at home with children when children, including older children, are free from school. It is very good if we can act so that children and parents can get closer together. It needs our society. Then it is natural that in such a generous insurance system as we have with parental insurance there are certain limits for withdrawal. Then it is also reasonable that there are incentives to take out parenting days when the child is small and the need for care is greatest. I would like to thank you for this discussion and look forward to further dialogue with the Member of Parliament on this issue.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-213	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me what further measures I intend to take to prevent more serious electricity crises in Skåne and other parts of the country, how I intend to follow the Riksdag's decision to evaluate the crisis measures taken by the government to prevent the electricity crisis and how I view the risk of power shortage in winter and the risk of Skåne again having major problems with electricity supply. First, I would like to nuance the picture that Lars Helmered paints. Sweden has good access to electricity. We have exported net to our neighbours every week so far during the year, regardless of whether electricity consumption was high or low in Sweden. Sweden has not had a lack of power, and no users have had to be disconnected. Swedish industry pays the lowest electricity prices throughout the European Union. Electricity prices in southern Sweden have during the summer period this year been the lowest in five years and the second lowest since Sweden was divided into bidding zones in autumn 2011. However, in order to address the first issue, we have certain challenges regarding capacity in the electricity grids. The government has therefore taken a number of measures, and if we look ahead, the government will return to Parliament with proposals from the online concession inquiry to shorten the lead times in the permit process. We also analyse the proposals in the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's reporting from the Government mission on network capacity. Here, too, we intend to come back with proposals with the aim of ensuring that responsible operators take the necessary measures to ensure that there is capacity for existing customers and that additional customers receive electricity within a reasonable period of time. It is also worth mentioning that this summer's operation was in danger of being strained because several nuclear power producers extended their audit times, partly because of the low electricity prices that made it unprofitable to produce electricity during certain periods and partly as a consequence of the ongoing pandemic. Swedish power grids therefore took steps to maintain security of supply during the summer at the same level as in previous years. In this context, I would also like to mention that the Government has commissioned Svenska Kraftnät to report on the work with support services and remedial measures and to submit proposals for remuneration models and regulatory changes. On the second issue, the government has recently received the Parliament's announcement on a follow-up of measures taken to counter the capacity shortage in the electricity grids, which was based on a committee initiative in the Committee on Industry. The government parties also supported the committee initiative. The Government intends to deal with the announcement immediately and to return to Parliament as soon as possible. Finally, and in response to Lars Helmered's last question, I can note that although the power balance is now strained, the Swedish power grid in its power balance report from last spring estimates that the risk of power deficit in the coming winter is small. The Ministry conducts an ongoing dialogue with the Swedish power grid and thus follows the issue closely.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-220	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the opportunity to have a debate on such an important issue. I have chosen to ask a number of questions about the electricity and energy situation in Skåne and parts of Sweden precisely on the basis that households and companies in Sweden should be able to expect that we have safe access to electricity and other energy. In the long term, we see a sharp increase in electricity demand in Sweden. For me it is not just a scenario but a desired social development. I want to see more companies establish themselves in Sweden and more companies choose to grow in Sweden. But I would also like us to combine it with a conversion so that not least industry and the transport sector use more electricity and less fossil energy. Historically, Sweden has had one of the world's best electricity and energy systems. Reasonable electricity prices for customers combined with low emissions have brought important benefits to Sweden. In the coming years, however, we face a number of problems and challenges. For just over a year we have had a number of electricity problems and electricity crises in Skåne and in Stockholm – and this summer the whole of southern Sweden, which led the government to take immediate crisis measures. We see challenges in the long term because the total electricity cost – i.e. not the electricity price – paid by companies in Sweden is not on Europe's lowest average, but on medium, which affects our competitive opportunities. We see that future electricity needs require investment and that money can be made for this. Sweden already has the EU's cleanest electricity system, thanks to the combination of nuclear power, hydropower and various forms of new renewable energy. When investing and developing the Swedish electricity system, it is important to retain the benefits. Madam President, I would like Based on all these challenges, I have chosen to ask the Government a number of questions. I think the picture he gives in his answer can be nuanced a little. The Government is talking about electricity exports, and that is quite true for a full year, month and week. But it is a small consolation if you sit with a company in southern Sweden and are unsure whether the electricity will really be enough so that you can expand your plastic or chemical company. The Government is talking about the low electricity prices. This is certainly true when we look at Nordpool Spot, but the interesting thing for a company is what it pays in total, not only for electricity itself, but for electricity grids, electricity certificates, emission allowances, energy tax and VAT. Then it becomes a little more challenging for Sweden. If you live in southern Sweden you also pay higher electricity tax than many northerners do. They usually have a significantly higher electricity price, and entrepreneurs live with the risk of not really knowing whether capacity exists locally and regionally. What is now required are clear measures. The Minister for Energy talks about regulatory changes for network expansion. It's wise, and we're waiting for a bill from the government. My criticism of what has been worked out does not apply to the proposal as such, but may not go far enough. Madam President, I would like You can be in favour of and against the closure of Ringhals 1, but if you close this reactor, the Minister for Energy and the Government should point out what the alternative is that can ensure stability, not the amount of electricity in the system. We also need to evaluate the emergency packages that have been launched. Did the government do its job? Did the authorities have the power to act for Skåne and Stockholm? And what do we do if and when the next electrical crisis kicks in and how do we do it in a cost-effective and wise way? Madam President, I would like Overall, I think that more and more vigorous action is needed from the government.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-234	Madam President, I would like Let me start where Lars Helmered and I agree. We want more companies to choose to establish themselves in Sweden and more companies to choose to expand in Sweden. That is exactly what we are seeing now, driven by the climate issue, our low energy prices and our good supply of energy. Northvolt establishes northern Europe's largest battery factory in Sweden. LKAB invests SEK 400 billion to electrify and go up a snap in the value chain. Hybrid wants to use electricity and hydrogen to produce the world's first carbon-free steel. This is, of course, extremely pleasing and a development that we want to both acknowledge and support. The background is, of course, that we have the largest electricity surpluses ever. We have the highest-ranking electricity grid in the world and the lowest electricity prices in the European Union. Network suppliers in both Stockholm and Skåne say that there is capacity and power for expansion over the next ten years, until the major transmission projects start. We've tripled our investments in transmission, in electricity grids. We have taken a joint initiative with the energy industry to increase investments in the electricity grids while seeing falling electricity grid prices for the first time in 26 years. I fundamentally welcome Lars Helmered's approach. However, I wish we had been able to discuss these issues not only in Parliament's pulpit but also in the unique cross-block energy agreement that was to be held in Sweden in the perspective of 2030 – 2040. But unfortunately, the Moderates chose to leave it after three years.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-239	Madam President, I would like Sweden has both opportunities and problems in the future. We have the EU's cleanest electrical system. Historically, it has worked very well, but we are seeing trials ahead. We have had three electricity crises in the space of a year, and we have a fairly satisfied minister talking about surpluses and there is no cause for concern. Madam President, I would like The company Kemira expressed in Dagens Industri – on the net yesterday and in the newspaper today – the following: a statement from Minister for Energy Anders Ygeman that we have a national electricity surplus on an annual basis is political gibberish and a way of turning a blind eye to the big and rapidly growing problems we have with security of supply and price fluctuations. The company Boreali says, "We are very worried and frustrated about the development of the electricity market that is becoming acute." The industry organisation Ikem says:.It is extremely serious not least given that these industries account for tens of thousands of jobs and export revenues of over SEK 300 billion. The company Trioplast says, "We see an increasing risk that the electricity supply will in the future function less well." It would be absolutely devastating because we run our plants around the clock, all year round and are completely dependent on the electricity running. There are four examples of companies in southern Sweden that sell billions, who employ many people but who also feel a concern that is not captured by the government with strong measures. That's not good enough. The Minister mentioned the important projects presented by LKAB and also the Hybrid project. I am the first to welcome these fantastic industrial projects, but we also have challenges, not only in terms of electricity and energy in terms of power quality, but also in terms of environmental conditions and processes. As a result, there is a political risk that rules may be delayed or jeopardised. In Hybrit's case, it is about the power grid expansion in Mälardalen, which can take so long that Hybrid's test facility in Oxelösund may be pushed to the future and Sweden's ability to achieve its long-term climate goals is jeopardised. In fact, it's completely insane. I think the situation is so serious that proper action is needed. We have taken the initiative with other parties in the Riksdag to evaluate the crisis packages launched for Stockholm and Skåne. I would like to call on the Minister to say that such a follow-up can be carried out in different ways. Either you can do it resolutely, seriously and immediately, or you shoot it at the future. I would choose the former, because if or when a crisis arises next time – it has been pointed out that it could happen in cities such as Uppsala and Västerås and Malmö again – you have to stand prepared and know what to do, not chance or believe that you are doing the right thing. Action must be taken to secure electricity for households and businesses. The long-term issues must also be addressed. The government has initiated a dialogue to discuss the electricity grids. I think that is a good initiative. What I miss is a government investigation that produces concrete legislative proposals that we can take a position on in order to develop electricity grid regulation. A message about this must come from the Minister, otherwise we have no chance of changing. We also need to develop the electricity market model – the ways of charging. What we have problems and challenges with locally and regionally in Sweden is power quality and power quality, and then the model must be developed so that we reward planned power generation and can secure the electricity system in southern Sweden. Finally, we have the question for the coming winter. Anders Ygeman's party voted last week in parliament to close Ringhal's reactor 1. It is a perfectly legitimate view, but then one should be able to present what the alternative is if the crisis comes to winter or next summer.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-250	Madam President, I would like We need to clear up some misunderstandings here. No party has voted either to close Ringhals 1 or to keep it open. That was not the question. It is because the parliament does not own the power over Ringhals 1. That's what corporate owners do. In planned economies, such decisions can be made in the people's assembly or something like that. In this case, it is owned by a number of companies that have independently taken the decision, so we can leave that at hand. I note that we have nuclear power, hydroelectric power, wind power and many more energy sources in Sweden. We have a good energy mix, and I believe that all these types of energy will be part of the Swedish energy mix for a long time to come. When it comes to the impact situation in Skåne, it is sometimes argued, as Lars Helmered says, that it is a strained situation, that there is a shortage and that the companies are afraid. I personally took an initiative and met the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in South Sweden and the companies they selected, together with the network owner there. Then, with all the papers on the table, we could sort it out, and there is no such risk. The network owner says that they can connect those who want to be connected in Skåne and that they have the capacity for those who want to expand in Skåne over the next ten years. It is the network owner who says this, and it is the network owner who is responsible. I have initiated the meeting and discussed it with the network owner and business organisations. Then there may be a political debate, which Lars Helmered wants to pursue, but objectively speaking, it was said at the meeting, there is no risk. If you have these concerns, you have to contact your network owner. Again: It is not the case that we distribute power cables in the Swedish parliament, but there is a network owner who is responsible for their customers, according to the Electricity Act. To go back to the main issue, the main problem and the main issue – Sweden's electricity situation – it is good compared to virtually all other countries. We have larger electricity surpluses than virtually all other countries in our vicinity. We have a higher ranked electricity grid than our neighbours. We have a better capacity situation. We have a better balance of effects. That is no reason to rest or settle down, on the contrary. That is why we have taken the initiative to triple network investments. That's why there's new power and new energy in the system – no word of word thought, I have to apologize for it. And that is why, together with the energy industry, we have taken the initiative to have both increased pipeline expansion and a reduction for electricity grid customers, whether they are companies or private individuals. All the issues that Lars Helmered and I are discussing here are issues where we previously had a consensus between the parties. We had an energy agreement where I, Lars Helmered and all parties could draw up long-term sustainable strategies for Sweden so that the companies knew when to invest, but only three years ago Lars Helmered and the Moderates chose to leave the energy agreement. It is this, Madam President, that risks creating uncertainty in Swedish energy policy in the long term.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-257	Madam President, I would like It was the company Kemira who talked about the Minister turning a blind eye to the big problems, it was Boreali who talked about huge price fluctuations and how difficult it is to work as an industrial company in this and it was the company Trioplast who talked about the uncertainty. The truth is, for example, that shows pay higher electricity taxes than many northerners and often a significantly higher electricity price. It is a huge twitch in pricing that may not affect you if you live in an apartment, but if you have a large electrical-intensive industrial company in southern Sweden it may sometimes be that you do not have a profitability in your production due to the uncertainty in the electricity and energy markets. It is therefore both the capacity problems and the twitchiness of the whole market that need to be dealt with in different ways, and action is needed. We and other parties have demonstrated this by acting in the Riksdag, making demands to evaluate the emergency packages that exist so that they are prepared if or when it is necessary, stop bad proposals that the government comes with and contribute to new proposals that come. We are clear with our expectation of developing new electricity grid regulation and that the government will have to set up an investigation soon. Not only dialogue, but also concrete legislative proposals and the development of the market model must be developed. Madam President, I would like Then let me get in on Ringhals 1. It's always the owner who decides in a company. If Ringhals owner Vattenfall and Uniper say that they do not want to push on Ringhals 1 there is always an opportunity for the owner, i.e. Ibrahim Baylan, who is the government representative and raises this in the Swedish parliament, to give instructions. We have voted on this in Parliament, and then Anders Ygeman's party chose to vote to close Ringhals 1. It's a fact. That is a perfectly legitimate political view. My main point here is not really for or against Ringhals 1, although I think it is a bad decision, but it is that Anders Ygeman has not presented what the alternative and what the lifeline is if the crisis comes again.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-262	Madam President, I would like Lars Helmered's last post revealed that it was not the capacity situation that the companies in Skåne expressed themselves on, although Lars Helmered wanted it to sound like that. These are price fluctuations and price comparisons between different energy areas. Yes, that is true: in a market, prices are moving up and down, and this year we have had the lowest electricity prices for a very long time. In Skåne we have had the lowest electricity prices in five years. It is clear that it may be difficult for some companies to handle, but the lowest electricity prices in Europe and the lowest electricity prices in five years in Skåne's case and in twelve years in Sweden's case should surely be an advantage for certain entrepreneurship. For those who find price fluctuations difficult to deal with, it is reasonable to hedge their energy purchases in the future, especially if you are an energy intensive industry, or perhaps invest yourself in energy production. It can be nuclear if you want it or wind power if you want it. Companies are free to do this. I note, however, that the measures proposed by Lars Hjälmered, an evaluation and an investigation, will not affect either a) electricity prices or b) price fluctuations. I can also say for the record that we have commissioned Swedish power networks to review the electricity grid division that the EU has committed us to do to see if it can be done better. We also want to drive the transmission between northern and southern Sweden, which over time will reduce the price difference between southern and northern Sweden. Having said that, I would like to thank you for the discussion. I hope, of course, that we will be able to conduct these discussions together between the parties in the Swedish Parliament in a more constructive forum for the good of Sweden so that we can have long-term rules for Swedish entrepreneurship. I take this opportunity to wish Lars Helmered and the President a Merry Christmas.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-268	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what was a major problem in the opt-out law, why the law was not useful and what concrete measures I had wanted to introduce that I did not think the temporary law made possible. The pandemic caused by the new coronavirus is the most serious social crisis in Sweden in modern times. During the spring, the government assessed the need for increased powers in case it would be necessary to rapidly take further measures to slow down the spread of the disease. The reason why the government proposed in the spring that temporary authorisation be included in the CDC Act was to enable the government to quickly decide on measures against the pandemic without first having to go to Parliament with a proposal for each individual measure. Such regulation by law must be decided by the Riksdag. The government's first draft legislative proposal was criticised by several parliamentary parties to give the government too extensive powers. In order to meet the criticism, the Government revised the proposal, which instead had the meaning that regulations issued by the Government on the basis of the authorizations should be submitted to the parliamentary scrutiny by means of a proposal in each individual case. After joining the parliamentary parties, the government chose to present the proposal for temporary authorisation in the Act on Disease Control. In connection with the parliamentary reading, the Social Committee proposed that the temporary authorisations should only be used if Parliament's decision could not be postponed. The Swedish Parliament approved the Government's proposal in the bill with the addition proposed by the Social Affairs Committee. The government's experience, during the period covered by the Act, is that in the vast majority of cases they would not have meant a time gain of importance to use the Temporary Authorisation Act compared to deciding on a customary bill. The Constitutional Committee had also stated that the Riksdag could deal with an urgent proposal in four days. The Government considered that if any such measures that were covered by the Temporary Act had to be taken, it would be more appropriate instead to submit a proposal with legislative proposals on which the Riksdag could take a position. Such a proposal could also include proposals for measures not covered by the authorisation, such as penal sanctions or obligations for municipalities and regions. This was done in June with the bill A new law on temporary anti-infection measures at serving points (prop. 2019/ 20:172). Work is now under way in the Rgeringskansliet to develop a proposal for a new Temporary Pandemic Act in order for the government to regulate activities and get access to what, among other things, the Disease Protection Act and the Order Act do not today. The new Temporary Pandemic Act may cover, for example, public transport and business and is expected to be presented to Parliament early next year.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-274	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia is an enormous test for our society, and Sweden has been hit very hard compared to many other countries. It is clear that it is very important that the government and its authorities have the tools to deal with social crises. In April, the Riksdag decided on a temporary law that for three months gave the government a strong mandate to take measures to reduce the spread of infection. Decisions that would normally require a legislative amendment through a parliamentary decision could now be implemented directly by the Government, but on condition that the decisions would be subsequently approved by the Riksdag. I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. But the answer is a little strange, because the reason for my interpellation was that a few weeks ago the Minister of Social Affairs stated in the media that the government was not given a mandate by the Riksdag to make decisions quickly enough and that the temporary law was not useful. I think it was not just me who reacted with surprise when we heard the Minister of Social Affairs say this in view of what she has said before. When the Parliament's decision was taken on 7 April, the Minister for Social Affairs of Sweden's Television said: And now, all of a sudden, the minister says the law wasn't useful. If I interpret it correctly, this is obviously due to the fact that there was too much work for the Government Office, with its thousands of employees, to write a short bill afterwards to Parliament for approval of the decisions that the government has already taken urgently. But what decisions could be more important for the Government Office to prepare for consideration in the Riksdag than a matter of an emergency measure? And how can the Minister know that the temporary law would be a problem when you actually never tested? You never used this law – not once in the three months after all, the work that was done, all the discussions, Council referrals and all, to produce the law. Yet you didn't use it once. Moreover, it was not the Moderates and the other opposition who did not want to give the government the broad mandate. We Moderates said early in the discussions that we wanted to wait for the team council's assessment and then follow the team council's recommendations. It was the Swedish Law Council's view that decisions under the temporary law should subsequently be submitted to the Riksdag.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-282	I would also like to point out that it was a united parliament, including the Social Affairs Minister's own party, that took the decision on the temporary law. There was no one – at least what I know and what I heard – who made any criticism of the bill in the debate before the decision in this House. On the contrary, it was said from most quarters that this was a fairly balanced law that everyone could support, and as I said, the Minister of Social Affairs went out into the media and said that this guaranteed both rapid decision-making and parliamentary influence. Everyone seemed very pleased, both the Riksdag and the Government and the Minister. In retrospect, to try to explain away one's possible lack of action by the fact that the temporary law was not generous enough, I think nothing but trying to blame. In fact, I did not receive a concrete answer from the Minister of Social Affairs. What concrete proposals did she wish to put in place or take decisions on, but which she felt were prevented from making in retrospect? What proposals could you have made but could you not make because the law was not up to date? I would like an answer to that.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-285	Madam President, I would like I think the answer was very detailed, and it is available to anyone who wants to know all the tours. I would say that it is quite complicated to explain this, even in this House. Above all, however, it is complicated to explain externally what it means to get an authorisation and what it means when drawing up a regulation and proposal in principle at the same time. In answer to the question I have been asked in the autumn about why the authorisation was not used, I can say that it was for the very reason that I have tried to describe here: It did not provide a time gain. To produce a bill at the same time to the Riksdag does not provide a time gain. It is always possible for the government to produce a bill, as we also chose to do when it came to anti-infection measures for restaurants. I may have misunderstood Jan Ericson, but I thought he described that it would be so easy just to send something to Parliament. All members of Parliament are well aware that a bill will be drawn up when the Riksdag is required to make decisions. According to 9th chapter. 2 – 3 § The Parliamentary Order is subject to a decree through a bill, and it takes time. It doesn't matter that you have a lot of employees-- who have a lot to do, should be stressed, during a pandemic. If you are going to produce both a regulation very quickly and a bill in a couple of days you lose the point of the time gain that would mean. What was not mediated when I described the consequences of the authorisation was that I underlined, and now I am doing it again, that I have great respect for the fact that Parliament determines how much mandate you want to give to the government. It is no wonder that the Riksdag wants to retain its ability to exert a great influence. It's the will of the people. The answer, however, is nothing more than that the authorisation itself was no time gain. We had to use other tools to ensure that we can limit the spread of the disease. For example, the Act on Temporary Disease Control at Serving Sites was an expression of this. It became a bill, and then advice was issued for the operation by the Public Health Agency. My view is that in the answer I have given here, it is very clear what the consequences were. Then, of course, it is very welcome if it is the case that everyone wants the government to be given the right mandate. We are currently working, as Jan Ericson knows, on a pandemic legislation that we will have to find another form for, where the focus is not on shutdown activities but rather on how we can steer and limit activities so that they can be carried out in a safe way.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-293	Madam President, I would like I'm getting a little perplexed here. Does the Minister mean that the bill presented to Parliament by the government itself was not up to date from the outset? The amendment from the Social Affairs Committee was that the law could only be used if it was not possible to use the usual route in the Riksdag. It was nothing that restricted the use of the law in general. Now the Minister of Social Affairs says that this law did not work and could not be used. But it was actually the government's own bill. This time-profit thing also sounds really weird. If it's an emergency decision in an emergency, you can make that decision right away. Then they had four working days to put together a bill for the Riksdag. The Minister of Social Affairs says that the staff of the Government Office had so much to do during the pandemic and so on. However, in an emergency situation, where a very rapid and urgent crisis decision has to be taken, surely that must be the priority over everything else. That is exactly what we have done in Parliament when we prioritised the emergency packages. I myself sit on the Finance Committee, and we have certainly given priority to taking them quickly. We have even broken a record when it comes to taking rapid parliamentary decisions on rather far-reaching crisis measures on the economic side. Then it is a little strange to say here that there would be no time gain for the government to be able to make a quick decision in an emergency. Then there is the question: did the Minister not realise the problem that the law could not be used in this way when she praised the Parliament's decision to introduce the temporary law? Then it sounded like it was very positive. This ensures both rapid action and the influence of the Riksdag – so said the Minister himself on TV on 7 April. Now she says the law couldn't be used. I can't get it right. Either the minister didn't realize when they wrote the bill that the law wouldn't work. If so, it is serious in itself. Or there is something else that is causing the Minister to have completely changed his mind on the matter. Nor have I yet been told whether this is a concrete proposal that the Minister for Social Affairs would have wanted to introduce but has been prevented from introducing. Or is the answer from the Minister of Social Affairs that you have done what you thought you would do during the pandemic and that no decisions have been delayed or prevented by the temporary law?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-300	Madam President, I would like The discussion is not about what measures we want or do not want to take. It's about why the authorization was never used. The Social Affairs Committee decided that this could be possible when Parliament's decision cannot be postponed. It simply means that you have a very urgent decision that needs to be made. Jan Ericson describes it as being able to make a decision right away, and then you have four working days to produce a bill. Then I would like to ask Jan Ericson: What decision should the government have made that was so urgent that we had to use the Authorisation Act? It is not about days and weeks, it is perhaps about a day or hours. Otherwise, we might as well come up with a bill. This is the answer to the question why the authorisation was not used. On the question of why we are not simply extending the authorisation in order to be able to take the measures that we see a need to take as the pandemic continues, my answer, once again, is that the authorisation did not provide any time gain. We used other tools. We submitted a proposal to the Riksdag regarding the restriction of the spread of infection at catering sites. It is the order we have been allowed to use.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-304	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think this is the first time that a minister has asked me what I think the minister should have taken for decision during a social crisis. I'm not a minister. I'm not a government. I don't run government agencies. It is the Minister of Social Affairs who does. I ask in my interpellation the Minister of Social Affairs what decisions she believes she has not been able to take because of the temporary law. Then I get the counter-question: What decisions do you think we should have made? That wasn't my question. That's not what my interpellation is about. I can have quite a lot of views on how the government has handled the pandemic, but that is not what my interpellation is about. It's about what the Minister of Social Affairs thinks. I suppose my question has actually been answered. The Minister of Social Affairs has not said that it is a proposal that the government would have liked to have taken that has been prevented by the temporary law. They have gone other ways, she says, and I am pleased with that answer. So there were no other things that you had planned but that could not be decided because of the temporary law. You have got through the things you had planned to do, but you have chosen a different path in Parliament. I'll settle for that answer. Then I can also think that it is good that we have a new law in place that solves this issue for the future. It was rather difficult to deal with this kind of temporary legislation. At the same time, however, I am a little surprised that the government did not want to extend it, but chose to say: No, we do not need that law. We can't use it. After all, it was the government itself that asked for the law in April, so it all becomes very illogical. I realise, however, that we are not getting any further on this issue. I note, as I said, that the government has been able to put forward the proposals it wanted, but that it has chosen a different path. Then I am pleased with that answer.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-309	Madam President, I would like After all, the authorisation was unusable, and that is why it has not been extended. If you are to submit to the Riksdag immediately except in cases where you cannot wait for a parliamentary decision, which in turn can go for a few days, it will not be an authorisation that allows you to take urgent action. We will therefore come back with a pandemic legislation that we think is aimed at regulating activities that we cannot regulate today in order to get more right. However, I think it sounds as if Jan Ericson thinks that the authorisation should have been used, because he also thinks it should be extended. The Moderates have fallen on some question that has been put to me mediated and wonder why the authorization has not been used and why it is not extended. My answer has always been: because it became useless when this is to be submitted to Parliament in principle immediately and because those situations do not arise where it needs to be so immediate. There are almost always a few days, and then it might as well be a bill. That is why the authorisation was not used and there is no need to extend it.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-311	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I am prepared to review the possibility of allowing pharmacists to file anonymous complaints with IVO and whether I am prepared to have them investigated whether pharmacies and pharmacists should be given the right to refuse withdrawal in the event of suspected withdrawal of the medicinal product. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg asks what measures on drugs will be found in the Government's proposal for a renewed ANDTS strategy and, finally, what other measures I am prepared to take in order to reduce the problem of drug abuse and dependence on drugs. Johan Hultberg highlights several important issues. It makes me happy that Johan Hultberg is involved in the issue of drugs. The question deserves attention. The Government's ambition is that over the medicinal product of narcotic drugs should not occur. Prescribed drugs should also not lead to abuse or abuse. In order to counteract the abuse of drug-class drugs, pharmacists are required to report. The notification obligation for pharmacists means that they are obliged to notify if they fear that the prescription of narcotic drugs by a licensed professional is in conflict with science and proven experience. Pharmacy staff already have the opportunity to report anonymously to IVO. The Government has also decided, within the framework of the transition to good and close care, to introduce permanent medical contact. A permanent doctor's contact with good patient knowledge is a measure that will reduce over the medicinal product of controlled drugs. Next year, the national list of medicines will be introduced. It should prevent overprescription and allow better follow-up of the patient's drug treatment and avoid incorrect combinations of medicines and abuse. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have been commissioned by the Government to digitise and automate the control of individual prescriber privileges. The work of pharmacists to control restrictions on the right to prescribe will thus be facilitated. I would like to await the effects of these efforts before I am prepared to investigate whether pharmacies and pharmacists should be given the right to refuse withdrawal in the event of suspected withdrawal of the medicinal product. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to increase knowledge about the use of tranquilizers and sleeping pills in Sweden. The assignment will be presented in March 2021, and the report will be important for the Government's continued work in this area. The Government is considering including drugs in the upcoming ANDTS strategy, which is now being prepared in the Government Office and which will be submitted to the Riksdag in early 2021. The government is aware of the problem of drug abuse and dependence on controlled drugs. The government has recently appointed a special investigator to review how interventions for children, young people and adults with co-morbidity in the form of addiction and addiction and other psychiatric diagnosis or related conditions can be carried out in a more coordinated way. The purpose of the mission is to create better conditions for these people. It includes medical as well as pharmacological, psychiatric and social interventions.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation! It is an interpellation that I place, as well as the next interpellation that we will debate later, quite a lot in view of the fact that people who are in a serious addiction and suffer from an addiction disease are a group of patients who are very marginalised in our society. That group risks becoming even more marginalised now during a pandemic, as almost all the focus is on the major challenge facing our society as a whole, not least our health care. In Sweden, as I write in my interpellation, we basically have a very good control over the prescription of drugs. We have good doctors who usually take good responsibility for prescribing, follow up their patients and are restrictive about the use of the prescription block – albeit an electronic one now. However, we also have problems with some doctors passing prescriptions and not keeping track of what other doctors prescribe. We also see that notifications to IVO and HSAN, the Health Care Responsibility Board, are increasing when it comes to just over the medicinal product and incorrect drug treatment. Therefore, I think it is important that we see the signs that we also in Sweden have a starting problem and that we take them very seriously. I very much welcome what the Minister mentions at the end of his reply that the government is looking at the possibility of including also drugs in the framework of the ANDTS strategy. I think that would be very good. I can agree, Madam President, on behalf of the Moderates, that we would support something like that if the government chooses to go ahead with it. It's almost a call. I also think that we need to look at whether more can be done to tackle the problems that still exist in this area. I'm highlighting some ideas here. I have in no way, Madam President, all the answers, but this is more precisely to highlight a problem that I think we should take very seriously in Sweden. We see globally how incorrect prescriptions, over the medicinal product and easy-to-use prescriptions of these drugs often lead to very serious abuse. We see, for example, Madam President, an opioid crisis in the United States which is terrible and in which a much too easy prescription of very strong painkillers is often the cause and the background. I am also very hopeful about the inquiry referred to by the Minister for Social Affairs, namely Anders Printz's report on co-morbidity. It has, of course, been added much because we in Parliament were in complete agreement with an announcement that required us to look at how we can better target those suffering from co-morbidity, i.e. both an addiction and another psychiatric disease. I'm very hopeful that that investigation will come up with some good suggestions. I also hope that the Minister will be able to describe a little more concretely what she sees in her view that, for example, the ANDTS strategy could do to tackle this problem. Then perhaps it is soon a pass to the responsible authority to look at the possibility in practice of making anonymous notifications from pharmacies. The paper form to be completed if you report a doctor for over the medicinal product must be signed in the last row. In the electronic device you should fill in the contact details of the pharmacy. If it's a small town, maybe you're the only pharmacist there, and then it's pretty obvious who's filed the complaint. But this is, as I said, almost a pass to the responsible authority.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Johan Hultberg, for the question and for talking about much of what is happening in the shadow of the pandemic! Because that's the way it is. Problems that we already have risk growing no matter who they are. It can also mean that solutions delay when the focus is on combating the covid-19 pandemic. As far as the list of medicines itself is concerned, there are examples of something that has come to drag out a little more of the time for that very reason. There are of course many parts, and I look forward to the reports from the authorities, but it is clear that a fixed doctor's contact and the list of medicines themselves are very central to having a comprehensive grasp of what is actually printed. As an individual doctor, you may feel that you are making a well-founded decision to prescribe even a drug - controlled drug. Even if you are supposed to be very restrictive about it, it may be that a person can really manage to jump around between doctors for a long time. Unfortunately, that is the system we are seeing today. If you have a national list of medicines where it will be possible for doctors to see which medicines the patient has already been prescribed, it will of course facilitate the assessment of the treatment the person needs. But it also means that no one can be deprived of responsibility when it comes to being expected to know what the patient has already been prescribed. In order for our discussion not only to be about the fact that it is the care that transfers drugs, I would like to say that the survey that the National Board of Health and Welfare has previously done shows that a very large part of the drugs that are abused have been brought into Sweden illegally. So, of course, we have a job to do when it comes to customs and police and everything else that is needed to stop the illegal drugs that enter Sweden in this way. One of the first meetings I had when I became Minister of Social Affairs in February 2019 was with Sanne's mother and many other relatives of children and siblings who were just suffering from co-morbidity. What is one and what is the other, what is an addiction to drugs and what is a mental illness and that one tries to alleviate one's anxiety – what comes first? I have really taken on board this issue of co-morbidity. I think it is terrible to see that we have the knowledge but not always the ability to see the different states in parallel, but one can in some way choose which of the diagnoses or conditions to treat. I am pleased that we have such a consensus on this issue. So when Anders Printz returns with his investigation, I hope, of course, that he has been able to find suggestions that we can proceed with and that we will be able to do so quite quickly. These are groups that can't wait, regardless of a pandemic.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-338	Madam President, I would like I share the view that the national list of medicines is absolutely central to this work. That is one of many reasons why the Moderates have been a little pushy and a nail in the eye when it comes to trying to introduce it as soon as possible. It is understandable, of course, that the work needed to be pushed slightly into the future because of the pandemic. Our 21 regions have, to say the least, much else to devote their time and attention to right now. I very much hope that it will produce results. I think it will reduce the problem of patients shopping around, as we are unfortunately seeing today. In a study from the Swedish Medical Products Agency – it has probably a few years on the neck – where you looked at prescription withdrawals you could see that 800 people on the same day had collected medicines more than once. So there is a problem with patients taking advantage of the fact that our privacy practices do not give the treating doctor knowledge that Persson earlier that same day might have been with his colleague at the health centre two blocks away. It is also important that the government looks at the possibility of giving pharmacies additional tools. I respect the fact that we might want to wait for the introduction and effect of the national list of medicines. However, the possibility should not be ruled out, for example, of allowing pharmacists to refuse, in certain exceptional cases, the withdrawal of certain medicinal products, if it is quite obvious that it is a prescription and a withdrawal that is not reasonable and is not in accordance with the practice and the treatment a patient should receive. Madam President, I would like IVO also plays a crucial role in this. It was the Alliance that introduced that regulator. It was good and welcome. But the agency needs to be developed. Its supervision needs to be improved. There was a report last year from the Swedish National Audit Office, which also pointed out that IVO and not least the government's governance of IVO need to be improved. The government needs to give the agency better conditions to fulfil its mission. Among other things, the government has provided the agency with far too much temporary funding. This makes it difficult for IVO to build up long-term supervision activities and to achieve continuity in its work. This is a pass to the Minister of Social Affairs to give IVO, which is the central player in terms of supervision, better conditions for exercising supervision.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-344	Madam President, I would like I and Johan Hultberg agree on a lot in this area, which is a positive thing. This is something that we must act together against as a society. In my first speech, I spoke a little about the fact that the national list of medicines is now a little late due to the pandemic. But it is also a comprehensive register, or whatever it should be called, that will be of enormous benefit to you. When you start with it, it is important to really get all the data so that you do not start to act as a national list of medicines, even though everything is not included. So now that the date is somewhat advanced, I hope and assume that we will see an effect of it. Let me also say something more about fixed medical contact. Of course, if you go to the same doctor and you can't just change, there is already a barrier for someone who constantly changes his contact. I think that will also make a positive contribution. These are big and important decisions. But it is also a major issue; it is difficult to say that it depends on just some investigation or someone's follow-up. This is one of the major systems that needs to be put in place. In the meantime, IVO obviously needs the right muscles. Apoteken also needs to feel that they can report. They have a basic notification obligation, which it is important that they use. But I take with me, also from the previous post, what Johan Hultberg said about the possibility for pharmacists to be able to register anonymously. I think it's an important part. I also look forward to the report by the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, which is due at the end of March, for further discussion.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-350	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is good when there are issues where we agree. This creates the conditions for us to be able to carry out good work on these issues in the long term, even after the elections when the alliance government hopefully takes office. The basis is that we should have a good healthcare system that captures all patients in a good way and ensures that patients do not fall between the chairs, as in the horribly tragic case of Sanne in SVT's Mission Granning. Many of us look forward to Anders Printz's investigation. It will hopefully come up with important pieces of the puzzle to create a care that ensures that patients really get a collective care and are not balled between psychiatry, the municipality's social services or other care interventions. It's basic. IVO needs to be strengthened. It is also important that the introduction of the national list of medicines goes as quickly and well as possible. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs must look at further measures to deal with the problem. I give the Minister of Social Affairs a chance to also be a little more concrete about what the government sees in the view that the ANDTS strategy could include in this area. It is true that a large part of the problem of drug abuse is about the consumption of drugs that have been imported into Sweden illegally. But many times addiction has, after all, begun with having a prescription. You may have had an injury that you have been treated for but not enough follow-up. Health care needs to ensure that each patient receives a proper follow-up of their prescriptions and other interventions so that hopefully a drug treatment can be discontinued.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-354	Madam President, I would like I do not intend in this interpellation debate – and indeed not in the next one, Johan Hultberg! – review the ANDTS strategy. We're working on it. I know that the Committee on Social Affairs was given an overview of the strategy. We'll have to get back to you once we've put an end to it. However, I would like to emphasise that when it comes to co-morbidity – we broadened the debate and the discussion to that – sometimes, even within the framework of the same principal, one hand does not really know what the other is doing. It is therefore not a job that the Swedish Parliament will be able to solve by saying that it is a matter of a principal. I think there are things we can do to facilitate that work. But it is incredibly important to see the individuals with the complex problems they often have. I would like to repeat that the medical reform and the national list of medicines will be incredibly crucial. In the meantime, of course, we need to do several other, smaller things. But I think those parts are necessary to get in place. I will end the debate by saying once again that there is one more medicinal product in health care, but that most of the drug-class drugs that are abused come from outside. It is not, therefore, an issue for which I believe that care alone or perhaps mainly should be responsible. It is also largely a matter for customs and police.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-358	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to commission the Public Health Agency to investigate the extent of opioid dependence. He has asked if I am prepared to give the Public Health Authority and the National Board of Health a mandate to investigate how many people are currently under and in need of LARO. He has also asked what measures I am prepared to take to ensure good access to LARO throughout the country. These are urgent and important issues that Johan Hultberg raises. I am also pleased that Johan Hultberg is committed to the issue of drugs and controlled drugs. These are issues that deserve attention. My ambition and the Government's ambition is that opioid treatment, like any other care and treatment, should be accessible, equal and of good quality. It can never be acceptable to compromise with the care given to the most vulnerable in many cases. I also see with concern the death of drug and drug poisoning in Sweden. However, differences in registration and reporting practices make it difficult to compare between individual countries. However, I do not think it makes sense to stick to such comparisons. Rather, we need to look at our own situation, and from this point of view I think we can see that the level of drug and drug poisoning is far too high. I fully agree with Johan Hultberg on that. Against this background, the government has for several years taken measures to obtain ne d mortality and to ensure that those suffering from an addiction or addiction disease are given access to good care and treatment. These are harm reduction measures, increased knowledge and support for the principals, who are, of course, the actors responsible for drug abuse and addiction care. As far as the extent of opioid dependence is concerned, we already have figures on what it looks like today. To complement this picture, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have been tasked with increasing knowledge about the use of tranquilizers and sleeping pills in Sweden. The mandate shall be presented by 31 December 2020. We also have knowledge of the number of people in LARO treatment, which is around 4,000 per year. As far as the need for LARO treatment is concerned, this analysis needs to be carried out by the authorities on an ongoing basis in order to ensure good access to treatment. To support the principals, the National Board of Health and Welfare, on behalf of the government, has recently developed a knowledge support on LARO. The aim of the knowledge support is to contribute to good and equivalent care for people with opioid dependence. The government also recently appointed a special investigator to review how efforts for people with co-morbidity, addiction and other psychiatric diagnosis or related conditions can be undertaken in a more coordinated way. The purpose of the assignment is to create better conditions for people with addiction problems and simultaneous mental ill health to be able to receive needs-oriented and patient-centred care that is of high quality and can be offered on equal terms throughout the country. It includes medical as well as pharmacological, psychiatric and social interventions. I think there are strong reasons to wait for the investigation before we proceed with further surveys or other efforts. With regard to the announcement to evaluate the current drugs policy and to take the initiative for a zero vision of deaths caused by drugs, which Johan Hultberg otherwise mentions, the Council intends to return to Parliament on this matter. It is welcome that a united parliament wants to focus on an evidence-based drugs policy that ensures that people with addiction and addiction receive the care they need and stresses the importance of reducing the number of deaths due to drug and drug poisoning. This is very much in line with the public health-based approach set out in the ANDT strategy.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-367	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Sweden has a terribly high drug-related mortality rate. On the political side, we must be brutally honest and honest and say as it is: we have failed. We have pursued a policy that has not been able to provide those most in need of care and intervention with the care and treatment they need. Far too many patients do not get treatment, do not get the social support they need and do not get the other health care they need for the problems, sequelae and other things they suffer because of or during their abuse. The Minister mentioned that, of course, there is a certain, or even a large, uncertainty about the figures for how much higher the Swedish drug-related mortality rate is compared to that of other countries. That's it. Sweden is good at keeping statistics. We can probably feel confident that we have a very good track of how many people in Sweden die from drug-related causes. Other countries may not follow these deaths quite as closely as Sweden. But Sweden, Madam President, has a four times higher reported drug-related mortality than the EU average. The mortality of us stands out. This means that we need to rethink and develop our policies. We know, among other things, that those most at risk of dying from drug-related causes are injectors and opioid users. There, drug-assisted treatment has a very good effect. Without treatment, only one in ten opioid addicts succeeds in ending their addiction. If they do not, this leads to misery, sickness, crime and, in many cases, death. The mortality rate for opioid-dependent people is 7% per year if they are not treated. It is therefore extremely important that these people get into care and treatment. The Minister of Social Affairs says we've got a pretty good eye on how many people are in treatment. No, I'd say. There is an estimate from the National Board of Health and Welfare of 4,000 people, but it is precisely an estimate. For example, they try to look at the register of medicinal products. Surveys have also been conducted which, however, contain major shortcomings. I think the Minister must be careful to say that this and so many people are being treated because we do not know that. Madam President, I would like It is, in a sense, telling us that we have to deal with how many patients die from drug-related causes, but we do not know how many people are in an addiction and how many are injectors or opioids and are in need of LARO. We know the last, that is, how many people die from their addiction, but we do not know what the target group for care and treatment looks like. We do not know how much coverage we have in healthcare and treatment. This is the basis of my interpellation. We need to keep an eye on the situation if we are to develop policies, if healthcare is to develop its efforts and if we are to ensure better compliance with the updated and, as I think, good national guidelines from the National Board of Health and Welfare. We do not, however. We really only know how many people die. This is deeply unsatisfactory. I think the Minister of Social Affairs should deal with the problem.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-373	Madam President, I would like Knowledge of prescribed drugs as part of a treatment has been gained, but this is of course how Johan Hultberg describes it. I think that we need to take the whole situation very seriously, and so does a united parliament. However, the issue is not easy to deal with. It is about reducing access and making sure that fewer people at all start with some form of narcotics. We must ensure in various ways that at a very early stage someone who has a use or abuse, someone who uses drugs, can be detected. A number of changes have been made to ensure that those who still get stuck in an addiction can, for example, reverse an overdose. In 2018, it was decided to make naloxone much more accessible to people at risk. Several describe that this really saves lives. You can pick up a naloxone package and then also come back to refill it. It shows that you have used it and saved someone's life. We need to do more of this. Access to naloxone, needle exchange and other things that reduce mortality cannot be what we say you should only be able to get in some part of Sweden. This is something that is now available throughout the country, which is very important. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned in 2017 to work together with the Swedish Public Health Agency to reduce drug-related mortality. Knowledge support has been developed. The Public Health Agency has also been tasked with developing an alert system for drug-related deaths and looking at how to implement this system nationally. It shouldn't be that you can miss the cases it's all about. There is also a need to raise awareness of the people who could be included in this. It will be a bit the same discussion as we had in the previous debate. Some questions come back. Detecting when someone who, in this case, collects too much drugs is an example of another signal. We also have the question of having a permanent doctor who not only discovers that someone comes and asks for something printed out, but also has a role in both acting preventively and ensuring health as a whole. One should not underestimate the major reforms that play a role for this group too. It is very important that we keep our eyes on better care and better treatment being given in order to reduce mortality. We must ensure that these treatments increase in scope. In our policy development, we, as a country, also need to bring with us all the preventive work and all the social efforts that prevent people from getting into situations where, for various reasons, it is necessary to start with an abuse.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-379	Madam President, I would like When we debate drugs, the focus is often on early detection, the nature of young people's drug habits and prevention. That's great. That is, of course, where work must begin to ensure that as few people as possible slip into the path of dependence and get caught up in an abuse that risks deepening and resulting in very far-reaching and serious consequences. However, we also need to focus more on ensuring that those who already have a serious and severe addiction disease do indeed receive good care and treatment. They do not get that enough in Sweden today, Madam President. We have far too many people who need, for example, a LARO treatment and who wait and wait but do not get the care they need. If you suffer from a serious addiction disease, it is extremely important that the healthcare system receives the extended hand when you are motivated. The statement that it is a waiting period of at best a couple of months, in some places in Sweden even for several years, is not the message that that person should receive, but it is extremely important that the healthcare system quickly ensures that the person comes into care and treatment. There are good examples and experiences in Sweden. For example, Region Skåne has taken a relatively bold approach compared to the rest of Sweden and introduced care choices for LARO, which has dramatically improved access to LARO treatment in Skåne. This seems to have good effects and is something we must, of course, follow extremely carefully and learn from. I also think we have a lot to learn from Norway. I myself live in northern Bohuslän in a municipality bordering Norway and follow with great interest the political development taking place on that side of the border. There they work very hard to try to push back the high drug-related mortality they have there. Sweden and Norway have historically been quite similar in this area, but Norway has partially redesigned its policy. It has been faster to develop harm reduction measures and more clearly to ensure access to naloxone, LARO and other harm reduction measures. One thing that has been done in Norway, among other things, is to introduce a specific national overdose strategy. I think that is the kind of measures that the Minister for Social Affairs needs to consider. I am, of course, fully aware that health care is the responsibility of the regions, but when we see such huge regional disparities across the country, both in terms of mortality but also in terms of access to naloxone, LARO and other treatments and care interventions, we, as national politicians, must take greater national responsibility, I think. The most elementary, I think, is to ensure that we are at least in control of the situation. We don't. We don't know how many patients need LARO treatment. But when Sweden has an estimated 4,000 patients in LARO and Norway have 8,000 – with 5 million fewer inhabitants – it tells me that Sweden probably has a very large number of patients who are in need of care and treatment but do not receive it. This costs human lives. That is why I think it is so important for the Minister of Social Affairs to ensure that we get up-to-date and good statistics on how many people have a problem drug use, how many injectors and how many people need LARO. This has the EU Drugs Agency as recommended indicators, and they are monitored annually. Then it is reasonable if Sweden, which in other areas is best in the class of statistics, ensures that we have these data in Sweden.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-387	Madam President, I would like I deliberately chose not to start at the end early detection and limited access, but precisely because we need to have the kind of measures that can lift overdoses, reduce injuries and cause people with severe addiction to be given all the support, care and treatment that can be envisaged for them to leave the addiction. I would like to comment on the issue of sprawl. Johan Hultberg mentions Skåne, and it is very apt. Whatever the party colour, one can say that Skåne has left a little bit and gone a little ahead. Both Johan Hultberg and I are familiar with the friction between the regions; the view of the sprinkling in Skåne has stirred up the rest of the country. Thank God we're over the worst. We must of course ensure that you do not have to live in Skåne or in the right part of the country; this is care that you are entitled to on equal terms regardless of where you live. That's why naloxone is a good example, I think. This is about accessibility in the country. There are also information materials, recommendations and national guidelines. Should a person who has a severe addiction and is seeking treatment be referred to some general waiting? One could well say that it is an urgent need and that emergency care is required. Then you don't wait. This is indeed an approach that needs to be worked on in health care. Maybe that's what Johan Hultberg said – we know how many people are treated, but how many people need treatment I didn't say we have full control of. Of course, it is important that we increase that knowledge. How many people receive LARO treatment is it important that we know in order to be able to make assessments of what it leads to, how successful it is and if you manage LARO treatment properly in healthcare. I do not really have much more to add than to say that we need to continue working on this in the way we have done with naloxone and sprinkling. This is something that we need to have a common approach to across the country, because this is health care. It is, if nothing else, a little bit of a joint mission for the Social Affairs Committee in the Swedish Parliament to ensure that it is regarded as healthcare. It is not certain that everyone else in society always sees it that way. This creates a lot of emotion, debate and discussion. I welcome the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs is taking these initiatives and that we are jointly ensuring that we move forward positions on the perception of people with addiction. They have the right to care and treatment. We must also continue urgently to ensure that people suffering from co-morbidity – it is not necessarily always the same group – receive the treatment to which they are entitled.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-393	Madam President, I would like It is certainly the case that we in Sweden have made a journey in terms not least of attitudes and attitudes towards this patient group. In the past, we didn't even see them as patients, as the Minister of Social Affairs was on. Thankfully, something has happened since the days of Nils Bejerot, if I may say so. After all, today we have an ambition to provide these patients with the care to which they are entitled. As I said, we finally have good, up-to-date national guidelines that are in line with research in Sweden and internationally and that have good support in evidence and proven experience. We know that LARO treatment is extremely effective, saves lives, saves money for society and creates a completely different quality of life for patients. We know that naloxone, the Minister of Social Affairs, saved lives. Then I think we need greater national responsibility to ensure that you have access to this, whether you live in Västernorrland, in Kalmar, where the Minister for Social Affairs has his heart, or in Bohuslän, where I live. It is my firm opinion that the Minister for Social Affairs needs to ensure that we have facts on the table in order to take further steps forward. This applies, in particular, to compliance with the national guidelines. The supply is completely different across the country. I do not think that is acceptable. Then a first step is that we collect the statistics needed to monitor how many patients are in treatment and how many patients are in need of treatment in order to be able to make demands on the regions and make efforts nationally. I think that the Minister of Social Affairs can dust off Milton's investigation, consider whether one can strengthen the health guarantee, look at the possibility of investigating more mobile low-threshold receptions, as the Public Health Agency proposes, and not least address the data issue. We need statistics, and we need to know what the situation is. For example, it is not reasonable for the Swedish Association for Dependent Medicine to have its members take stock of what there is for care interventions.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-397	Madam President, I would like My predecessor, Gabriel Wikström, took important steps. It was not obvious to talk about the right to naloxone treatment throughout the country, but it was an important step. It should, of course, be followed by more insightful decisions at different levels in order for people with addiction to receive the care and treatment they need. Basically, this is very much about human vision. Do all men have equal value? Are all people entitled to care and treatment according to their needs regardless of where in the country they live? We all say yes to that question. I believe, the hand on the heart, that in many ways it is human vision that is all about our society. It is about upgrading this and saying that all people should have this opportunity. In addition to producing the facts, I think we have a lot to do to underline the equal value of all people.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-399	Madam President, I would like Angelika Bengtsson has asked me what plan I and the government have to get more children and young people to play sports and what strategy I and the government have so that more children and young people will not stop playing sports because of the restrictions that exist as a result of the coronapndemine. First of all, I would like to thank the interpeller for highlighting this important issue. The movement and sports of children and young people are really a high priority for me as a minister. Providing opportunities for movement and sport is basically about providing the opportunity for better physical and mental health and a better quality of life. Unfortunately, this possibility is not equal among children and young people in today's Sweden, and inequalities in health are increasing. We must break this trend. The freedom of the National Sports Federation to allocate state support to sport entails considerable social responsibility. Socio-economically strong areas must not be favoured at the expense of areas facing socio-economic challenges. The Swedish Sports Federation is now working on developing new grant rules, and I am conducting a close dialogue with the Association on the need for changes that lead to greater equality and equality in sport. These aspects have been particularly important in connection with this year's extra crisis support for sport aimed at mitigating the economic impact of the pandemic on sports activities throughout the country, especially for children and young people. In this context, I can also be clear that the Council is prepared to decide on further crisis support to ensure the survival of the sports movement through the crisis. Madam President, I would like The fact that the sports movement during and after the pandemic is continuously working for all children's and young people's opportunities for movement and sport is central. It is also particularly important to make their sport activities relevant to new generations as time goes by now. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight three measures taken by the government for the increased and more equal opportunities of children and young people for movement and sport. First of all, the initiative of the National Sports Association Collection for daily movement, which among other things extended the teaching time in sports and health in primary school by 100 hours and gave the National Sports Federation the opportunity and space to a power collection for more sport, movement and development of movement understanding within the framework of the school day. The Daily Movement Collection also established a movement network where key actors meet in dialogue on competence development and other issues that are important for increased physical activity for children and young people. Secondly, the appointment of a national coordinator to promote increased physical activity. Until 1 March 2023, the coordinator will work outwardly to increase general knowledge of the benefits of physical activity for each of us. The mandate includes paying particular attention to vulnerable groups such as children, young people, the elderly and persons with disabilities. The third measure I would like to highlight is the mission the Government gave to Boverket in October to develop proposals on how knowledge of facilities and outdoor environments for sports and leisure can be developed, collected and communicated. The issue of facilities is central to the mobility and sport of all, not least children and young people. The mission has a clear focus on reaching both broad and new groups of sports, sports and outdoor practitioners. Finally, I would like to highlight the many efforts made in the sports movement to keep children's and young people's activities going during the pandemic. I would also like to highlight the public health authority's clear message about the importance of fysisk activity and that sport and training should therefore continue as far as possible.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-409	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Amanda Lind is also passionate about sport. I am extremely concerned about our children and young people who now stop playing sports as a result of the coronapndemine. In particular, young people born before 2005 have been affected. They are recommended by the Swedish Public Health Agency not to practise in groups or indoors. Their trainings have basically been cancelled. During my childhood, I have been a sportsman and physically active. Personally, I got out an incredible amount, not only physically but also well-being, leadership training and many friends. Later in life, I was able to come back as a leader and teach. It gave another added value, something that in adulthood means more from a leadership perspective. The sports movement, based on our unique association life, we will affirm, take care of and care for. It is therefore extremely sad to read about the concerns that are reported intensely about the increasing number of children and young people stopping sports. Björn Eriksson, Chairman of the National Sports Federation, calls this a ticking bomb. Carolina Klüft, Executive Director of Generation Pep, also expresses concern about the mental health of young people. The leaders of the entire sports movement feel the same concern. Instead, I would argue that this is a big ticking hand grenade. We risk getting a whole generation of couch potatoes. We also know that sedentary sittings increased even before the pandemic. Madam President, I would like What I and many people with me miss from the government is a preventive work that needs to be started now. It is not enough to pump more money into crisis support. Will the government begin an outreach activity to catch up and get back the young people who quit sports? Will the government begin work to look at how many people are affected by reduced physical activity? And how does the government deal with the concerns now expressed by the entire sports movement? Madam President, I would like These questions are not just about those who make an elite effort. It's not just about those who like to play sports. It is not just about leaders working with young people. This is about a whole generation of public health. Physical activity and mental health are closely linked. Physical activity and better learning ability are closely linked. Physical activity and our well-being are connected.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-417	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Angelika Bengtsson's description of how extremely important sport, movement and training are and how extremely important it is that we have our strong and vibrant sports movement throughout the country in order for it to be possible for children and young people to participate. It's just like I said in my answer. This is a challenge that already existed before the pandemic, unfortunately. We are seeing an increasing gap between those who do sports and those who do not. It depends on the gender you have, the ethnic background you have and your socio-economic status. These are challenges that the sports movement even before the pandemic needed to work on. These are challenges that the government has identified and already taken several steps to address. I was in on some of them in my answer. It is about everything from the review of the grant rules for the Swedish Sports Federation to taking a grip on the construction issue, which is also an important prerequisite. It is not least about working to promote movement in school. It is about the daily movement and the connection and contact with the association life so that it will then be a light bridge to get into the sports association when you in school have got in touch with both your body and with different types of sports. I am also concerned about the effects of the pandemic on public health, our sports movement and, not least, the growing conditions of children and young people today. It is about all children's equal opportunities to take part in training and sport. We are already seeing some children falling outside organised sport when training hours are reduced. We need to take this very seriously. Madam President, I would like Of course, the funds we have provided for the sports movement to ensure the survival of sport throughout the country are crucial for the future re-launch of sport. It is about being able to recruit and bring more children and young people back into sport, catch up with those who may have fallen away and not least bring new children and young people into regular training. The government has almost doubled state support for sport this year, and we have always been in complete agreement with the Swedish Sports Federation that further analysis of the consequences is required. The government is prepared to provide additional support. We are already seeing that the new restrictions, which unfortunately need to remain for a while, are further affecting the economy of the sports movement. Madam President, I would like The sports movement is independent today. It is of course the Swedish Sports Federation that is specifically responsible for the outreach activities. We fully agree that they should also look at the consequences of children's and young people's lack of sport during the pandemic. I am very pleased that both the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish Sports Federation have been so clear about how important it is to protect children's and young people's movement during the pandemic. Unfortunately, in recent weeks' rather draconian restrictions, older young people have had to back down in their training. Recently, new recommendations were made, opening up for outdoor training in smaller groups. It is also something that the sports movement has identified as a good and important step in order to be able to hold on, to meet, to maintain the social community of sport and, of course, to keep going. It's absolutely central. It is natural now that the spread of infection is so large that there will be limitations. It is a hard blow to our whole society in different ways. But to hold in our young people even during this difficult time and then to be able to build a return to a more normal situation I know that our sports movement is completely souled by, and we in the government will continue to do exactly everything we can to support.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-427	Madam President, I would like We support the three proposals put forward by the Government in its response. The effort on daily movement in school is of course good. As I mentioned, physical activity and learning skills are linked. Having a national coordinator to promote increased physical activity, as I understand it from the regulations, is about activating those who are not physically active today and about reducing obesity. It is a little different, but it is of course connected with well-being and physical activity. The assignment that Boverket had last autumn to review the local facilities is great, because it is a proposal that is similar to something that we have been exercising over for two years – to review the local facilities with what they have done in Denmark with the local and plant fund as a model. There you have a fund that in an innovative way can develop a local facility so that it can work for more sports than just one and perhaps for more activities. It's great that that work is up and running. My question and my interpellation, however, are about those who were already part of sports club life and who are now leaving it. It's about young people who don't see any hope for the future. It is about young people who lose hope about their sport and what they are passionate about. Yes, much has been done. Some have changed on their own initiative to practice outdoors. Some have had digital training. But the competitions that are so incredibly important for one's own development potential, in order to be able to push oneself a little bit more, are now missing because one does not meet. What you look forward to as a student when it's Sunday afternoon, the weekly trainings, no longer exists. I am extremely concerned that many people do not now see that hope and joy because of the pandemic we live in. The security of everyday life has disappeared for many. I don't have any news that's not about making more money. The government has made it clear that it is prepared to spend more money. But I'm looking for something more, something concrete about how to lure back those who have been part of the sports movement. I do not have any concrete proposals. I am convinced that this work needs to start right now, not then, in order for the sofa generation to not become couch potatoes. They are in danger of doing so, and it would be sad both for young people and for public health – not least because we know what the other consequences of this are. What concrete proposals do we want to see in addition to those already presented? I miss those suggestions.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-436	Madam President, I would like The work that Angelika Bengtsson wants to plan for a re-start and to attract more children and young people – both those who are already outside, which is a huge challenge, and those who are now slipping outside and may lose motivation or desire or are dependent on routines and competition elements to be inspired – is already under way. It is up to the National Sports Federation to plan how the sports movement across the country can prepare for this, and it is already part of the state support for sport. It is part of the basic support that is provided each year but also in crisis support. In the new crisis support round for the last billion, the government stressed that the aim of the support for sport is both to ensure the survival of the sports movement throughout the country and to ensure that the existing inequalities are not prolonged or reinforced but also to contribute to the re-launch of the sports movement. Of course, we now see that this is being pushed further ahead because the pandemic is still sweeping over the country and is also affecting our sports movement. It is, of course, a very frustrating situation, albeit necessary. The government is prepared to continue supporting the sports movement. It is about survival but also about giving opportunities and muscles to carry out a reboot. The Swedish Sports Federation has also chosen, within the framework of the existing state support for sport, to convert some resources to enable outdoor training. If a club or association needs to purchase specific equipment for it or plan differently, lack of resources should not be an obstacle. I take a very positive view of this work and of all the efforts that are being made. Much of the work to promote the sports movement's ability to keep going even during the pandemic can be about creating spontaneous sports places, for example by flushing ice for skating, and ensuring that association life at the local level has good conditions. There the municipalities play a key role, and through generous contributions to the general state grants, the government has enabled municipalities to make such efforts. I see daily examples around the country of municipalities granting hall rents, sending incentives to the sports movement and opening up spontaneous spaces both in winter and summer. That's very positive. As far as forward-looking work is concerned, I would like to emphasise once again the ommittée for promoting increased physical activity, which the government has set up. The two people who sit on the Committee are very close to the sports movement and have a good knowledge of the ability and opportunities of the sports movement and also of the importance of movement and sport. Per Nilsson chairs the Committee. He's the headmaster of the School of Gymnastics and Sports. Caroline Waldheim is a member of the Committee. She works at the Swedish Football Association and has a background as an expert in sports policy. I think it is natural for this committee to catch up on the work and effects of the coronapndemine. The work the committee will do in broad collaboration with the sports movement and other actors will also be very important when we will work to promote public health broadly after the pandemic, not least for children and young people.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister. Again, this is a group of people, young people, who are at risk of falling into an evil spiral by feeling ill for a longer period of time because they do not feel hope for the future. If nothing is done today, the consequences will already be visible tomorrow, and then it may take longer to remedy. Sport is not just about sports, about cheering up one's favorite athlete or about watching or doing sports for oneself, but it is also about one's own well-being and one's own development. As a youth, I was very inspired by my coach, my leader and my companions. Being able to push yourself to win over the colleague or friend is so very important to your whole well-being. I have no doubt about the government's commitment to sport. Much has been done during this term of office – much more than previous ministers responsible for sports issues have done. That's good. However, we must not forget those who are most affected by the pandemic – especially those young people who were born after 2005, whom I would say are most affected by everyone and who cannot play sports today. I am well aware that much has been done in terms of conversions, but we must not forget the spirit of comradeship, which is so incredibly important. As I said, there are many of us who are concerned, not least those leaders in the sports movement who see young people. We must not forget the future of our young people; it is incredibly important.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-450	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of how hard the pandemic has hit Swedish sport, and I would like to thank the Swedish sports movement as a whole for the responsibility, understanding and ability to find constructive solutions that have been demonstrated during the pandemic. The sports movement also understands that disease prevention at this stage needs to be a priority and that it goes beyond the sports movement and children's ability to sport. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that the Swedish Public Health Agency today gave notice of a little more opportunities for older teenagers to move around, meet in smaller groups outdoors and continue to keep going. This is of course of great importance, not least during the winter when the infection settles over Sweden and it is much more difficult to vent in other ways. As regards how the pandemic will affect children's and young people's sports and physical activity at large, we see that it will have consequences. The Pandemine came into the midst of a major change in sports where these issues have been under lightning for a long time. Both before and during the pandemic, I and the government have worked strongly for increased sports and movement. We have set up a national coordinator for physical activity. We have addressed the issue of construction; it is absolutely central to the possibility of movement and sport throughout the country. Not least in 2020, with EUR 11⁄2 billion in additional crisis support, we have saved the sports movement and ensured its survival and ability to maintain sporting activities throughout the country, especially for children and young people. That, Madam President, is of course also crucial for the important re-starting work to be done. I would like to thank Angelika Bengtsson for this debate. I hope for broad political unity and broad political commitment from the state, from the Riksdag and from regions and municipalities – a commitment to the rights and opportunities of all children to sport.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-455	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson in Linköping has asked me if I intend to act so that no state grants are paid to organisations with extremist elements before any new regulation is in place as a result of the investigation that has been set up. Jonas Andersson has also asked how I intend to act to counteract negative consequences for Swedish society as a result of state subsidies being distributed to organisations that, with new assessments, no longer have the right to state grants with reference to extremism and the like. Finally, Jonas Andersson has asked how I intend to act in order to deal with a problem in which an organisation cannot receive state subsidies on grounds of extremism and such things but where this organisation continues to receive public support at local political level. Let me start with the first question. Public funds should only be allocated to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society. The misuse of public funds is totally unacceptable. Already with the current regulatory framework, the authorities can stop payments to organisations that do not live up to democratic conditions. For example, the National Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, has stopped contributions to several organisations where there were suspicions that the host organisations do not live up to the democratic conditions associated with the grant. Furthermore, the government has carried out several different actions in parallel with the process of a new democracy condition. Among other things, MUCF from 2020 has received increased funding for its administrative allocation in order to strengthen grant management. This has made it easier for the Authority to apply existing democratic conditions. Today, an overwhelming majority of the contributions go to organisations that make important contributions to society. In addition, most regulations already contain some form of democracy. Work is under way to review the entire regulatory framework to ensure uniform and long-term rules and to ensure that the funds go to what they are intended for. Tax money should only go to organisations that respect the fundamental values of society as expressed in the form of government and in the international conventions on human rights. That is an important principle. In addition, any tax chandelier that goes to some of the few organisations operating in breach of them risks undermining the credibility of the entire aid system. A strong and independent civil society is central to our democracy. Finally, with regard to the last question, the government has limited scope to govern how municipalities act. The municipalities are independent according to the Constitution, and the state cannot prescribe which organisations they should provide grants to. On the other hand, municipalities can receive support from the guidance, Democracy Conditions for Civil Society Grants – Guidance for Administrators (SOU 2019:35), developed by the Democracy Condition Investigation to advise municipalities, for example, when deciding on grant applications.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-463	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Amanda Lind for her answer to the interpellation. The issue of state subsidies to extremist civil society organisations has long been under intense debate. The seriousness of the issue has been underlined not only by the Swedish Democrats in this House but also by many other actors – researchers, authorities and so on. Säpo is one of those actors who, in their referral to the report of the Democracy Condition Investigation, stated that a relatively large number of organisations linked to extremist environments receive public funds through both government and municipal contributions and that such organisations can contribute to increased radicalisation in Sweden and contribute to the growth of violent environments. That this is the case is both harmful to the cohesion of Swedish society and dangerous in terms of the risk of attacks on Swedish society in the form of acts of terrorism and the like, if it wants to be really bad. Of course, it is positive that the government wants to investigate more rigorous democracy conditions, but I think it will come very slow. Nor does it answer all the questions that exist about stopping contributions to Islamists and other extremists. Madam President, I would like Associations with links to political Islam and other extremism have been able to receive state subsidies in Sweden for decades without further notice. The study association Ibn Rushd, which has links with the Muslim Brotherhood, is an example of this. Government grants of tens of millions of dollars have been received for over ten years. For over ten years, therefore, millions of dollars have gone straight into the pockets of those who in many ways want to fight Sweden and what we stand for. At the same time, the Promise Government has been governing Sweden for about six years – this without any real tightening up of democratic conditions and the corresponding ones in the meantime. In other words, there have been for many years both reasons and time for the government to act. Islamists have been able to build themselves strong in Sweden with the help of tax money. Without these contributions, of course, there would not have been anywhere near the same platform that has been drawn from this government's policy. The government's policy has, with state subsidies, doped associations with links to political Islam over all these years. Madam President, I would like One issue that I regret is that the government does not address is what will happen to all the state contributions to Islamists and other extremists until the investigation in question is completed by the end of 2021. There is a long time to go before the investigation proposal becomes a reality, and there is also a long time to continue making contributions to extremists if nothing is done. Sweden urgently needs to develop laws and rules that prevent contributions to political Islam and other subversive activities until new democratic conditions and other sharp and longer-term tools are in place. In many ways, this is an emergency. It is not just a question of state subsidies to associations that would be better or worse than others in some kind of democratic sense, but it is a question of security for the whole of Sweden. If this is bad, radicalisation and violent associations are fattened. That is why the government must act decisively and not just lean against the inadequate laws and regulations that we have today. I would like to ask: is the Minister prepared to act in order to bring about some kind of temporary regulation that will put an end to the payment of subsidies to Islamists and other extremists until the proposal of the new investigation in several years' time can become a reality?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-474	Madam President, I would like Of course, I and the government take this issue very seriously. Over the past few weeks, I have heard representatives of the right-wing opposition swing with various claims that it would be about the government not taking the issue seriously and that it is a conscious delay that the work on democracy conditions is now given a follow-up mission to look at the issue of personal data processing. Madam President, I would like Nothing could be more wrong. On the other hand, it would be irresponsible for the government if we did not get a new legislation with uniform, clear democratic conditions that would give more opportunity to look at how individual representatives of different associations and organisations have acted in violation of the values of democracy. Then, Madam President, we must be able to apply the legislation properly. To argue otherwise is to completely misunderstand the government's responsibility to get applicable legislation, and I assume that the Swedish Democrats and Jonas Andersson also want it. Madam President, I would like There are democratic conditions already on which a majority of the various support regulations have to lean. The government hasn't been on the lazy side. The government has gradually tightened the control of the aid granted. We have now given a mandate, in combination with the new investigation and on the advice of Säpo, to also investigate a support function that should be able to act as advice to various contributing authorities and actors. That, Madam President, is also a way of creating applicable conditions for democracy and making this work more effective, in reality. The government has also provided the contributing authorities and organisations with various ways to better examine the contributions paid. For example, MUCF, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, has been given more opportunity to examine the grants paid out. The Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Communities has also carried out and been tasked with continuing to develop the work on control and the link with the values of democracy. Madam President, I would like So to say that the government does not take these issues seriously is both lying and wrong. Madam President, I would like Sometimes you get the impression that the Swedish Democrats believe that civil society as a whole is dangerous and that you should pull the carpet away from it in different ways. It is a bit ironic that it is so important for you to talk about these issues when the grant was actually removed from your own youth association, the SDU, with reference to the ideas of democracy. It was done after just such a review of the link with the democratic conditions that exist. Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is natural from the perspective of the Swedish Democrats to push forward in an issue without taking into account the facts and the will of the government to produce legislation that is not applicable in practice. This is not how I want to work, but when the conditions of democracy are in place, the legislation should be enforceable.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-481	Madam President, I would like Speaking of who has violated democratic conditions, as far as I know, MUCF has also looked at the SSU, for example, the Youth League of the party with which Amanda Lind is ruling, so I think that is also an interesting issue in this context. One issue in my interpellation concerns responsibility for the consequences of state subsidies going to Islamism and the like in civil society year after year. Unfortunately, I do not think the question has been answered in the interpellation response that I received, although the other questions have been partly answered. If the proposals that may be put forward as a result of the government's new inquiry into democracy conditions are even to be worth water, we can assume that some organisations currently receiving state subsidies will no longer receive it. Among other things, I have talked about the fact that we have organisations today with well-documented links with the Muslim Brotherhood, which receives state subsidies. I think that is a rather clear example of something that should not have it. The result of the new rules may be that organisations that have received state subsidies for several years, perhaps even decades, are no longer entitled to the grants on the grounds that, for example, they would be in conflict with democracy or have links to Islamism. If that is the case, I think that a responsible government should reasonably act and see the consequences of what has happened. I assume that the government understands the seriousness of feeding tens of millions into grant crowns each year to certain organisations that are then found are extremists in different ways and that it can have bad consequences for Swedish civil society and Swedish society in general. For example, if we add up the annual payments of state grants to Ibn Rushd, which we have talked about before, it is about hundreds of millions of SEK. Radicalisation, violent Islamism and such things can be fueled for decades. Then, as a government, you have to get to the bottom of it and not just turn the page or put the lid on it. Madam President, I would like I will also say a few words about the municipal perspective in terms of support for civil society, which Amanda Lind was at the beginning here. It is true, as Amanda Lind refers to in the interpellation response, that the government has limited opportunities to control the actions of municipalities. And I believe that we agree on the importance of municipal self-government and that it is something that we should protect fundamentally. It is an important part of Swedish democracy. However, I have to ask: is it really reasonable that it should be optional for municipalities to make contributions to associations that fatten radicalisation and violent Islamism, especially if it is at the same time stopped at state level? I believe that it is a security issue for Sweden that goes beyond cultural policy and public support for civil society. Just because we have 290 municipalities, public Sweden cannot have as many positions on the question of fertilising radicalisation and violent associations. As has been said, Mr Säpo has pointed out the threat of many organisations linked to extremist environments receiving public funds, including municipal grants, and that this in turn can contribute to increased radicalisation and the growth of violent environments. Does Amanda Lind mean that municipalities should only be allowed to distribute grants to associations that, among other things, Säpo believes, can contribute to increased radicalisation and the growth of violent environments in Sweden?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-489	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I must say that I am being perplexed by what Jonas Andersson is proposing. Jonas Andersson is happy in his answer to develop what he really wants the government to do. Taking over funding from the municipalities does not seem to me to be a reasonable alternative. Madam President, I would like The government is now doing a solid job of developing new, strengthened, uniform democracy conditions and a support manual for municipalities for the application of democratic conditions at municipal level. We do so without embarking on municipal self-government, and I assume that is not what Jonas Andersson wants. The government is also very keen that when we have democracy conditions in place, they should be legally secure, applicable and work in reality. I also assume here that the Swedish Democrats want us to take into account fundamental principles such as the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law once we have a law in place and that it will really work. Madam President, I would like We have also chosen to work even more intensively on this issue by taking note of Säpo's proposal to establish a support function with guidance, advice and support to municipalities, contributing authorities and organisations. Madam President, I would like The government takes this issue very seriously but, as I said, wants the work to be defensible and feasible in practice.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-494	Madam President, I would like I note how the position of Amanda Lind and the government is beginning to differ very much when it comes, for example, to the right of municipalities to relate to migration policy and to say no to it in different ways. But it seems very difficult to stop contributions to Islamists and the like. In recent weeks, the government has made proposals to further liberalise Swedish migration policy. Among other things, it is about the infamous High School Act. There the government is very quick and capable of action. Rapid referrals are being made and proposals are urgently being pushed through that are moving closer to amnesty for adult men without protection needs that have already been supported for years by taxpayers. Why is this relevant in a debate on civil society? Because it shows how resolutely the government acts in some cases and how impotent it is in other cases. When it comes to putting an end to contributions to Islamists and the like, things are extremely slow. I do not think we will see any new legislation on democracy conditions until 2022, and then we are almost at the next elections and the Government of Löfven has been in office for almost two terms of office. To get perspective on it, we can remember that when the government took office after the 2014 elections, Barack Obama was still President of the United States, and the migration crisis in 2015 had not yet been experienced. Why is it, Amanda Lind, that the government can be so incredibly quick and even tailor-made laws and regulations as the High School Act for Afghans without protection reasons while it takes many years for the government to put forward proposals to put a stop to state contributions to Islamists?
i-17b66b4387283a6a-499	Madam President, I would like I do not share the view that the authorities are doing nothing. We have democratic conditions, and the government has on several occasions strengthened the authorities' ability to work with follow-up. The authorities have become much better at examining and monitoring grant applications. Unserious organizations are stopped, and that's good. It is essential that we have legislation in this area that clearly marks against and makes it impossible for anti-democratic actors to access public funds. If that's what Jonas Andersson and I agree with. Madam President, I would like Designing a new democratic condition for government funding that will not only keep up with today's situation but also forward is not as simple as Jonas Andersson wants to suggest. For me as the responsible Minister of State, the rule of law weighs heavily, and it is my firm conviction that the result will be much better with an applicable law that gives the opportunity to work seriously on these issues and identify the ugly fishermen and thereby enable our rich and democratic society to thrive. That, of course, is something I want to take seriously. It would be irresponsible for me to bring forward legislation that could not be applied in practice. Finally, I would like to stress how important civil society is to our democracy. Sometimes we in Parliament tend to forget about it when we focus on the few organisations that are problematic. I think that all these organisations with millions of volunteers who often work on a non-profit basis for a better world deserve our respect and should have clear democratic conditions that work.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-504	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked the Minister for Labour if the Minister is prepared to initiate targeted aid to Strömstad, for example to finance the municipality's planned conversion office and how the Minister sees the possibility of developing special lay-off aid with a higher subsidy rate to companies that are exceptionally hard hit by the Corona crisis, such as companies in border trade. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg has asked if the Minister intends to take any steps to address the problem of cross-border commuters experiencing discrimination and to ensure that the work commuting across the Swedish-Norwegian border works well even now during the ongoing pandemic. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Due to the effects of the ongoing pandemic on, among other things, border trade, the Government has had ongoing contact with Strömstad Municipality. I myself attended a meeting with, among others, business representatives from Strömstad on 11 November 2020 together with Minister for Foreign Trade and Nordic Minister for Cooperation Anna Hallberg. The focus of our dialogue has been to ensure support for Strömstad Municipality through the Government's general measures to deal with the financial consequences of the pandemic. The Swedish Agency for Growth has the government's mission to assist with business notice and change, and within the framework of this mission the agency has now decided to participate in financing a conversion office. Within the framework of its regional growth work, the Västra Götaland region will also be involved in financing the conversion office. Arbetsförmedlingen also provides support to the unemployed on the basis of their mission. The Government has taken a number of measures aimed at mitigating the impact on jobs and companies in all sectors, including short-term work, conversion aid, turnover support to individual traders, deferral of tax payments and reliefs in the unemployment fund for entrepreneurs. The government is continuously following the impact of the measures presented and, as recently announced by the government, it is proposed that these measures be extended. As far as work commuting across the Swedish-Norwegian border is concerned, I think it is very important that it works as smoothly as before the pandemic broke out. My ministerial colleague Anna Hallberg has had a close dialogue with Norwegian representatives throughout the pandemic about the importance of facilitating work commuting. Norway has also exempted commuters from entry restrictions, which has been very positive and enabled commuting to continue unhindered during the pandemic. I take very seriously the data on Swedish commuters who have felt discriminated against at their workplaces in Norway. This issue was raised by the Prime Minister during a meeting with the other Nordic prime ministers. This problem was also highlighted in both the Swedish and Norwegian media, and Norway's Prime Minister Solberg Erna has also reacted. The government has continued to raise the issue in talks with various Norwegian representatives. It is, of course, unacceptable if there is discrimination between Swedes at workplaces in Norway. The Government is engaged in active and long-term work to create the conditions for the whole country to manage the consequences of the pandemic and at the same time contribute to a rapid restart for the Swedish economy. This work is best carried out together, and I would therefore like to end by thanking the regions, municipalities and other actors for their fantastic work in dealing with the consequences of the pandemic in various areas.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-513	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. I often and gladly debate with the Minister for Rural Development, but today I have to admit that I would have preferred to have seen the Minister for Labour in the speaker's chair and that I am actually both surprised and disappointed not to have this opportunity. I put my interpellation to the Minister for Labour, and my interpellation is about the labour market situation in Strömstad. Madam President, I would like On August 23, the Polarbread factory was burned in Älvsbyn. It was a manslaughter battle against a fine family business and of course also against the small town and the municipality of Älvsbyn. Just a few days later, on 31 August, the Minister for Labour visited not only the Minister for Labour but also Prime Minister Älvsbyn. That was excellent. Of course, the government must listen to and understand the situation in a municipality that is so badly affected by an event like Älvsbyn and start a discussion directly about what can be done to deal with the acute crisis and the situation and what can be done to help in the longer term transition work. Madam President, I would like On 19 March Norway closed the border with Sweden. That's 264 days ago. To my knowledge, the Minister for Labour has still not visited or even had a meeting with the municipal management in Strömstad or the companies concerned. I find it remarkable to say the least. I am genuinely concerned that the government is showing too little interest in my opinion. I hope this is because the government has not understood the depth of the crisis that Strömstad is experiencing and how serious the crisis actually is. Madam President, I would like Let me therefore describe the situation again. No other municipality is as severely affected as Strömstad. Since March, unemployment has increased by 66 per cent – this is because the local labour market in Strömstad as well as in northern Bohuslän and Dalsland is very much built around trade and hospitality and restaurant business, primarily with customers from our western naboland. Of all 290 municipalities in Sweden, Strömstad is the municipality with the largest share of employed persons in retail trade and the third largest proportion of employed persons in the hotel and restaurant industry. More than one in four Strömstadsbo were employed in these industries before the crisis. Today's notice has rolled in. Terminations have already been made. The notice wave that has swept in over Strömstad amounts to 1 500 - 2,000 employees. If we translate it into Gothenburg, it is 75 000 jobs. I am quite convinced that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour had quickly gone to Gothenburg if that kind of notice had been put there, but in Strömstad they had to wait until 11 November to get to a digital meeting with the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for Nordic Affairs. I think this in some way illustrates that the government is not really taking the situation in Strömstad seriously. Now the government must actually heed the distress calls from Strömstad and take concrete measures in both the short term and the long term.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-521	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for an important question! It is correct that we have had several debates, and we will certainly have more. This particular debate is about a comprehensive approach to how the government works with affected places in this context. The question is in such a way that it falls within my remit. I am absolutely sure that Johan Hultberg can ask a question that is correctly formulated to the Minister for Labour and thus have a debate with her. In this context, I would like to reject Johan Hultberg's hint that the government would be uninterested in Strömstad. I think that the debate is low, and I also think that it is clearly incorrect in this context. The government has taken a large number of measures in general, linked to the business community at large, and we have carried out a number of different works that are ongoing with the places that are most severely affected. We have a continuous dialogue. Every week, for example, the Swedish Agency for Growth has discussions with Strömstad based on the situation that prevails there to identify what kind of help and what tools they need. The Government has entered the Swedish Agency for Growth and finances the conversion office, which for example has been in demand. The Arbetsförmedlingen, which is located under Eva Nordmark's area, is continuously attending the meetings and makes all the contributions they can within the framework of their mission to help in the very difficult situation that prevails in Strömstad. In addition to Strömstad, we have direct contact in this area with Sundsvall, Hylte, Vimmerby and Skara, which are other locations that have been hit very hard in this situation in the first stage. A notice group has been set up at the Government Office to coordinate and provide the best possible and rapid support in the current situation, where we have in different ways had direct contact based on each situation unique to these locations. We are now talking about places that are hit harder than average and that have specific conditions and challenges. This work, which concerns the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Labour, Education and the Ministry of Finance, is coordinated by my Secretary of State Per Callenberg, who is also the one who usually has the first initial contact with the localities. Having said that, I do not believe that we have all the solutions in place to help the hard hit places. We need to follow the support we have developed so far. They have mainly been general in order to be able to roll out quickly in the current situation. They have been extended, and in some cases adjusted to meet more target groups and so on. If I remember correctly, the government has tabled 12 or 13 additional amending budgets given the situation, and we are constantly following the effect of the measures that we are doing. We have been very clear that we are also prepared to reconsider. We are not closing the door to any kind of action forward, but everything is being tested. It is about constantly trying to weigh different tools and interventions according to the needs and find a reasonable balance in it. I have to say that I think the work is moving as soon as we can ask for the situation we have, but what is key in this is all the time the cooperation that we have with the affected municipalities. We also have a situation where we are currently waiting for the MFF to be completed. We thought it was finished, but now it's not. There are additional tools and quite large money that can be connected in this context and that I am happy to return to in later posts.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-530	Madam President, I would like Of course, the efforts needed in Strömstad and other municipalities that are particularly affected affect the responsibilities of a wide range of ministers and several ministries. It is about training measures, about what the Employment Service does, about enterprise policy and about regional growth, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Rural Development. What I miss is such a quick signal that the Minister for Employment and the Prime Minister sent when they directly got on a plane, a train or a car up to Älvsbyn. The signal that the jobs in Strömstad are important has not come in the same way. I note that the border was closed on 19 March and that it was only in November that the meeting was held with the Minister for Rural Development and Anna Hallberg. That was of course a good thing, and there we discussed concrete issues that I would be happy to follow up with the Minister for Rural Development. A concrete proposal that I know has been recorded to the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry is that companies that have lost more than 90% of their turnover could have the opportunity to pause the notice period for four months. What is very much at stake here, Madam President, is that it is an extensive border trade in Strömstad. Nordby Shopping Center is Sweden's largest trading venue, with a turnover of, I believe, 4.6 billion last year. Of course, it is hoped that customers will return soon, when the pandemic is under control and the border can be reopened. Then it is good if companies have not lost all staff and have not gone bankrupt and if the trading venue is still vibrant and has the opportunity to receive consumers and customers quickly again. There the proposal would have been an example of a concrete measure that the government could have taken to support not only companies in Strömstad but companies that have been hit particularly hard. They can be found in other places in our country too, not least elsewhere along the Swedish-Norwegian border. It is a concrete proposal which has been recorded and which I hope the Minister for Rural Development can comment on. The Minister mentioned that the government has acted quickly. That description of history does not really share me and the Moderates, but we think that the government has been far too slow through the crisis and that we have had to run the government ahead of us. Yes, many additional amending budgets have been tabled, but they have been added many times after we Moderates have pushed forward and put forward sharp proposals that we need a business dossier, turnover support and other things, and of course that also individual companies, not just large limited companies, should have the opportunity to receive support. So I'm not really buying that. What we are now seeing with regard to much of the support that has been sought is, unfortunately, that individual companies or limited companies have to wait for months to get the money. If you are a company like Nordby Shopping Center and you have lost 95% of your turnover, it is pretty tough to wait those months to get the turnover support or lay-off compensation. The government really needs to act to speed up these payments while looking at the possibility of introducing more targeted measures. I am of the opinion that it is quite likely that border trade will not return to exactly the amazing level that we had before the crisis, not least in view of the fact that the Norwegian Government has given notice that it is lowering the tax on several important border trade products. Then we must support Strömstad in the transition, but Strömstad has only received a spit stifle of the funds that have been applied for to offer adult education. This is because Strömstad historically had a low unemployment rate, and it is in this history that the government grants support to adult education. This is a strong contribution and an appeal: the government must adapt the support measures and training measures according to the current special situation.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-538	Madam President, I would like I note that this debate is quite a synonym of what Johan Hultberg is expressing and his picture of how he and the Moderates are acting in the crisis. You listen to what is said in the debate and the issues under preparation, and you record them as if they were your own proposals and that you are running the government ahead of you. That's not true. Let us address the last issue that has now been raised, where the lack of adult education funds is being pointed out. I can only say that it is a measure that exists thanks to the fact that this government introduced it in 2017. This money has been equal, and everyone who has sought has received what they have wanted – until this year, when the interest and need exploded and the search pressure and the need became much greater than one could answer up to. As a result, in the budget proposal 2021, we increase the money for this by 1 billion and open a new application date from 1 December. So things have already been decided. In his interpellation, Johan Hultberg pointed out that the government must help to support a conversion office – as if it were he who runs the government in front of him on the matter. This is something we've already done. That kind of example I could stand here with for a long time, but I do not think it is very constructive. What we need to do is really look at what tools we have and what we can do to help the municipalities and the companies that are now having a really tough time. I'm sorry I used a curse! I didn't mean to. I heard it myself, and I apologize. The thing is that a lot of people are struggling to keep their businesses and to survive a crisis. Some of them suffer from premature restructuring that might have taken place over time, while others have companies that are able to continue to be companies, solid companies, when the pandemic is over. When it comes to the border trade in Strömstad it is a bit difficult to know exactly what is what. You might think that everything after the pandemic will return to being just as it was before and that there will then be conditions for everything to overwinter and that you can get started as usual. But if Norway now uses this opportunity to change its rules to try to get Norwegians to shop in Norway instead as part of this, we will have to change and find the conditions for new and growing companies in Strömstad. This makes regional knowledge and the municipality's knowledge of the conditions in Strömstad very important in this context. Therefore, the contacts and contact areas that we are now working up together with the Swedish Agency for Growth and Employment are very important here. That work is ongoing and has been for so long. Of course, this does not mean that you can settle down and say: Now we are talking to Strömstad. It is important to constantly identify which tools are reasonable. What is it that we have in place, and what do we know is coming? An important issue in this context, which will mean that municipalities and regions can work with regional development in a powerful way, is the European money from which we are so far starting to come from Brussels. These are, on the one hand, the decisions that were taken in connection with the MFF and which, for various reasons, are pending in Brussels for the final decisions to be taken. It is 3.3 billion for Sweden to enter the system. It is clear that it will affect what targeted efforts can be made on the basis of the conditions of a region and a municipality in an immensely powerful way. Then we cannot wait for it indefinitely, but we expect decisions to be taken before Christmas. This must be done in order for the EU budget to be able to roll elsewhere. So it is in the near future.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-549	Madam President, I would like It is clear that I and the Minister for Rural Development do not really have the same view of reality and what has been done and not done on the part of the government. My firm opinion is that we have had a government that has been far too passive and too slow. When it comes to, for example, conversion aid, there was something that I lifted here after the summer. It is gratifying that the Swedish Agency for Growth made a decision the other week to finance half a million – if I am properly informed – to a conversion office. It is still small potatoes, Madam President. I can see that only the border trade in Strömstad in the last ten years has brought in just over 12 billion in VAT revenue. I may think that the government should definitely look at how to support a change in Strömstad if, for example, the border trade does not return to the historically high levels it has had. Nevertheless, I believe – it is my firm opinion – that it is better that we do everything we can to save fundamentally viable and competitive companies that will get their customers back, albeit not to the exact same extent as before, when we hopefully can return to a more normal life. That is why it is important for the type of action that I specifically asked the Minister about, and to which I did not get an answer, namely: can the government consider launching special support for companies that have lost, for example, 90% in turnover in order to bridge a period of time and be able to pause redundancies? Can you imagine other more generous lay-off payments? What I can see is that, for example, the turnover aid that the government has launched was the worst designed during the summer. At that time, the aid levels were lowest. It is therefore in the months during which tourism companies and the cross-border trade have their most important and important time of the year. At that time, the State received as low compensation as possible. I note that the measures that the government has launched so far have not been directly tailored to Strömstad, but rather the opposite.
i-17b66b4387283a6a-555	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to do both in Strömstad and elsewhere. You need to look both at overwintering and at having tools for conversion. You have to look at what you've done and how you can screw the systems. That is also my answer to the question. We received a written request from Strömstad about this a few weeks ago, and we exclude nothing. We follow the questions, and we adjust according to the needs you see available and based on the tools that we think are good and appropriate. I can see that the interpellation was addressed to the Minister for Labour, and much of the bread text in it is about the wave that has hit Strömstad and which is, of course, terrible. We assume that we are working all we can to save the companies that exist and to create the conditions for new companies. However, I can also note that Johan Hultberg does not say a word about the people who become unemployed in this context, those who have become unemployed and those who are unemployed right now. I can also say that it is a little distressing in this context, and also a little talking, that the biggest difference between what the government actually does and what distinguishes the substance, and not just in rhetoric, is that the Moderates are very keen to remove the reinforcements of the A-Cash that the government has introduced. We have also proposed that they be extended in the same way as we want to extend business support. It's about the floor and the roof. But it is certainly not a priority and an important issue. It is clear that in a situation where a municipality and a region need to work actively to take care of these issues, it is not just a matter of leaving individuals in the lurch; it is also a matter of passing on costs to, for example, the municipalities for special assistance and other things if this becomes long-term. Nor is it anything that seems to bother the Moderates. Therein lies the greatest difference in our policy. In the case of aid granted to companies, the margin is adjusted. You don't have any more money in your budget for this. But when it comes to support for the unemployed, there is absolutely no answer.
